MOORES HILL, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2022-3-3, passed 3-1-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Moores Hill Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.
      (2)   These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only and
do not affect the meaning, application or construction of the law they precede.
      (3)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Dearborn County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Moores Hill, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Include printing, lithographing or other modes of representing
words and letters.
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.015   Open meetings
   
31.016   Executive sessions
   
31.017   Notice of meetings
   
31.018   Agenda
   
31.019   Record of meetings
   
31.020   Quorum
   
31.021   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.035   Presiding officer
   
31.036   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.037   Absence of President
   
31.038   Duties of the President
   
31.039   Duties of Council members
   
31.040   Seconding of motions required
   
31.041   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.042   Division of questions
   
31.043   Record of motions
   
31.044   Vote
   
31.045   Precedence of motion
   
31.046   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.047   Motion to adjourn
   
31.048   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.049   Motion to amend
   
31.050   Amendments
   
31.051   Reconsideration
   
31.052   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.053   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.054   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.055   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.070   Majority vote; when required
   
31.071   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.072   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.073   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Art. 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town, but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select 1 of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.015 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.016 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction including: a purchase; a lease as
lessor; a lease as lessee; a transfer; an exchange; or a sale; by the Town
Council up to the time a contract or option is executed by the parties. This
clause does not affect a political subdivision’s duty to comply with any other
statute that governs the conduct of the real property transaction, including
I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11; and
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   The Indiana White River State Park Development Commission;
         (h)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in Indiana;
or
         (i)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism; and
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B)(14).
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.019 of this chapter for memoranda and minutes being made available to the
public is modified as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes
must identify the subject matter considered by specific reference to the
enumerated instance or instances for which public notice was given. The Town
Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town
Council that no subject matter was discussed in the executive session other
than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.017 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council or, if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.018 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.019 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 of this chapter or any other statute that authorizes a governing
body to conduct a meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.020 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.021 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.035 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.036 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.037 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.038 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.039 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   (1)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair
and, if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state
his or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion.
      (2)   The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the
Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.040 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee
unless it be seconded.
   (B)   When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer
before debate.
§ 31.041 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.042 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.043 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.044 VOTE.
   (A)   (1)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all
ordinances and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or
for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in
all other cases at the request of any member of the Council.
      (2)   When the Clerk of Council has commenced to call the roll of the
Council for the taking of a vote by “Ayes” and “Nays”, all debate on the
question before the Council shall be deemed concluded, and during the taking of
the vote a member shall be permitted to briefly explain his or her vote and
shall respond to the calling of his or her name by the Clerk of Council by
answering “Aye” or “Nay”, as the case may be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay”.
   (C)   (1)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative
vote.
      (2)   Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise
provided by law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is
required to pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town
Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.045 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.046 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.047 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.048 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.049 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.050 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.051 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained,
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that, where a motion has received a
majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may
be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question
to be reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new
information is forthcoming and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.052 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.053 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed
to the Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the
meeting.
   (B)   The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the
material to the members of the Council.
§ 31.054 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.055 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.070 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.071 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds’ vote means at least a two-thirds’ vote
of all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds’ vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.072 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council.
      (2)   If required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution
must be promulgated or published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4 or
I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.073 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
Policies for Officers and Officials
   
32.40   Personnel policies
   
32.41   Credit card usage
   
32.42   Drug-free workplace
   
32.43   Nepotism
Department of Redevelopment; Commission
   
32.55   Opportunity
   
32.56   Establishment
   
32.57   Special taxing district
   
32.58   Members; terms
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Art. 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Council member, who shall assume
the duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana
Constitution Art. 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Council member serves as the
ex officio Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Council member:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Council member; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Council member may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-
1-7 with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state
to assist the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in
performing the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The agreement may not
last longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must
meet the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7.
   (D)   If an agreement cannot be reached under division (C) above, the Town
Council may enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The contract may not last longer than
the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction and detain
them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 of this chapter is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After 12-31-2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and active
deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town shall
replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
POLICIES FOR OFFICERS AND OFFICIALS
§ 32.40 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The town’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 6-7-17, passed 6-6-2017)
§ 32.41 CREDIT CARD USAGE.
   Town employees are authorized to use credit cards for town business in
accordance with the provisions of this section, as follows.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A CREDIT CARD is any card or devise that is issued to the town by a
credit company to enable town employees and officials to purchase, on credit,
any and all items, services or goods in the open market.
      (2)   Only the Town Council may authorize the issuance of a credit card
in the name of the town. Upon issuance, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
responsible for the authorization of a town employee’s use of a credit card
under this policy.
   (B)   Accounting system. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible to
maintain an accounting system or log for the use of credit cards which includes
the name of the employee, his or her position of employment, the estimated
amounts to be charged, the town fund and account number to be charged, the date
the credit card is issued and returned and any other details required by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The accounting system may be modified by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer from time to time as necessary.
   (C)   Purposes for credit cards. Town credit cards shall be used for
purchases relating to the performance of town business only. No personal use of
a town credit card is allowed, even if an employee offers to reimburse the town
for the employee’s personal use of a town credit card.
   (D)   Employee responsibility. The town employee utilizing a town credit
card is responsible to provide sufficient accounting information to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer so that expenditures from appropriations can be tracked to
provide timely and accurate accounting information for monitoring the
accounting system.
   (E)   Supporting documentation. Sufficient supporting documentation shall be
made available by the town employee to the Town Clerk-Treasurer so as to
approve claims for payment of credit card bills, such as paid bills and
receipts. Credit card statements or credit card slips alone are not sufficient
documentation. Said documentation shall be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer at a
place or by means designated by the Clerk-Treasurer within 72 hours of the
completion of the transaction.
   (F)   Annual fees. The Council hereby authorizes the town to incur an annual
fee for any credit card obtained by the Council, should such fee apply.
   (G)   Late payment fees. Any late payment fees of interest or penalties due
to late filing or furnishing of documentation by a town employee issued a
credit card shall be the responsibility of that employee and may be deducted
from that employees pay at the next pay period following the late fee charge.
(Ord. 2011-8-1, passed 8-2-2011)
§ 32.42 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Overview. The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards and to maintain public
confidence in the town and its employees. Since the town values each employee,
the town offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse
problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
812 and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15)
and prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a
licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee.
Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a
substance abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include, but are not limited to, marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and barbiturates.
Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over to the state
police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the town’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town; or
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2014-5-2, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 32.43 NEPOTISM.
   The Town Council now establishes a policy prohibiting nepotism as defined
herein, as follows.
   (A)   Employment of relatives in direct line of supervision prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a
position resulting in one relative being in a direct line of supervision of the
other relatives. Employment shall also include any individual who is a party to
an employment contract with the town.
      (2)   The term RELATIVE, includes any of the following: a spouse; a
parent or stepparent; a child or stepchild; a brother, sister, stepbrother or
stepsister; a niece or nephew; and aunt or uncle; a daughter-in-law or a son-
in-law.
      (3)   The phrase DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION means that an elected officer
or employee is in a position to affect the terms and conditions of an
individual’s employment, including, but not limited to, making decisions about
work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement and performance
evaluation.
   (B)   Exclusions.
      (1)   Individuals who were already employed by the town as of 7-1-2012,
are exempt from this policy unless the individual has a break of employment
with the unit.
      (2)   Decisions by the Town Council relative to the budget, the
implementation of salary ordinances or the implementation of personnel policies
are not subject to this policy.
      (3)   Individuals who hold only an elective office are not considered
employed for the purposes of this section.
      (4)   An employee is not in violation of this section if the employee is
already employed by the town on the date his or her relative assumes an elected
position; in such cases, the employee may keep his or her position; however,
the exempt employee may not thereafter be promoted to a new position.
   (C)   Policy with respect to contractors. The town may enter into a contract
or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a contract for
public work with an individual who is a relative of an elected official of the
town or with a business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative
of an elected official if:
      (1)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure, which
must:
         (a)   Describe in writing the contract or purchase to be made by the
unit;
         (b)   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
         (c)   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
         (d)   Be submitted to the Town Council prior to final action on the
contract; and
         (e)   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and with the Clerk of
the Circuit Court in the county where the unit takes final action on the
contract or purchase, and in the records of the Town Council.
      (2)   If the Town Council makes a certified statement:
         (a)   That the contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount
or price bid or offered; or
         (b)   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected and meets any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
      (3)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of I.C. 35-44.1-1-4, if applicable.
      (4)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the town
begins.
   (D)   Enforcement provisions.
      (1)   Each elected officeholder of the town shall certify annually, in
writing, subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer has not
violated this chapter. The annual certification shall be submitted to the Town
Council president on or before December 31 of each year.
      (2)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation
and may result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a
transfer from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An
elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate
with the implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications
of the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
      (3)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in a prominent
place at Town Hall;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to all employees and elected
officials; and
         (c)   Two copies of this section shall also be maintained and on file
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection,
(Ord. 2014-12-31-15, passed 12-2-2014)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; COMMISSION
§ 32.55 OPPORTUNITY.
   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town and its
citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation, redevelopment and/
or economic development of areas by private enterprise and the town by
establishing a department of redevelopment.
(Ord. 2014-7-1, passed 7-1-2014)
§ 32.56 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council hereby establishes a department of redevelopment to be
known as the “Moores Hill Redevelopment Commission” to be controlled by a board
of five members (the “Redevelopment Commission”) and a non-voting advisor, who
shall also be a member of the school board of a school corporation that
includes all or part of the town.
(Ord. 2014-7-1, passed 7-1-2014)
§ 32.57 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to the act, all of the territory within the corporate boundaries of
the town will constitute a special taxing district to be known as the “Town of
Moores Hill Redevelopment District” (the “Redevelopment District”) for the
purpose of levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment and
economic development purposes as provided in the act. The Town Council finds
and determines that all of the taxable property within the Redevelopment
District will be considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and
economic development projects carried out under the act to the extent of the
special taxes levied under the act.
(Ord. 2014-7-1, passed 7-1-2014)
§ 32.58 MEMBERS; TERMS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the act, the Town Council shall appoint the five members
of the Redevelopment Commission. A non-voting advisor is not a member of the
Redevelopment Commission as such, but is entitled to attend and participate in
the proceedings of all meetings of the Redevelopment Commission. The position
is otherwise governed by the terms of I.C. 36-7-14-6.1(a).
   (B)   Members of the Redevelopment Commission shall be at least 18 years of
age and must be residents of the town. Members shall take and subscribe an oath
of office before beginning the duties thereof and shall execute a bond as set
forth in I.C. 36-7-14-7.
   (C)   The term of office of the original members of the Redevelopment
Commission, and of the ex officio advisor shall commence from the date of their
appointment and expire on 1-1-2015. Thereafter, Redevelopment Commission
members and the ex-officio shall serve one-year terms. The term of office of
the non-voting advisor is two years, and shall expire on 1-1-2016. Regular
members and the non-voting advisor serve at the pleasure of the appointing
authority.
(Ord. 2014-7-1, passed 7-1-2014)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Town Fees and Policies
   
33.35   Materiality threshold
   
33.36   Copy fees for public access documents
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town moneys may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06 of this chapter, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a
claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06 of this chapter, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be
issued only if the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.20 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before 1-1-2015) and before the submission of notice
of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall formulate a
budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following manner, unless the
town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
§ 33.21 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.22 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
TOWN FEES AND POLICIES
§ 33.35 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The materiality threshold for the town shall be $100. If the erroneous
or irregular variance, loss, shortage and/or theft is not cash or a cash-
equivalent, the value of the item at the time of the variance, loss, shortage
and/or theft shall be used to determine whether the materiality threshold has
been met.
   (B)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses and shortages of $100 or
more shall be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts (“SBOA”). In
addition, all erroneous or irregular variances, losses and shortages which
occur more than one time in a month and which in the aggregate total $100 or
more shall be reported immediately to the SBOA.
   (C)   A public officer who has knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe
that there has been a misappropriation of public funds or assets of the public
office, regardless of the amount, shall immediately send written notice of the
misappropriation to the SBOA and the County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (D)   The town shall maintain records and documentation concerning erroneous
or irregular variances, losses and shortages in accordance with generally-
accepted accounting principles and the internal control standards provided by
the SBOA.
   (E)   The town shall investigate all erroneous or irregular variances,
losses, shortages and/or thefts, regardless of whether they meet the
materiality threshold established by this policy. Upon conclusion of each such
investigation, the town shall:
      (1)   Implement procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of such
incidents; and
      (2)   Take appropriate disciplinary action as necessary against the
employee responsible for the incident.
(Ord. 2016-6-2, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 33.36 COPY FEES FOR PUBLIC ACCESS DOCUMENTS.
   The town may establish a fee schedule for copy costs regarding public access
records at a charge of $0.10 per black and white copy and $0.25 per color copy
for all approved requested material; the fee for certification of documents may
not exceed $5 per document; person(s) making an inspection or copy request for
public records must fill out and submit a town request for public records form
to the Clerk- Treasurer; the town may request advance payment for cost of
requested copies, and all requests for approved records shall be produced in a
reasonable amount of time.
(Ord. 2012-4-1, passed 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Use of Town Hall for civic events
§ 34.01 USE OF TOWN HALL FOR CIVIC EVENTS.
   (A)   The Moores Hill Senior Nutrition Activity Center may continue to use
the hall for its own functions at no cost Monday through Friday of every week
from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., pursuant to the following policy and rules:
      (1)   Treat other participants, volunteers and staff respectfully and
courteously;
      (2)   Have personal cleanliness and proper hygiene;
      (3)   Participants and volunteers will not:
         (a)   Use loud, disruptive, obscene, hateful or abusive language;
         (b)   Make threats or demonstrate threatening behavior, verbally or in
writing, or have a physical altercation with other participants, volunteers or
staff;
         (c)   Make any racial, religious or sexual comments of any kind;
         (d)   Attend the nutrition activity center while under the adverse
influence of alcohol or drugs;
         (e)   Possess a weapon while attending the nutrition activity center;
         (f)   Commit or attempt to commit any activity that would constitute a
violation of any federal, state or local criminal statute or ordinance;
         (g)   Town management reserves the right to dismiss anyone from the
premises for non- compliance to the policies; and
         (h)   Violation of this section may result in suspension of Town Hall
privileges.
   (B)   All other usage of the Town Hall shall be approved by the Clerk-
Treasurer pursuant to the following policy and rules.
      (1)   Reservations. Reservations are on a first come, first serve basis.
Reservations for such entities must disclose their “group name” or event at the
time of reservation. A reservation is defined as confirmed upon receipt pf
payment and completion of use agreement.
      (2)   Rental fees. Rental of the hall is established at $55 per day. A
deposit in the amount of $50 shall also be charged, covering the first day’s
rent and additional costs for damage, clean-up and the like, if necessary.
Assuming no damages occur, up to $50 of the deposit may be returned within
seven days of the end of the lease date upon proper inspection and approval by
a representative designated by the Town Council Rental fees may be waived at
the discretion of Council for not for profit groups.
      (3)   Usage hours. The Town Hall may be used by groups other than the
seniors from the hours of 8:00 a.m. to midnight on weekends and holidays and
from 3:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. on weekdays.
      (4)   Refunds. Refunds will be issued upon cancellation.
      (5)   Town Hall rules.
         (a)   No nails, tacks or staples are to be used. Town Hall usage is
limited to the kitchen, main hall restrooms only. The town will provide no
equipment or tools of any kind.
         (b)   All tables, chairs and decorations are to be returned to their
original positions, all trash is to be picked up and thrown away and taken with
the group none is to be left at the Town Hall. Large groups are advised to
bring additional bags to contain excess trash.
         (c)   All banners and decorations are to be taken down at the end of
the reservation.
         (d)   The hall should be left in the same condition as it is found.
         (e)   Absolutely no parking, driving or unloading on the grass.
         (f)   No solicitation is permitted.
         (g)   Town management reserves the right to dismiss anyone from the
premises for non- compliance to the policies.
         (h)   The Town Hall is a tobacco, alcohol and drug free environment.
         (i)   Deadly weapons are prohibited.
         (j)   No access to the basement of the Town Hall is permitted at any
time.
         (k)   Person signing the rental agreement are absolutely liable for
any and all damage and cost of repair of same in the Town Hall and shall sign
an undertaking acknowledging this.
      (6)   Violation. Violation of this section may result in suspension of
Town Hall privileges, the forfeiture of deposit and the assessment of any
damages for repairs.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.02   Past-due payments for town work
   
50.03   Uncollectable accounts; refunds
§ 50.01 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for non-payment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
§ 50.02 PAST-DUE PAYMENTS FOR TOWN WORK.
   (A)   Invoices issued for work performed, materials purchased, the use of
equipment and other authorized charges by town employees pursuant to the
authority of any town ordinance are due and payable within 30 days of date of
issuance.
   (B)   Failure to pay within 30 days will result in a penalty of 10% being
added to the bill total.
   (C)   Additionally, invoices issued by the town related to work performed,
materials, equipment use and other authorized charges pursuant to ordinance
shall accrue interest at the rate of 10% per annum. These additional penalties
and interest charges shall be added onto the past due bill and charged to the
customer.
(Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 50.03 UNCOLLECTABLE ACCOUNTS; REFUNDS.
   (A)   Once the Town Council approves the uncollectible list, the Utility
Clerk will make the appropriate entries to write-off the uncollectible
receivable balance by using the direct write-off method. The direct write-off
method results in the write-off of a utility bill directly to accounts
receivable when deemed to be uncollectible.
   (B)   Accounts that have had a write-off will be flagged as having had an
uncollectible balance in the past. Any future transactions for those account
holders will be denied until the uncollectible balance is paid in full.
However, this provision will not apply if the debt is fully discharged in
bankruptcy.
   (C)   No refund of utility billing or deposits will be issued for less than
$2. The utility will post this as miscellaneous revenue.
(Ord. 2012-9-2, passed 9-4-2012)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
51.01   Container specifications
   
51.02   Garbage placement; leaking
   
51.03   Removal of lid
   
51.04   Recycling containers
   
51.05   Hazardous waste
§ 51.01 CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any garbage to be picked up and disposed of shall be placed in non-
leaking metal or plastic containers with tight-fitting lids.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any trash, rubbish or
other materials, excluding garbage, upon any town street, alley or other public
way for collection and disposal, unless such trash, rubbish and other materials
are contained in a suitable and durable sack or bag or box or other container
securely tied closed at the time such container is placed for such collection
and disposal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any garbage can or
garbage container in or upon any town street, alley or other public way for
collection of garbage or other wastes therefrom, unless such can or garbage
container has a tight fitting and properly workable lid over the mouth or
opening of such can or container and weighs less than 50 pounds’ gross. Any
can, box, sack, bag or other container, weighing more than 50 pounds’ gross and
placed for pick up and disposal of the contents thereof may be refused and
passed over.
(Ord. 2008-, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 GARBAGE PLACEMENT; LEAKING.
   Any garbage can or other garbage container, which leaks or does not have a
tight-fitting lid, when emptied into any collection truck may be confiscated
and hauled away as a public nuisance without any liability to the owner
thereof.
(Ord. 2008-, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 REMOVAL OF LID.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the lid from or uncover any
can or container or to open or untie any sack or bag or box or other container
while such can, container, sack or bag or box or other container is positioned
upon a town street, alley or other public way awaiting collection or disposal.
(Ord. 2008-, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   It is hereby resolved by the Town Council that the County Solid Waste
Management District is hereby authorized to place two recycling containers, to
be provided by Rumpke, on property which it owns or has a right to utilize and
further agrees to keep the area surrounding such containers clean and picked up
through the use of its own personnel.
(Ord. 2008-, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 51.05 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The town will not accept hazardous waste which includes any solid waste
that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may:
   (A)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
   (B)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or
otherwise managed.
(Ord. 2008-, passed 7-7-2008)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
Design and Construction of Wastewater Collection Systems
   
52.01   Applicability
   
52.02   Authorization to connect
   
52.03   Unauthorized discharges
   
52.04   Public system required
   
52.05   References to other regulations
   
52.06   Reimbursement agreements
   
52.07   Separability
   
52.08   Appeals
   
52.09   Definitions
   
52.10   Design requirements
   
52.11   Plans and approvals
   
52.12   Construction and inspection
   
52.13   Acceptance of completed system
Connection to and Use of Sewers and Drains
   
52.25   Definitions
   
52.26   Deposits and discharges
   
52.27   Connections required
   
52.28   Installation and connection; fees, rates and charges; late payments
   
52.29   Prohibited discharges
   
52.30   Fats, oil, grease and sand
   
52.31   Pretreatment of wastes
   
52.32   State and federal requirements
   
52.33   Damaging facilities
   
52.34   Inspections; enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General utility provisions, see
Ch. 50
   Utility and Public Works Construction in Rights-of-Way and Easements, see §§
93.35 through
93.48
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEMS
§ 52.01 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to any wastewater collection system that is to
be connected directly or indirectly to the wastewater collection and treatment
system of the town.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.02 AUTHORIZATION TO CONNECT.
   No extension of or connection to a sanitary sewer main belonging to the town
shall be made unless it has been approved in accordance with the requirements
in this subchapter and §§
52.25 through
52.34 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES.
   No sanitary sewer system or service lateral shall discharge into the
wastewater collection and treatment system of the town unless it has first been
approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All parts of any wastewater collection system that is to be connected
directly or indirectly into the wastewater collection and treatment system of
the town shall be owned and maintained by the town; except, however, that, each
individual service lateral and any other pipes or devices that are used only
for sanitary sewer service to a particular property shall be owned and
maintained by the owner of the property that is served by the service lateral
and/or devices.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.05 REFERENCES TO OTHER REGULATIONS.
   All references to regulations, standards, codes, ordinances, statutes or
other citations shall mean the most recent version thereof, including all
amendments or replacement.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.06 REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Where a sanitary sewer main that was extended by a developer in
accordance with this subchapter also permits a service lateral connection by a
party that was not a participant in the construction of that main, the Town
Council and developer may enter into an agreement concerning the reimbursement
of a pro rata share of the expenses incurred by the developer in the
installation of that main.
   (B)   The agreement must comply with the following.
      (1)   The agreement can only apply to service lateral connections made
directly into the main installed by the developer and cannot apply to indirect
connections or to extensions of the main.
      (2)   The developer must determine the total number of potential service
lateral connections, including the developer’s connections, that can be made
directly into the main, and the true and actual cost of the main extension,
which shall be certified by a professional engineer.
      (3)   A pro rata share shall be determined by dividing the true and
actual cost of the installation by the total number of potential service
lateral connections.
      (4)   The total amount of the reimbursement cannot exceed the true and
actual cost of the installation minus the developer’s pro rata shares.
      (5)   The term of the agreement shall not exceed 15 years from the date
of acceptance of the system by the town, after which no reimbursements will be
made.
      (6)   The town will collect the special assessment in addition to other
fees and shall reimburse special assessments to the developer on a quarterly
basis.
      (7)   The basis for reimbursement and the form of agreement must be
approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   An agreement under this section cannot be used where the requirements
under I.C. 36-9-22-2(b) apply.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.07 SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any provision shall not affect the validity of the remainder.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.08 APPEALS.
   An appeal of the terms of this subchapter must be addressed in writing to
the Town Council and delivered to the Council for its review at least 30 days
or more prior to the date on which the matter will be considered at a public
meeting. Except where specified elsewhere in this subchapter, each appeal must
state in detail the hardship that is or will be endured by the developer in
complying with the terms of this subchapter, and the minimum level of relief
that is necessary in order to abate the hardship. Financial considerations do
not constitute hardship.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The elected Town Council of the Town of Moores Hill, Indiana.
   DESIGN ENGINEER. A professional engineer trained and licensed to prepare and
certify wastewater collection and treatment systems in the state.
   DEVELOPER. The person or organization requesting authorization to extend the
sanitary sewer services of the town to specific property.
   EASEMENT. The right to use real property owned by others for a specific
purpose.
   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
   PUMPING STATION. A component of a force main system that provides pressure
to pump wastewater to a higher elevation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The strip of land on which is located a public road or alley.
   SERVICE LATERAL. All pipes, pumps and other devices that are required to
connect a building to a sanitary sewer main, including the point of connection
to the sanitary sewer main and all components between the point of connection
and the building served by the lateral.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The appointed Sewer Superintendent of the Town of Moores
Hill or the Superintendent’s designated representative.
   TEN STATES STANDARDS. The most recent edition of Recommended Standards for
Wastewater Facilities - 1997 Edition, as may be from time to time amended or
replaced, of the Great Lakes - Upper Mississippi River Board of State and
Provincial Public Health and Environmental Managers, published by Health
Education Services, a division of Health Research, Inc., P.O. Box 7126, Albany,
NY 12224.
   TOWN. The Town of Moores Hill, Indiana.
   WASTEWATER. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from
residential, commercial and industrial buildings, plants and institutions that
are discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities, polluted
cooling water and industrial process water from pre-treatment facilities.
   WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A sewer whose main purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.10 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Design and installation costs. Except where noted in this subchapter,
the developer shall be responsible for payment of all expenses related to
design, permitting, licensing, installation, testing and certification of the
sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer main extension policy. Each sanitary sewer main
extension shall be installed across the entire frontage and to the most distant
property line of the properties to be served in order to permit future
extensions of the main to additional properties beyond those currently proposed
to be served. The Town Council may modify or waive this requirement upon a
finding that there is no potential for the main to be extended to additional
properties.
   (C)   Minimum design standards. Each wastewater collection system shall be
designed and constructed by the developer in accordance with applicable
federal, state and town regulations. Where specific guidance for the design of
a proposed system is not provided in this subchapter or another town ordinance,
or in any federal or state regulations, the standards in the most recent
edition of the Recommended Standards for Wastewater Facilities (“Ten States
Standards”) shall be utilized.
   (D)   Treatment capacity. The Town Council shall determine whether the
town’s wastewater collection and treatment system has sufficient capacity to
transport and treat the effluent of a proposed system in accordance with the
requirements in §§
52.25 through
52.34 of this chapter.
   (E)   Minimum system requirements. The system shall be designed to
accommodate the estimated wastewater requirements for the project to be served
based on the estimate of a licensed professional engineer, which estimated
requirements shall be approved by the Town Council.
   (F)   Additional system requirements. At its option, the Town Council may
require the developer to install pipes and other components of greater capacity
or different design in order to accommodate additional future users of the
system. The town shall directly reimburse or enter into an agreement to
reimburse the developer for the additional cost of the materials required to
facilitate the higher-capacity design. The difference in costs shall be based
on the difference between the design engineer’s estimated cost for the
materials required for the proposed system, and the design engineer’s estimated
cost for the materials required for the higher-capacity system. The town will
not pay additional engineering or installation costs.
   (G)   Design exceptions. Where the design engineer certifies that a
particular element of a proposed design is equivalent to or superior to the
requirements of this subchapter, the Town Council may, at its option, approve
the proposed alternate design.
   (H)   Interconnection with other systems. There shall be no interconnection
between the proposed wastewater collection system and any other system that
conveys unpolluted waters or waters identified in §
52.26 of this chapter.
   (I)   Gravity and force main systems. Gravity mains shall be installed
wherever the combination of slope and pipe cover satisfies the standards of the
Ten States Standards. Pump stations and force mains will be installed only
where gravity mains cannot be installed, and only for the minimum distance
necessary to continue the project with a gravity main system.
   (J)   Service lateral restrictions. Service laterals shall be installed as
nearly as possible at a 90-degree angle to the main into which the lateral is
to connect. Where a sanitary sewer main can be extended and can then serve more
than one property or can serve potential future development, service laterals
shall not be permitted to cross other property, and shall not be installed
along the length or run of an easement or right-of-way for access to a more
distant sanitary sewer main instead of extending a sewer main to serve that
property. The requirement to extend a main may be waived only upon a finding by
the Town Council that the extended sewer main will have no potential for
serving any existing or future users of the system, except the single lateral
that is at present to be connected to the system. Under no circumstances may a
service lateral be shared by separate structures, except as provided in §§
52.25 through
52.34 of this chapter.
   (K)   Supplemental design requirements. The following requirements are
supplemental to or supersede those in the Ten States Standards.
      (1)   Gravity pipes. All mains and laterals shall be a minimum of SDR 35
PVC pipe conforming to ASTM D-3034. All joints shall conform to ASTM D-3212.
Mains shall be not less than eight-inch diameter. Service laterals shall be not
less than six-inch diameter between the sanitary sewer main and the property
line of the property served by the lateral, and not less than four-inch
diameter between the property line and the structure being served.
      (2)   Force main pipes. All mains shall be a minimum of SDR 21 PVC pipe
conforming to ASTM D-2241. All joints shall conform to ASTM D-3139. The
diameter shall be consistent with the maximum projected capacity of the system
as estimated by the design engineer and shall be approved by the Town Council.
      (3)   Infiltration. The maximum allowable ground water infiltration rate
into the completed system shall not exceed 200 gallons per inch diameter of
pipe per mile of pipe per day.
      (4)   Pump stations. Wherever a pump station is required in a collection
system, the developer shall install a duplex pumping station with force main,
electric service and all other devices required to adequately serve the design
estimated load, and the pump station must comply with the following.
         (a)   The well shall be pre-cast concrete conforming to ASTM C-478.
         (b)   Pumps within a pump station shall be of the same model.
         (c)   Air release valves shall be installed at all high points in
force mains between pump stations and between pump stations and manholes.
         (d)   Exterior surfaces of the well shall be coated with a bituminous
water-proofing material. Where factory bituminous coating has been damaged, it
shall be field repaired using the same material and in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations, prior to any backfilling operation.
         (e)   All buried force main pipes shall have a minimum of four feet of
backfill cover.
      (5)   Manholes. All manholes shall comply with the following minimum
requirements.
         (a)   Manholes shall be pre-cast concrete, not less than 48 inches in
diameter with a 22-inch diameter access.
         (b)   Castings shall be watertight “Class A” type with a solid lid.
Gray cast iron shall conform to ASTM A-48 and ductile cast iron shall conform
to ASTM A-536.
         (c)   Pipe connectors shall be resilient type conforming to ASTM C-923
between the reinforced concrete manhole structure and all pipes into and/or out
of the manhole.
         (d)   Joints shall be tongue-and-groove with flexible rubber gaskets
conforming to ASTM C-443. “Cretex” or equivalent seals shall be installed
between the manhole frame and the cone section where manholes are to be located
in areas determined by the Town Council to be water-prone areas.
         (e)   Steps shall be approved cast-in-place non-corrosive fiberglass
material conforming to ASTM A-48.
         (f)   Exterior surfaces shall be coated with a bituminous water-
proofing material. Where factory bituminous coating has been damaged it shall
be field repaired using the same material and in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations, prior to any backfilling operation.
         (g)   Lift holes in pre-cast sections shall be filled with non-
shrinking concrete grout. When cured, grouted lift holes, casting grout and
adjusting rings and grout shall be coated with bituminous water-proofing
material to ensure a water-tight manhole structure.
      (6)   Clean-outs. On all service laterals that are more than ten feet
long, the developer shall install clean-outs in the following locations: not
more than five feet from the wall of the building where the service lateral
exits the building; every 150 feet between the wall of the building and the
sanitary sewer main; and at each 90-degree turn in the lateral.
      (7)   System testing. The developer shall conduct the following tests,
which shall be witnessed by a representative of the town and by the developer’s
engineer.
         (a)   System air testing shall be in accordance with ASTM F-1417 for
plastic pipe.
         (b)   Manhole negative air pressure (vacuum) testing shall be in
accordance with ASTM C-1244.
         (c)   Deflection testing shall be conducted not less than 30 days
following completion of the installation using a “go/no-go” mandrel in
accordance with the requirements in the Ten States Standards. Maximum
deflection shall not exceed 5%. Any section of pipe not passing the deflection
test shall be repaired or replaced, then retested 30 days or more after repair
or replacement, and before acceptance of the project by the town.
         (d)   Hydrostatic testing of force mains shall be in accordance with
state regulations.
      (8)   Service lateral markers. The developer shall mark the location of
each service lateral at the property line using a one-inch diameter PVC pipe
set vertically and painted green.
      (9)   Tracing wire. Tracing wire shall be installed along all non-
metallic force mains.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.11 PLANS AND APPROVALS.
   (A)   Preparation of plans. The developer shall have a complete set of plans
and specifications for the wastewater system prepared and certified by a
professional engineer licensed to prepare such plans in the state. All plans
shall be prepared in 24-inch by 36-inch size and shall include plan, profile
and detail sheets, and design and materials specifications.
   (B)   Rights-of-way and easements. All components of a wastewater collection
system that will be owned and/or maintained by the town shall be installed in
either dedicated public rights-of-way or dedicated public utility easements, at
the option of the Town Council. Right-of-way width shall comply with the town’s
street design and construction standards. Easement width shall be not less than
20 feet. All public rights-of-way and public utility easements shall be shown
on a plat or described in a deed of dedication in the name of the town, and the
plat or deed shall have been recorded by the developer in the office of the
County Recorder prior to acceptance of the system by the town.
   (C)   Approvals, permits and licenses. The design engineer shall obtain all
design and construction approvals, permits and licenses required by federal,
state or local agencies for the design and the construction work, including a
permit from the State Department of Environmental Management [“IDEM”]. Plans
that require only the approval of the town shall be reviewed and approved by
the town’s Sewer Superintendent or another person or party designated by the
Town Council. In all cases, certified plans, specifications, permits and
licenses shall be submitted to and approved by the Town Council prior to the
start of construction.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.12 CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Construction standards. The developer shall construct the new system
in accordance with the plans approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   Change orders. All modifications or changes to the system shall be
approved by the Town Council prior to being installed or implemented.
   (C)   Construction inspection. The developer shall provide professional
inspection services under the management of a professional engineer to ensure
compliance with the approved plans. The town may at its option and expense also
provide inspection services, and the developer shall accommodate and assist the
town’s inspector without cost to the town.
   (D)   Construction certification. The developer shall obtain the
certification of a professional engineer that the completed system was
constructed in accordance with the approved plans and any amendments to the
plans that were approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.13 ACCEPTANCE OF COMPLETED SYSTEM.
   (A)   Superintendent’s approval. The Sewer Superintendent shall review and
approve the installation and tests, after which the developer may request Town
Council approval.
   (B)   Maintenance guarantee. All materials and workmanship shall be
guaranteed by the developer for three years after the date of acceptance of the
project by the Town Council. The guarantee shall be accompanied by surety in
the amount of 10% of the actual cost of the project including all design, labor
and materials costs, which actual cost shall be certified by the developer’s
professional engineer. The form of the surety shall be a bond issued by an
agency licensed to bond in the state, or a letter of credit issued by a
financial institution licensed to do business in the state. The guarantee and
surety shall be approved by the Town Council prior to acceptance of the
project.
   (C)   As-built drawings. The developer’s engineer shall prepare a complete
set of drawings that show the wastewater collection system both as it was
designed and as it was constructed, including the locations of service lateral
taps. The as-built drawings shall be approved by the Town Council prior to the
Council’s acceptance of the system for ownership and/or maintenance. After
Council approval, the developer shall provide the town with one complete set of
reproducible as-built prints and two complete sets of paper prints, together
with two copies of the specifications and other documentation of the as-built
system.
   (D)   Town Council approval. After receiving the Sewer Superintendent’s
approval, the engineer’s itemized list of actual costs and the maintenance
guarantee, the Council shall review the as-built drawings, related documents,
guarantee and the installation of the system. If satisfactory, the Council
shall accept the system into the town’s ownership and maintenance program and
shall thereafter treat the effluent of the system at the town’s wastewater
treatment facility.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 10-7-2002)
CONNECTION TO AND USE OF SEWERS AND DRAINS
§ 52.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water
or other clear water drainage only.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER - STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water
or other clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial
degree is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRINDER PUMP AND STATION. The pump station so designed to shred and pump
domestic sewage from source to collection main in low pressure collection
system.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTES. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections from
storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NH3N. The same as Ammonia Nitrogen measured as Nitrogen. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standards Methods, as defined below.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewater to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PHOSPHORUS or P. The chemical element phosphorus.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharge.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at which
wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including polluted
cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect and
transport domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
Wastewater, prepared by and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, subsurface water or
unpolluted water from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes
are not intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works, and/or of
the municipal wastewater treatment facilities, regardless of their official
designation, of the town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedures.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500 (as
amended).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CONNECTION. The sewage piping (four-inch PVC, SDR 35) from house sewer
effluent line (upstream from septic tank) to four-inch PVC inlet pipe at
terminal point about 48 inches from grinder pump station.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 52.26 DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water, ground
water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or
storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains and the sewage treatment plant including capacity for BOD
and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, and abutting on any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be
located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice
to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property
line. As a condition of connection to a public sewer, the owner shall grant a
right of access easement to the town for the purpose of inspection and
maintenance, including, but not limited to, repair and replacement, of the
building sewer and the grinder pump station.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided herein, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this subchapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and treated as required by the County Board of Health.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (C)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and any private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and treated as required by the County Board of
Health.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Officer.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION; FEES, RATES AND CHARGES; LATE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
      (2)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner in accordance with
the town’s Ordinance Establishing a Schedule of Rates and Charges. The owner
shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (3)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except:
         (a)   Where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no independent sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building, except
where said building is a business or dwelling then all of the following must be
met:
            1.   There is paid a separate tap fee;
            2.   There is a separate bill for the second building based on
usage;
            3.   The lot is under common ownership; and
            4.   The connection meets are utility requirements and is approved
by the Utility Superintendent.
         (b)   Where multiple facilities under common ownership are determined
in the best interests of the utility to require a modification of the single
building sewer requirement.
      (4)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to
meet all requirements of this subchapter.
      (5)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and back-filling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town or county, as applicable. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C. Manual of Practice No. FD-5 shall
apply.
      (6)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the house sewer drain, In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      (7)   No person shall make connection of any roof downspout, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, basement or yard drains or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
Any such connection to a private sewage disposal system which existed prior to
the availability of public sewers shall be removed from the building sewer
prior to connection with the public sewer.
      (8)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or county, as applicable, or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the
W.P.C. Manual of Practice No. FD-5. All such connections shall be made gas-
tight and water-tight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
      (9)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer after the original project is complete. The connection and
testing shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent or his or her
representative. The applicant shall provide access to all structures (and areas
of structures) to the Superintendent or his or her representative for the
purpose of establishing compliance with this subchapter.
      (10)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (B)   If fees assessed against real property regarding municipal sewage
works are not paid within the time fixed by the municipal legislative body,
they are delinquent. A penalty of 10% of the amount of fees attaches to the
delinquent fees. The amount of the fee, the penalty, and a reasonable
attorney’s fee may be recovered by the board in a civil action in the name of
the town as stated in I.C. 36-9-23-31. Bills for sewer service will be rendered
monthly. Sewer utility bills which remain unpaid for a period of more than 17
days following the mailing of the bill by the town shall be delinquent, and a
late payment charge in the amount of 10% shall be added to the bill and owed by
the customer.
   (C)   (1)   The rates and charges for the sewage works as set forth in prior
ordinance are hereby amended, and the following amended rates and charges are
hereby adopted.
         (a)   Flat monthly charges are as follows:
Flat Monthly Charges Phase 1 Rates Phase 2 Rates
Flat Monthly Charges             Phase 1 Rates Phase 2 Rates
Residential
Flat rate single-family unit     $65.28        $75.73
Two-unit                         $130.56       $151.47
Five-unit                        $326.40       $378.67
55-unit                          $3,590.40     $4,165.40
Commercial /Nonprofit
Commercial or nonprofit business $71.88        $83.39
Laundromat                       $207.72       $240.99
Government
Government Town Hall             $65.28        $75.73
Firehouse                        $65.28        $75.73
School
South Dearborn School Corp       $997.20       $1,156.90
 
         (b)   Nonrecurring charges are as follows:
 
Nonrecurring Charges                 Phase 1 Rates Phase 2 Rates
Tap fee for sewer
Per residential connection           $1,650        $1,650
Per nonresidential connection        Actual cost of making the connection,
                                     but not less than $1,650
Returned check charge                $20 plus bank fee
Late charge penalty
All bills 30 days or more delinquent 10% of bill
 
      (2)   The Phase One rates in division (C)(1) above shall be in full force
as soon as practicable after their passage by the Town Council. The Phase Two
rates shall become effective for billing in the thirteenth month after Phase
One rates were billed.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to disconnect a customer for nonpayment
of service to the customer’s property.
      (4)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances that conflict with the
provisions of this division (C) are hereby repealed.
   (D)   (1)   All inhabitants in and around the town wishing to connect to the
sewage works, or to reinstate services previously terminated, shall pay a
deposit equal to twice the flat monthly fee applicable to the lot in question
as set forth in division (C)(1)(a) above, as currently constituted and as
amended from time to time.
      (2)   Said deposit shall be payable prior to connection to the sewage
works.
      (3)   Said deposit may, in the discretion of the Town Council, be applied
to past bills or to damages to the sewage works caused by the owner of the lot,
or by the owner’s invitees, licensees or renters.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000; Ord. 2010-1, passed 3-2-2010; Ord. 2010-3,
passed 5-20-2010; Ord. 2012-4-4, passed 4-3-2012; Ord. 2013-2-1, passed 2-5-
2013; Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-5-2021; Ord. 2022-3-3, passed 3-1-2022)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic (as described in § 307(a)
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)) or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant or cause the town to
violate in any manner its NPDES permit;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (f)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
         (h)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
         (i)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non- biodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil
origin;
         (j)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils,
fats or grease;
         (k)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug”, as defined herein;
         (l)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions); and/or
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (m)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the sewage treatment works exceeds the
limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (n)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
         (o)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, from suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes; and
         (p)   Any water or wastes subject to the categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. part 403 (and the like).
      (2)   (a)   If any wastes or waters are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in this division (A) and which, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
            1.   Require any industries to submit information on wastewater
quantities and characteristics and obtain prior approval for discharges;
            2.   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
            3.   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage, as defined herein;
            4.   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
            5.   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
         (b)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
      (3)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
      (4)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies and the U. S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
      (5)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer service to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter. These
requirements may include:
         (a)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
         (b)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;
         (c)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
         (d)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil,
solvent or other materials important to sewer use control;
         (e)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
         (f)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
         (g)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of
materials through spills to the municipal sewers.
   (B)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall not be discharged into the town’s sewer system.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 FATS, OIL, GREASE AND SAND.
   (A)   (1)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable waste,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptor shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
town and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection.
      (3)   All interceptors shall be in accordance with the state’s Building
Codes and most recent amendments.
   (B)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature and they shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and
equipped with easily removable covers, which when bolted in place shall be gas-
tight and water-tight.
   (C)   Where installed, all fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (D)   Town employees, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall
be permitted to enter all properties, for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing; provided, however, entry shall
be at reasonable times after reasonable notice, giving appropriate
consideration to the urgency of the circumstances. While performing the
necessary work on private properties referenced above, the Superintendent or
duly authorized employee of the town shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the private
(Ord. 2008-, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 PRETREATMENT OF WASTES.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) (40 C.F.R. part 403), and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants” (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent
requirements established by the town and any subsequent state or federal
guidelines and rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 52.32 STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information to relating
to pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the
town and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval
in writing is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against the town’s monitoring records.
   (B)   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply
with any applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be
in effect.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 52.33 DAMAGING FACILITIES.
   No unauthorized persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34 INSPECTIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
      (2)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in this subchapter, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in this subchapter.
      (3)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (B)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town after approved by
the Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Superintendent
of the sewage system to the Town Council, whose decision may be appealed to a
court of competent jurisdiction under the appeal procedures provided for in the
state’s Administrative Adjudication Act, being I.C. 4-21.5.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.25 through
52.34 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory corrections thereof. The offender shall, immediately and
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation (other than a violation
of §
52.26(B) of this chapter) beyond the time limit provided for in division (B)(1)
above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.34 of this chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
      (4)   (a)   To be eligible to tap into the sewer system the property must
be in the town limits. No exceptions will be made. All structure now hooked up
outside the town limits will be grandfathered.
         (b)   No new taps will be permitted into the sewer line without
approval from the Town Council. The person requesting the tap will be required
to have a permit signed by the Town Council.
         (c)   Any sewer installation or connection without said permit shall
carry a daily fine of $500 until such permit is obtained.
         (d)   Any line installed without proper inspection by the town
inspector will carry a daily fine of $50 until the line is dug up and inspected
according to the above person’s expense.
         (e)   Sewer line size and quality will be according to Town Council
approval.
         (f)   Any infiltration or inflow of an individual sewer line will need
to be corrected. The Town Council will give 60 days to repair (weather
permitting) with a daily fine of $50 thereafter until the problem is corrected.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-3-2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem- wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   (a)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart,
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
         (b)   If the intersecting highway also includes two roadways at least
30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter or an electric personal
assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, I.C. 9-
13-2-77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle or a motor-driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle
or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   (a)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
         (b)   The term does not include the sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even
if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by persons riding bicycles or other
human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; and
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic-control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform
and, as far as possible, shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Gross vehicle weight
Cruising
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Cruising prohibited
   
71.17   Posting of signs
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   No person owning, leasing, possessing or operating a truck, trailer, tractor
or semi-tractor and trailer, boat, boat trailer, recreational vehicle, self-
contained camper, motor home, van and car carrier (or any vehicle with a gross
vehicle weight exceeding 16,000 pounds) taller, wider and longer than a
conventional passenger automobile or station wagon, or pick-up truck as
originally equipped from the manufacturer, shall be permitted to park the same
on any street or alley within the town’s corporate limits, accepting that such
vehicles may park for sufficient time to make deliveries or pick up
merchandise, wares, goods, chattels and supplies; provided, such parking does
not interrupt the regular flow of traffic and does not create a hazard for the
safety of others.
(Ord. 2013-2-2, passed 2-5-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic-control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.16 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising, as defined in this subchapter, on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic-
control point within the next succeeding 4 hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
   
72.05   Obstructing sidewalks
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-18.5-8 or the laws of another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.05 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to park motor vehicles on sidewalks or otherwise
obstruct sidewalks located in the town.
(Ord. 2-1985, passed 4-2-1985) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Violators of §
72.05 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of
any amount less than $5, nor more than $50, for each offense.
(Ord. 2-1985, passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Operations and limitations
   
73.03   Crossing streets
   
73.04   Liability insurance coverage
   
73.05   Enforcement
Motorized Bicycles
   
73.20   Definition
   
73.21   Operation regulations
   
73.22   Protective gear
   
73.23   Non-licensed vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   A GOLF CART is a conveyance designed as a four-wheeled vehicle
originally designed for operation on a golf course and powered by a battery or
an internal combustion motor.
   (B)   The term does not include:
      (1)   An electronic personal assistive mobility device (as defined in
I.C. 9-13-2-49.3);
      (2)   A motorcycle (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-108);
      (3)   A motor-driven cycle (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-104.1);
      (4)   A Class B motor-driven cycle (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-26.5);
      (5)   Off-road vehicles of any description; or
      (6)   Vehicles which are guided by means of handle bars.
(Ord. 2014-3-1, passed 3-4-2014)
§ 73.02 OPERATIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts may be operated within the corporate limits of the town by
persons who are 16 years of age and older and have a valid motor vehicle
driver’s license.
   (B)   No person whose driving privileges are suspended for any reason shall
be permitted to operate a golf cart on any public street within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (C)   All operators of golf carts shall abide by all traffic regulations
applicable to vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks or in town parks other
than in parking areas or recognized vehicle traffic areas.
   (E)   (1)   Golf carts shall be operated only if such carts are equipped
with functional headlights and taillights, which are illuminated at all times,
a windshield, brake lights and a center-mounted rear view mirror.
      (2)   Golf carts shall also be equipped with a slow moving vehicle
triangular reflective sign prominently displayed on the back of the vehicle.
   (F)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-19-8-1 et seq., golf carts shall be equipped with a
muffler or other dissipative noise device in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive noise. All operators of golf carts shall be
subject to noise, fume and smoke regulations contained in I.C. 9-19-8-1 et seq.
   (G)   Golf carts may be operated within the town limits from sunrise until
sunset.
(Ord. 2014-3-1, passed 3-4-2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 CROSSING STREETS.
   (A)   Golf carts are permitted to traverse streets within the town limits.
   (B)   Golf carts shall cross streets to access other streets at street
intersections only.
(Ord. 2014-3-1, passed 3-4-2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 LIABILITY INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   The operator or owner of a golf cart must maintain financial responsibility
on his or her golf cart at all times.
(Ord. 2014-3-1, passed 3-4-2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Police Department shall be charged with enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-3-1, passed 3-4-2014)
MOTORIZED BICYCLES
§ 73.20 DEFINITION.
   A MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that is self-propelled, the term does not
include a farm tractor, an implement of agriculture designed to be operated
primarily on a farm field or on farm premises or an electric personal assisted
mobility device.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 73.21 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   A motorized bicycle may not be operated under any of the following
conditions:
   (A)   By a person who is less than 15 years of age;
   (B)   By a person who has not obtained an identification card under I.C. 9-
24, a permit under I.C. 9-24, an operator’s license under I.C. 9-24 or a
chauffeur’s license under I.C. 9-24;
   (C)   On an interstate highway, town street or sidewalk; and/or
   (D)   At a speed greater than 25 mph.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 PROTECTIVE GEAR.
   A person less than 18 years of age who operates or rides a motorized bicycle
on a street or highway shall do the following:
   (A)   Wear protective headgear; and
   (B)   Wear protective glasses, goggles or a transparent face shield.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 NON-LICENSED VEHICLES.
   (A)   All other non-licensed motorized vehicles shall be prohibited from
operation on the town streets, highways, alleys or sidewalks.
   (B)   All other non-licensed motorized vehicles shall remain on private
property and shall not be operated earlier than 10:00 a.m., nor later than 5:00
p.m.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   All penalties for violations of §§
73.01 through
73.05 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500 per violation.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(1) above, any person violating any
provision of §§
73.01 through
73.05 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine for the first offense of not
less than $25; for the second offense, not less than $50. If a third offense is
committed within one year of conviction of a second offense, the minimum fine
shall be $100. A further violation of §§
73.01 through
73.05 of this chapter may be subject to a fine as set forth herein and subject
to prosecution in a county court of law.
   (C)   A person who violates §§
73.20 through
73.23 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction. A fine shall be leveled of
not less than $75, plus applicable court costs.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 8-6-2007; Ord. 2014-3-1, passed 3-4-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Limited or restricted parking
      
II.   Thoroughfares
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED OR RESTRICTED PARKING.
 
Street     Location/    Restriction/ Penalty                      Ord.  Date
           Intersection Limit                                     No.   Passed
           Beginning at
           SR 350 to
           the
Manchester intersection One hour     Violators towed at owner’s 2019- 9-3-
Street     of                        expense                      9-2   2019
           Manchester
           Street and
           Wood Street
South                                Violators towed at owner’s 2007- 8-20-
Broadway               One hour     expense                      03    2007
Street
 
SCHEDULE II. THOROUGHFARES.
 
Thoroughfare Type Location        Direction of Travel Ord. No. Date Passed
                  From Manchester
Wood Street       Street to North East to west        2018-6-1 6-5-2018
                  Broadway Street
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department. (I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2
(before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196)
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C), the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08 of this chapter, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed
of in accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   (1)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle and all
allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or parts shall be released.
      (2)   A towing service shall notify the appropriate public agency of all
releases under this section. The notification must include the name, signature
and address of the person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a
description of the vehicle or parts, costs and the date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06 PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) of this chapter to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns or controls
the private property, and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation a
vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately.
      (2)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) above
shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession
of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts $1,000, the towing service shall immediately transfer the
vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided
to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle. The Police Department, Town Marshal or storage yard shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D) or
90.07(C) or (D) of this chapter, the Police Department, Town Marshal or towing
service shall conduct a search of national data bases, including a data base of
vehicle identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of record
of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of the
person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than 72 hours after
obtaining the name and address, notify the person who owns or holds a lien on
the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service;
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid; and
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 90.11 LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located; or in accordance
with this chapter; has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §§
90.06(C), (D) and (E) and 90.08 of this chapter and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs and Cats
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Rabies vaccination
   
91.17   Owner responsibility
   
91.18   Impoundment
   
91.19   Redemption
   
91.20   Adoption
   
91.21   Animals in violation; procedure
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Dog or cat.
   AT LARGE. A dog or cat off the property of the owner and not under
restraint.
   DANGEROUS. A dog or cat that without justification attacks a person or
domestic animal causing physical injury or death or that behaves in a manner
that a reasonable person would believe poses an unjustified imminent threat of
serious injury or death to one or more persons or domestic animals.
   HUMANE MANNER. Care of an animal including, but not limited to, adequate
heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, wholesome food and water consistent with
the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal’s size, species and
breed.
   KENNEL. An establishment kept for the purpose of breeding, selling or
boarding dogs or cats.
   NEUTERED. Rendered permanently incapable of reproduction.
   NUISANCE. A dog or cat that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on private
property other than the owner’s or on public walks and recreation areas unless
such waste is immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner; causes
unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions; causes a disturbance by
excessive barking or other noise making; or chases vehicles or molests, attacks
or interferes with persons or other domestic animals on public property.
   OWNER. A person having the right of property or custody of a dog or cat that
keeps or harbors a dog or cat or knowingly permits a dog or cat to remain on or
about any premises occupied by that person.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. A dog or cat within the real property limits of its owner,
secured by a leash or lead or under the control of a responsible person.
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 91.16 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat over four months of
age within the town unless such dog or cat is vaccinated.
   (B)   All dogs and cats shall be vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian in accordance with the most recent version of the Compendium of
Animal Rabies Prevention and Control, authorized by the National Association of
State Public Health Veterinarians.
   (C)   A certificate of vaccination shall be issued to the owner of each
animal vaccinated on a form recommended by the Compendium. Each owner shall
also receive a durable vaccination tag indicating the year in which it was
issued.
   (D)   Rabies tags must be attached to the collar of the dog or cat. Tags
must be worn at all times and are not transferable.
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All dogs and cats shall be kept under restraint.
   (B)   Every dangerous dog or cat, as determined by the town, shall be
confined by its owner within a building or secure enclosure and shall be
securely muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of its owner.
   (C)   (1)   No dog or cat shall be allowed to cause a nuisance.
      (2)   The owner of every dog or cat shall be held responsible for every
behavior of such dog or cat under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Dog and cat owners shall ensure that their dog or cat carried
identification at all times in the form of microchip, tag or other means to
allow easy determination of the owners.
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 91.18 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog or cat found at large shall be impounded by the County Animal
Control Authority and confined in a humane manner. Immediately upon impounding
a dog or cat, the Animal Control Authority shall make every reasonable effort
to notify the owner and inform such owner of the conditions whereby custody of
the animal may be regained. Dogs and cats not claimed by their owners within a
period of five full days in which the shelter is open to the public shall
become the property of the Animal Control authority.
   (B)   When a dog or cat is found running at large and its ownership is
verified by the town, the authority may exercise the option of serving the
owner with a notice of violation in lieu of impounding the animal.
   (C)   In the event that the town finds dogs or cats to be suffering, it
shall have the right to notify the County Animal Control, forthwith, to remove
or cause to have removed any such animals to a safe place for care at the
owner’s expense to prevent further suffering. Return to the owner may be
withheld until the owner has made full payment for all expenses so incurred to
the town and the County Animal Control.
   (D)   Disposal of an animal by any method specified herein does not relieve
the owner of liability for violations and any accrued charges.
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 91.19 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Any animal impounded may be redeemed by the owner thereof within five
days upon payment of an impoundment fee of $25; if any such animal has been
previously impounded, the impoundment fee shall be $100. Payment of impoundment
fees is not considered to be in lieu of any fine, penalty or license fees.
   (B)   Any animal confined for rabies quarantine, evidence or other purpose
may be redeemed by the owner thereof upon payment of a fee of $150.
   (C)   No animal required to be vaccinated under this subchapter may be
redeemed until provisions for such licensing have been fulfilled.
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 91.20 ADOPTION.
   (A)   An adoption fee of (see below) shall be assessed at the time of
adoption. No dog or cat shall be released for adoption as a pet without being
neutered or without a written agreement from the adopter guaranteeing that the
animal will be neutered. Vaccination fees, licensing fees and veterinary costs
may be assessed above and beyond the adoption fee.
   (B)   (1)   Dogs over one year old: $75;
      (2)   Puppies under one year old: $150;
      (3)   Cats over six months old: $25; and
      (4)   Kittens under six months old: $50.
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 91.21 ANIMALS IN VIOLATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When any person commits any of the acts or causes any of the
conditions, a complaining person should take a picture of the dog or cat in
violation and turn the picture to the President of the Town Council. The
President of the Town Council will then turn the picture over to the Town
Marshal who will then be directed to contact the County Animal Control to help
assist with capture of the dog and sent to the county animal shelter. Cats are
to be handled in the discretion of the Town Marshal and violations will be
served.
   (B)   It is recognized that holding periods will be determined to some
degree by availability of facilities; however, it is important to ensure a
reasonable opportunity for owners to reclaim their dog or cat (five days on
dogs and zero days on cats).
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons who fail to comply with the provisions of §
91.17 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $50 for the first offense,
and then $150 for the second offense.
(Ord. 2018-9-1, passed 10-2-2018)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Weeds
   
92.01   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.02   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.03   Filing complaint
   
92.04   Notice of violations
   
92.05   Appeals
   
92.06   Abatement by town
   
92.07   Liability
Nuisances and Blight Conditions
   
92.20   Junk storage
   
92.21   Water accumulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1
WEEDS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The town executive, or in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES. Includes Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass,
sorghum, alum (i.e., allium), bur cucumber and shattercane, but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
§ 92.02 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height and, in no event, exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 92.03 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 92.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition. The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property as that information is contained
within the records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. This
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide
that, within seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice, the
designated violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person
occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
       (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate
that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops, or is
not otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement
authority may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 92.07 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
    (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorneys’
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the
enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town shall set and assign
an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if the property
owner fails to pay a bill issued under this subchapter within the time
specified in this subchapter, the town shall certify to the County Auditor the
amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax
duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount, including any
accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
      (2)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under this
subchapter within the time specified in this subchapter, the town may bring an
action in an appropriate court to collect the amount of the bill, plus any
additional costs incurred in the collection, including court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees. If the town obtains a judgment under this division
(D)(2), the town may obtain a lien in the amount of the judgment on any real or
personal property of the owner.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
NUISANCES AND BLIGHT CONDITIONS
§ 92.20 JUNK STORAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK. Any unsheltered:
         (a)   Old, unused, stripped, junked or abandoned automobiles or
motorized or non- motorized vehicles not in good, safe and usable operating
condition;
         (b)   Any vehicles, trailers, campers, machinery, implements,
equipment, appliances or other personal property of any kind which is no longer
safely usable for the purpose for which it was manufactured; or
         (c)   Any unused building materials, junk, trash, garbage or debris.
      OWNER. Any person, individual, firm, business, corporation or
organization possessing, leasing, renting or holding title to any real estate
within the corporate boundaries of the civil town.
      UNSHELTERED. Storage that is not within a completely enclosed building.
   (B)   The unsheltered storage within the corporate limits of the town of
old, unused, stripped, junked, abandoned, unlicensed automobiles or vehicles
not in good, safe and usable operating condition, and of any vehicles,
trailers, campers, machinery, implements, equipment or appliances or personal
property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purpose for which
it was manufactured, or any accumulated unused building materials, trash, junk,
garbage or debris, which hereinafter are collectively described as “junk”
(except in duly licensed and regulated junk yards) within the corporate limits
of the town is hereby declared unlawful and to be a nuisance, a danger to the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Any owner found to be in violation of the above section of this
section shall be given a written notice thereof, issued by the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town, which notice, together with a copy of the ordinance, shall be
served by the Town Marshal or Deputy, or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the owner, and notifying said owner
that he or she has 15 days within which to bring said property into compliance
with this section.
   (D)   The Town Marshal, or his or her deputies, shall have the authority to
enter upon private property without the owner’s permission for the purpose of
investigating violations of this section and for enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 WATER ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
properly owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Town Council, Town Marshal, Town Attorney or
designee of the Town Council, or in cases of appeal the properly constituted
county or city court having jurisdiction hereof.
      POOLS OF WATER or ACCUMULATION OF WATER. The uncontrolled, untreated
accumulation of water, including, but not limited to, accumulations of water or
other liquids in human- made or natural pools which are allowed to remain in
place so as to become foul or stagnant, or in such a manner as to attract
insects, parasites and/or other posts which threaten the health and safety of
residents of the town.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person
having control over the property of another, such as a right-of-way, easement,
license or lease.
   (B)   Duty of owner to remove or dissipate accumulated water or pools of
water. It shall be the duly of any owner of real estate within the geographical
limits of the town to remove or dissipate pooled or accumulated water, and any
other accumulation of liquid, when such water or liquid has become foul or
stagnant, or when such water or liquid is accumulated in such a way that it
attracts insects, parasites or pests, regardless of whether the water or liquid
is accumulated or pooled naturally or in a human- made pool or container.
   (C)   Complaints. Any person, including town officials or employees, who
believe there is property located within the corporate limits of the town which
has pooled or accumulated water in violation of this section, shall make a
written complaint signed, dated and filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the
town makes the complaint, an employee, officer or Council member of the town
shall file the complaint in all respects as set out above. The enforcement
authority may also initiate a complaint under this section and shall make
written record of same, signed dated and filed in the same manner as for any
employee, official or citizen of the town.
   (D)   Notice of violations.
      (1)   Upon receiving notice of the probable of pooled or accumulated
water in violation of this section, a person designated by the enforcement
authority shall be authorized lo enter upon the subject property, make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority regarding
the condition, the enforcement authority, upon concluding that there is a
probable belief that this section has been violated, shall forward written
notification in the form of a “destruction order” to the property owner and/or
the person occupying the properly as that information is contained within the
records of the town or any other town agency. Such notice shall be served in
writing by hand-delivery or by certified mail. The notice shall provide that
within seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice that the designated
violation shall be removed by the properly owner and or person occupying the
property.
      (2)   (a)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be
with the Town Code Enforcement Officer and with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is
deemed filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   The properly owner may appeal the destruction order by filing
written notice of objections with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of
the notice, excluding weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the
finding of the enforcement authority. It is the properly owner’s responsibility
to demonstrate that the matter in question is not in violation of this section,
and should not be subject to destruction under the section.
      (2)   An appeal by the properly owner shall be brought before the
properly constituted county or city court having jurisdiction hereof. The
judge’s decision may be appealed before the Town Council by giving written
notice of appeal within ten days of the judge’s decision to the Town Council.
   (F)   Abatement. In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply
with the destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the enforcement authority of an intent to appeal, the
enforcement authority may employ the services of town employees or outside
contractors to remove or dissipate the water or other liquid in conformity with
this section by all lawful means.
   (G)   Liability.
      (1)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal or
dissipation of pools or accumulated water as defined by this section.
      (2)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs
associated with removal or dissipation of pools or accumulated water including,
but not limited to, court costs, attorney’s fees and interest on any unpaid
amounts incurred by the city. If the enforcement authority uses municipal
employees, the hourly rate for work performed by town employees shall be
established at $50 per hour for the services of town employees and $50 per hour
for use of town equipment. The Town Clerk- Treasurer shall issue a bill for
services to the property owner.
      (3)   All sums payable by the properly owner are to he paid lo the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and lo be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city. The sums payable by the property owner
shall be paid within 30 days of receipt of the statement. Pre-judgment interest
for unpaid balances shall accrue interest at the rate of 8% per annum. Post-
judgment interest shall be at the rate of 8% per annum.
      (4)   If the properly owner fails to pay a bill issued under this section
within the time specified in this section, the city shall certify to the County
Auditor the amount specified in the bill, plus any administrative costs,
attorney lees and court costs, incurred in the certification. The Auditor shall
place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property
affected, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be
collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 7- -2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   If owner fails to bring the property into compliance with §
92.20 of this chapter either by the proper disposal or removal in the lawful
manner from the corporate limits of the town of said junk within the time
prescribed, or by sheltering said junk, the town shall be entitled to seek and
obtain a mandatory injunction from the county courts or from any city court,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, for the purpose of requiring any person violating
the terms of §
92.20 of this chapter to remove in a lawful manner said junk found to exist on
private property. In addition, any person who violates §
92.20 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $500. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer or Town Manager for the town, or the Town
Attorney, are hereby authorized to file said civil action for mandatory
injunction relief and for imposition of fines on behalf of the civil town.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 7- -2010; Ord. 2010-6, passed 7-6-2010)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
Utility and Public Works Construction in Rights-of-Way and Easements
   
93.35   Compliance
   
93.36   Definition
   
93.37   Relocation of utilities at cost of owner
   
93.38   Street cuts
   
93.39   Safeguards, barriers, lights and work hours
   
93.40   Excavation, backfilling and restoration of service
   
93.41   Permit required; state permits recognized
   
93.42   Emergency cuts
   
93.43   Cost of restoration of street cuts to be paid
   
93.44   Cuts restored by authorized agencies/utilities
   
93.45   Permit fees; refund, waiver
   
93.46   Permit suspension upon failure to comply
   
93.47   Performance bond
   
93.48   Indemnification
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 of this chapter shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid
into the appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for
restoration services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed
by the town should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or
other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due
from the permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the work. The town
executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
UTILITY AND PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS
§ 93.35 COMPLIANCE.
   Any person, firm or corporation now owning and operating or hereafter
installing and operating any utility within the right-of-way of any street or
easement in the town, or any person, firm or corporation doing any repair in
any street right-of-way shall do so only in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.36 DEFINITION.
   The terms RIGHT-OF-WAY or EASEMENT means all of that area presently used,
owned or dedicated to or by the town or the state’s Department of
Transportation (INDOT) for a street, including sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
driveway aprons and all other areas of the right-of-way whether or not
physically incorporated in the street.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.37 RELOCATION OF UTILITIES AT COST OF OWNER.
   (A)   In the event of the abandonment, widening, repair, installation,
construction or reconstruction by or for the town and/or INDOT of any road,
bridge, culvert, traffic signal, street light, water distribution system,
sewage collection system, storm drain system or any other town facility within
a street right-of-way, the owner of any utility shall move, relocate or renew
such facility, upon request of the town, when necessary for public safety and
welfare and when a suitable site is available, all at the cost and expense of
the owner of such utility.
   (B)   The town will give as much advance notice to the affected utilities as
possible to facilitate their planning.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.38 STREET CUTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut or dig in the town for the
purpose of connecting with water, sewer, gas or other mains or pipes in said
streets, or for any other purpose by digging or cutting more than half-way
across such street until the half which has been cut or dug up shall have been
back-filled or plated over with street traffic plates so that one-half of the
passageway of the street shall always remain open and free for the
uninterrupted passage of traffic. Traffic plates shall be used when restoring
the pavement cut to allow traffic movement during the period of time when the
concrete sub-base required herein is curing to the point where the complete
street surface can be restored.
   (B)   For purpose of providing uniformity of traffic control methods,
procedures and devices for the use in connection with street and highway
construction and maintenance operations, the town hereby adopts the current
edition and the latest revision of part of the Indiana Manual on Uniform
Traffic- Control Devices for Streets and Highways, as the governing criteria
for the design, placement and use of traffic-control devices for street and
highway construction and maintenance operations within the town.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.39 SAFEGUARDS, BARRIERS, LIGHTS AND WORK HOURS.
   Every person, firm or corporation making or causing to be made any
construction ditch or any other excavation, road maintenance, utility
maintenance or utility construction in a street right-of-way shall do so in
careful, prudent and professional manner so as to properly safeguard and
protect the work site and to prevent injury to persons or property in at least
the following manner:
   (A)   By placing of substantial and adequate barricades in, around and along
the sides of the work area;
   (B)   By providing and maintaining adequate light to disclose to the public
the existence of any construction in the street, whether night or day;
   (C)   During the night time, to place at least one blinking light at the end
of each work area and the placing of other blinking lights spaced at intervals
recommended for the traffic speed within and adjacent to the construction area;
   (D)   By conforming to the barricade installations, traffic flow controls,
and lighting as required in Part V, §§ 3 and 4, of the latest edition and
revisions of the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets
and Highways, as published by INDOT.
   (E)   On arterial streets, as listed below, no work will be permitted during
peak traffic periods, 7:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday. An exception will be made for emergency work as defined herein.
Notice is to be given to the Local Road and Street Superintendent.
Arterial Streets with Restricted Permitted Work Hours
Name Restriction
Arterial Streets with Restricted Permitted Work Hours
Name                  Restriction
Adams Street
Chesterville Road
College Street
East High Street
East Street
Main Street
Manchester Street
Noble Street
North Broadway Street 7:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.
Oak Hills Lane        and
Oak Street            4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Railroad Lane         Monday through Friday
Rummel Road
Second Street
Shadow Lane
South Broadway Street
Volz Road
West High Street
Williams Street
Wood Street
 
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.40 EXCAVATION, BACKFILLING AND RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The width of a trench cut shall be kept to the minimum width necessary
to install and properly tamp around the pipe or any new installation. If rock
or adverse soil conditions are encountered and shoring is required, then the
trench cut shall be of sufficient additional width to provide for the
protection of the workers and proper installation of the pipe or other
structure. Excavation shall comply with applicable Department of Labor Safety
and Health Standards for Excavations.
   (B)   All drain, water, sewer or gas pipes shall be installed in any street,
sidewalk or easements of the town and/or INDOT so that the pipe will be buried
for a depth of not less than three feet. Exceptions may be made where required
by unusual conditions on a case by case basis by a Town Engineering Inspector.
   (C)   When soil conditions permit and there are no conflicting utilities,
gas, water, telephone, electric and cable television service lines shall be
installed through a jacking or boring process. In the event the jacking
procedure is attempted and unsuccessful, then the pipe may be installed using
an open cut procedure.
   (D)   Before back-filling of any cuts in streets or street rights-of-way,
the utility contractor shall request an inspection by Engineering Division or
other appropriate department of the town.
   (E)   All back-fill materials will be free from cinders, ashes, refuse,
vegetable or organic matter, boulders, rocks or stones, wet material or other
materials which renders same unsuitable to obtain a firm and compact cover for
the installed pipe.
   (F)   The back-fill shall be placed in layers not to exceed six inches and
each layer shall be thoroughly compacted to not less than 95% of the maximum
dry density as defined by a Standard Proctor Test. Flowable fill will be
substituted for compacted back-fill when directed by town inspectors.
   (G)   In the event a dispute arises as to the suitability of trench
compaction, a Standard Proctor Test (ASTM D698) shall be conducted by an
independent soil testing firm. In the event the test reveals that the same has
not been made in accordance with this subchapter, then the cost shall be borne
by the person, firm or corporation doing the back-fill. If the test fails to
support the opinion of the inspector, the town will pay the cost of the test.
   (H)   Prior to completing the back-filling operation in all streets in the
town, pavement shall be cut 12 inches on each side of the trench and a depth of
12 inches. If the cut is to be repaired by the town, then a temporary patch of
either six inches of compacted crusher run stone or a combination of three
inches of crusher run stone and three inches of compacted cold mix may be used.
Back-fill be brought up flush with the sub-base of the street or sidewalk.
   (I)   All materials shall meet the specifications of the current edition of
INDOT’s Standard Specification for Highway Construction, or the latest revision
thereto.
   (J)   Where the existing pavement sub-base is soil, soil cement or crushed
stone, the base for the permanent pavement repair in all streets shall consist
of a minimum of ten inches of concrete. Where the existing pavement base is
concrete, the permanent pavement repair shall consist of a minimum of ten
inches of concrete. If the existing pavement surface is asphalt or tar and
gravel, then the permanent pavement repair shall consist of two inches of
asphalt, otherwise the surface shall be repaved with concrete. Where sidewalks
are cut, the entire section shall be removed and replaced from the nearest
joints and curb.
   (K)   The entire surface of asphalt roadways will be overlaid on all
longitudinal cuts. Where numerous random utility cuts are made, the street or
lane shall be resurfaced for its entire width, if so determined by the Town
Engineer. Work shall be completed by a town-approved paving contractor.
   (L)   No new or resurfaced street or road shall be cut within five years
from its completion except for new services. Bonafide emergency utility repairs
may be made as required. Such five-year prohibition shall not apply to any
street wherein the city has not given the affected utilities a minimum of six
months written notice that such street will be resurfaced by the town.
Exceptions must be approved by the Town President.
   (M)   No cuts will be permitted to be opened if, in the opinion of the
Director of Public Works, the cut cannot be back-filled and resurfacing
restored within a reasonable amount of time, or if traffic flows cannot be
maintained. Exceptions will be made for emergencies as defined herein with due
notice to the Traffic Engineer.
   (N)   If any settlement occurs, the town may take such corrective action as
it deems appropriate and charge the permittee for such costs, including the
restoration of such excavation, or give notice to the permittee to restore such
excavation or pavement within ten days of such receipt of notice or be in
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.41 PERMIT REQUIRED; STATE PERMITS RECOGNIZED.
   (A)   (1)   Before making a pavement cut or performing any work in a street
right-of-way or easement, a permit will be obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, except in those instances otherwise provided for in this subchapter. No
permit will be required for normal maintenance activities not requiring
excavation in the right-of-way, a pavement cut or the blocking of traffic.
      (2)   For new construction, a utility will submit two sets of project
construction plans at the time of filing an application for a permit. Plans
will not be required for routine maintenance and service installations.
      (3)   The construction plans will be promptly reviewed and a permit will
be issued within three working days after submitting the plans, or write
comments submitted for revision of the plans to be made by the utility.
Revisions will be limited to those areas affecting town facilities and/or
traffic or pedestrian flow and protection. The utility will be responsible for
the engineering and design of its project and the integration of its
maintenance and construction responsibilities.
      (4)   No permit shall be issued until the permittee has presented a
utility location request number from Indiana 811 Protection Service meeting the
72-hour requirement of notification, except in the case of emergencies as
defined herein.
      (5)   In order to expedite the issuance of a permit, a permit may be
issued with conditions on construction and work hours initialed on the face of
the permit in lieu of requiring revisions in the plans. Upon issuance of the
permit, one set of construction plans marked “approved” will be returned to the
utility.
      (6)   The fee for a permit for work performed under this subchapter shall
be paid in accordance with the Inspection Department’s Fee Schedule.
   (B)   A town street cut permit will be required in addition to the INDOT
encroachment permit for work on INDOT-maintained roads.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.42 EMERGENCY CUTS.
   The term EMERGENCY shall mean the repair of a utility which must be made to
restore service, to avoid property damage or to eliminate danger to the public.
Notice of an emergency pavement cut shall be given to the town by telephone
during normal business hours. If the cut is made after normal business hours,
then notification shall be given at the beginning of the next business day. An
application will be made for a permit for all emergency cuts within 72 hours
after the cut has been made. All other provisions of this subchapter shall
apply to emergency cuts.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.43 COST OF RESTORATION OF STREET CUTS TO BE PAID.
   For those contractors and utilities that do not perform their own pavement
cut restorations, the cost of restoring pavements shall be paid to the town on
completion of the restoration arid measurement of the dimensions of the cut by
the Public Works Department. The cost shall be invoiced by the town to the
person performing the cut according to the latest Cut Restoration Fee Schedule
established by the town. The maximum area of sidewalk or pavement to be
restored by the town maintenance crews is 75 square feet. Restoration exceeding
this limit will be the permittee’s responsibility and will be performed in the
presence of a town inspector.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.44 CUTS RESTORED BY AUTHORIZED AGENCIES/UTILITIES.
   Any utility will be permitted to repair the cuts made by such utility if it
has a permanent pavement repair operation and performs such restorations in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.45 PERMIT FEES; REFUND, WAIVER.
   (A)   If the work for which a permit has been issued is canceled, the town
will refund the amount paid, if requested prior to the beginning of any work
and no later than the date on which the permit expires. In lieu of a refund, a
credit for the amount of the permit may be given to the person, firm or
corporation who may be applied against the cost of subsequent permits.
   (B)   The town may waive the permit fee for all work performed by a
governmental agency, whether this work is performed by the employees of the
governmental agency or by a private firm or corporation under contract with the
governmental agency. However, such governmental agency or private firm or
corporation under contract therewith shall not be relieved of the
responsibility for obtaining a permit for work covered in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.46 PERMIT SUSPENSION UPON FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If a person performing construction fails to perform said construction in
accordance with the conditions of the permit or the requirements of this
subchapter or existing ordinances of the town, the permit may be suspended and
work stopped until such time as the person performing the work gives assurance
to the town of his or her ability and intention to complete the work in
accordance with the conditions of the permit and this subchapter and the other
ordinances of the town. Any stop work notice shall be delivered in writing to
the representative of the person, firm or corporation performing the work and
shall state the reasons for such notice.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.47 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Before approval is granted, the Public Works Department shall require the
applicant to file with the town a performance bond satisfactory to the town to
indemnify the town from any and all costs resulting by the failure of the
applicant to satisfactorily complete the work. The bond amount shall be
determined by the estimated cost of excavation and street restoration.
Utilities operating under a franchise agreement with the town will be exempt
from this requirement.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 93.48 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation making a street cut or performing any
construction work in the town will file with the town evidence acceptable to
the town that the person making the cut and performing any construction work in
the streets of the town has sufficient expertise and ability to timely repair
the street, and shall execute an indemnification and hold harmless agreement to
the town together with a certificate of insurance naming the town as an
additional insured in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for personal injury
and $250,000 for damage to property; provided, however, that, self- insured
utilities may satisfy this provision by submission of audited financial
statements on an annual basis prior to the work subject to the approval of the
town and execute and deliver to the town an indemnification and hold harmless
agreement indemnifying, protecting, and holding harmless the town from the
actions of the entity in making a street cut or performing any construction
work in the town.
(Ord. 2020-2-1, passed 2-4-2020)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
94.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
94.10   Exemptions
   
94.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. Chapter
45, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 69, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 126; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-5-
6(b)); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9-5-6(d)(3)).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04,
94.05,
94.06,
94.07 or
94.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined herein.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
94.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (A)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3; and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (B) below, nothing in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04 of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
94.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
94.03(A)(2) and
94.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to self or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   (a)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions
or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services
or facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
            1.   That person;
            2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
            3.   Any person associated with that person.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (A)(7), DISCRIMINATION includes:
            1.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
            2.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules,
policies, practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to
afford such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
            3.   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multi-family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after 9-13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
               a.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings
are readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
               b.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
               c.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
                  i.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
                  ii.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
                  iii.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in
a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 126, and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSIA117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements hereof.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03,
94.04,
94.05 or
94.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and, if
death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3 the definition of
“family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 94.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin; nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 94.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Town Council President.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Town Council President,
shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for under
division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution
and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Town Council President and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council President, or the chief elected official’s designee,
shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or
complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-6-2014)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Open Burning
   
95.01   State law adopted by reference
   
95.02   Prohibited action
   
95.03   Exceptions
   
95.04   Applicable provisions and regulations
   
95.05   Grills and cooking fires
 
   
95.99   Penalty
OPENING BURNING
§ 95.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   326 I.A.C. 4-1-3 and I.C. 13-17-9, and the separate definitions,
prohibitions, rules and exceptions, are hereby incorporated in and made a part
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-07-01, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITED ACTION.
   Except as expressly permitted by §
95.03 of this chapter, all open burning everywhere in the town is prohibited.
(Ord. 2020-07-01, passed 8-4-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For maintenance purposes only and without first obtaining a permit or
other authorization, a person may openly burn vegetation from:
      (1)   A farm;
      (2)   An orchard;
      (3)   A nursery;
      (4)   A tree farm;
      (5)   A cemetery; or
      (6)   A drainage ditches.
   (B)   Subject to and in strict compliance with the conditions of §
95.04 of this chapter, and other applicable conditions as set forth in this
division (B) and 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3, the following types of fires are permitted
in the town:
      (1)   Recreational or ceremonial fires, such as fires for scouting
activities, and fires used for cooking purposes, such as campfires, subject to
the following conditions:
         (a)   Only the following may be burned:
            1.   Clean wood products;
            2.   Paper;
            3.   Charcoal; and
            4.   Clean petroleum products.
         (b)   Any person conducting recreational or ceremonial fires, the size
of which may exceed 125 cubic feet, shall notify the local fire department and
health department at least, 24 hours prior to any burning and including the
date, time and location of the burning.
         (c)   Fires shall:
            1.   Not be ignited more than two hours before the recreational
activity is to take place; and
            2.   Be extinguished upon conclusion of the activity.
         (d)   The pile to be burned shall be less than or equal to 500 cubic
feet and only one pile may be burned at a time.
         (e)   The fires shall not be used for disposal purposes.
         (f)   Fires shall not be located within 500 feet of any fuel storage
area or pipeline.
      (2)   Burning, for disposal purposes, of clean wood products and paper,
leaves, yard waste and card board; no building materials, food products or
trash, burned on private residential properties developed as single- or two-
family residences, but only in non-combustible containers that are sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion and have enclosed sides and a
bottom;
      (3)   Burning, for the purpose of heating and not disposal, using clean
wood products, paper, charcoal or clean petroleum products, no leaves, yard
waste, cardboard, building materials, food products or trash in noncombustible
containers that are sufficiently vented to induce adequate primary combustion
or defined fire pits or outdoor fireplaces; and
      (4)   Burning for cooking in grills, smokers, other non-combustible
containers, that are sufficiently vented to induce adequate primary combustion,
defined fire pits or outdoor fireplaces of only clean wood products, paper,
charcoal or clean petroleum products. CLEAN WOOD PRODUCTS means wood products
that are not pressure treated or coated with stain, paint, glue or other
coating material. CLEAN PETROLEUM PRODUCTS means natural gas, propane gas,
butane gas and charcoal lighter fluid.
(Ord. 2020-07-01, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 95.04 APPLICABLE PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   Unless specifically excepted, the following conditions, in addition to the
conditions as set forth in §
95.03(B) of this chapter and the applicable provisions of 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3,
shall apply to all permitted fires and open burning in the town.
   (A)   Fires must be attended at all times and until completely extinguished.
   (B)   A fire shall be extinguished if at any time it creates a:
      (1)   Pollution problem;
      (2)   Threat to public health;
      (3)   Nuisance; or
      (4)   Fire hazard.
   (C)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as any of the following:
      (1)   High winds;
      (2)   Temperature inversions;
      (3)   Air stagnation; and
      (4)   When a pollution alert or air quality action day has been declared.
   (D)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state and local laws,
rules and ordinance.
   (E)   Adequate firefighting equipment shall be on-site for extinguishing
purposes during burning times.
   (F)   Open burning shall be conducted during daylight hours only, and all
fires, except for recreational or ceremonial fires, such as campfires, shall be
extinguished before sunset.
(Ord. 2020-07-01, passed 8-4-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 GRILLS AND COOKING FIRES.
   Fires for cooking purposes only, contained in non-combustible containers
(grills) in which only clean wood products, paper, charcoal, and clean
petroleum products may be burned, are expressly permitted in town parks,
exclusively in designated areas. All other open burning on town property is
strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2020-07-01, passed 8-4-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter may be fined by the town up to $150 per occurrence.
(Ord. 2020-07-01, passed 8-4-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business,
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If, for any reason, the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business and, unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given
to the person by mail at his or her last known address at least ten days prior
to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk- Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06 of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.
   (C)   The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given
to the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 or this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
130.01   Prohibition
   
130.02   Signs required
   
130.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises or
park.
§ 130.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this subchapter shall not apply to
persons who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or
federal law or to any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement
officer while on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this subchapter shall not apply to
highways or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
      
152.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
Dwellings Unfit for Human Habitation
   
150.15   Adoption of law
   
150.16   Administrator
   
150.17   Construction and applicability
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.02 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
DWELLINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF LAW.
   The Town Council hereby adopts I.C. 16-41-20, which establishes the law for
dwellings unfit for human habitation, including powers of local inspectors of
such dwellings.
(Ord. 2018-5-1, passed - -2018)
§ 150.16 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Marshal is appointed to administer these provisions as adopted by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 2018-5-1, passed - -2018)
§ 150.17 CONSTRUCTION AND APPLICABILITY.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2018-5-1, passed - -2018)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of this section shall be addressed as established in I.C.
36-7-9 as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2018-5-1, passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
   
151.01   Intent
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Placement with permit
   
151.04   Structural alteration
   
151.05   Tax assessment classification
   
151.06   Town improvements
   
151.07   Adoption of state and federal regulations
   
151.08   Special exception permit
   
151.09   Standards; placement
   
151.10   Permit fee
   
151.11   Appeal
   
151.12   Temporary uses
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the chapter to encourage provision of alternative modest
income housing in general residential areas by permitting the use of certain
manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which similar
dwellings constructed on site are permitted, subject to the requirements set
forth herein to assure acceptable similarity in exterior appearance between
such manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or might be constructed
under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same
district.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXANPDO ROOM. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after 6-15-1976, in and
oil-site manufacturing requirements and limitations applying generally to such
residential is in the district and provided such homes shall meet the following
requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings and possess all necessary improvement location, building and
occupancy permits and other certifications required by the code.
      (2)   The home shall be larger than 950 square feet of occupied space or
meet the minimum square footage requirements for the appropriate zone.
      (3)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation
in conformance with the regulations in the Indiana One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code and with manufacturer’s installation applications.
      (4)   The home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used on site-built residential dwellings, and such material shall extend over
the top of the foundation.
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of material customarily used on
site-built residential dwellings, such as asbestos, fiberglass, shake, asphalt
or tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched for the
materials used.
      (6)   The home shall be constructed ten years from the current year.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.03 PLACEMENT WITH PERMIT.
   Manufactured homes not meeting the terms and mobile homes shall be permitted
within the town only alter receiving a special exception permit from the body
authorized to grant special exception permits.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.04 STRUCTURAL ALTERATION.
   Due to its integral design, any structural alteration or modification of a
manufactured or mobile home after it is placed on the site must be approved by
the authorized administrator (or other designee) of the town.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.05 TAX ASSESSMENT CLASSIFICATION.
   All manufactured homes placed after the date of this chapter shall be
assessed as real estate and not as personal property.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.06 TOWN IMPROVEMENTS.
   The town shall in no way be responsible for placement of any structure
within the town limits as to extension or improvement of any streets,
sidewalks, driveways or sewer extensions made necessary by such placement
facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code or Indiana Pub. Law No. 360, Acts of
1971, as promulgated by the Indiana Administrative Building Council. All
manufactured homes placed ten years from the current year shall be assessed as
real estate and not as personal property.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.07 ADOPTION OF STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code. Title IV
of the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.),
as amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which include H.U.D. approved
information supplied by the home manufacturer, and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the Indiana Administrative Building Council.
   (B)   Mobile home. A transportable structure built prior to 6-15-1976, the
effective date for the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., larger than 320 square feet, and designed to
be used as a year-round residential dwelling.
   (C)   One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, Indiana. The mandatory Statewide
Building Code adopted by the Indiana Administrative Building Council for one-
and two-family residential dwellings.
   (D)   Public Law 360, Acts of 1971. Enabling legislation requiring the
Indiana Administrative Building Council to adopt rules and regulations for the
construction, repair or maintenance of factory- constructed one- or two-family
residential dwellings.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.08 SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT.
   A device for permitting a use other than a principally permitted use within
a district.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.09 STANDARDS; PLACEMENT.
   The establishment, location and use of manufactured homes as scattered-site
residences shall be permitted in any zone permitting installation of a dwelling
unit subject to water supply, sewage disposal system and utility connections,
where appropriate, at the discretion of the Plan Commission or its designated
administrator.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.10 PERMIT FEE.
   A temporary use permit shall be issued by the Plan Commission’s designated
administrator. The fee shall be $25 and is in addition to all other required
permits for utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.11 APPEAL.
   An action to review any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by an administrative official or board charged with enforcement of the zoning
ordinance shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-919.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.12 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Circumstances for permit issuance. Subject to conditions, fees and
standards otherwise required in the zoning ordinance, a temporary use permit
shall be issued:
      (1)   To an applicant in die process of building a site-built dwelling to
locale a manufactured or mobile home on a building lot. During the course of
construction of the dwelling, such permit shall not be issued until after a
building permit for the dwelling has been issued;
      (2)   To an applicant to use a manufactured or mobile home as a
caretaker’s quarters or construction office at a job site; and
      (3)   To an applicant whose own health or health of another necessitates
care, and where the facts show that an unnecessary hardship would occur if not
permitted to locate a manufactured home adjacent to the residence of one who is
able to provide such care or in need of such care.
   (B)   Length of permit. A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the Plan Commission or its designated administrator, for a period
not to exceed two years. The temporary permit may be renewed for an additional
one-year period upon showing of good cause and with permission to do so.
However, at the discretion of the Plan Commission or its designated
administrator, a temporary use permit may be issued to an applicant for a
health or age related circumstance for a period coterminous with the health or
age related circumstance.
   (C)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the
properly within 90 days.
   (D)   Utility requirements. Manufactured or mobile homes used for temporary
uses shall have an approved water supply, sewage disposal system and utility
connections, where appropriate, and at the discretion of the Plan Commission or
its designated administrator.
   (E)   Permit fee. A temporary use permit shall be issued by the Plan
Commission’s designated administrator. The fee shall be $25 and is in addition
to all other required permits for utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply. Each day a non-compliance with the provisions of
this chapter constitutes a separate and distinct ordinance violation. Judgement
of up to $500 per day may be entered for a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Subject to removal. A home, sited upon property in violation of this
chapter, shall be subject to removal from such properly. However, the home
owner must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the properly into
compliance before action for removal can be taken. If action finally is taken
by the appropriate authority to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be
made a lien against the property.
   (C)   Removal method. The Plan Commission or its designated administrator
may institute a suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause
such violation to be prevented, abated or removed.
   (D)   Liability. Any damages to any properly owned by the town caused by the
placement, of a manufactured home become the full liability of the owner and
must be replaced and/or repaired within 60 days to the satisfaction of the
town.
(Ord. 2017-4-1, passed 4-4-2017)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 152.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s planning and zoning ordinances, and any and all amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 4-1986, passed - -1986)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FUNDS
TABLE I: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Interlocal agreement between the City of Lawrenceburg and the Town of Moores
-    - -    Hill relating to the town’s use of the Lawrenceburg City Court for ordinance
            violation hearings
           
 
TABLE II: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishes ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
2021-5-1 5-4-2021    176, a special nonreverting fund, and its utilization;
                     establishes the ARP Plan
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                              Code Section
1-1-1-5                                10.04
1-1-1-7                                10.12
1-1-1-8                                10.06
1-1-4-5                                10.05
1-1-5-1                                10.11
1-1-6-1                                10.08
3-10-6                                 32.02
3-10-7                                 32.02
3-13-9-3                               32.06
4-21.5                                 52.34
5-2-1-9                                32.21;
                                       32.24
5-3-1                                  31.072
5-11-10-1.6                            33.04
5-11-10-2                              33.03
5-14-1.5                               31.015
5-14-1.5-3.5                           31.019
5-14-1.5-3.6                           31.019
5-14-1.5-4(a)                          31.018
5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c)                  31.019
5-14-1.5-6.1                           31.016
5-14-3-3                               31.016
5-14-3-4(b)(12)                        31.016
5-16-9                                 72.04
5-22                                   32.43
6-1.1-17                               33.21;
                                       33.22
6-1.1-17-3                             33.20
8-1.5-3-4(d)                           50.01
8-14-1                                 33.07
8-14-2                                 33.07
8-22-2                                 31.016
8-22-3                                 31.016
8-23-4                                 90.07
9-13-2-1                               90.02
9-13-2-6                               70.01
9-13-2-8                               90.02
9-13-2-16                              90.02
9-13-2-26.5                            73.01
9-13-2-47                              70.01
9-13-2-49.3                            70.01;
                                       73.01
9-13-2-56                              70.01
9-13-2-63                              90.02
9-13-2-73                              70.01
9-13-2-77                              70.01
9-13-2-84                              70.01
9-13-2-104.1                           73.01
9-13-2-105(a) and (b)                  70.01
9-13-2-108                             70.01;
                                       73.01
9-13-2-118                             70.01
9-13-2-121(a)                          70.01;
                                       90.02
9-13-2-122                             90.02
9-13-2-136                             90.02
9-13-2-144                             90.02
9-13-2-155                             70.01
9-13-2-157                             70.01
9-13-2-178                             70.01
9-13-2-179                             90.02
9-13-2-196                             90.02
9-13-2-196(a)                          70.01
9-18-2                                 90.02
9-18-2.5                               90.02
9-18-12                                90.03
9-18.1                                 90.02
9-18.1-8                               90.03
9-18.1-14                              90.02
9-18.5-8                               72.04
9-18.5-34                              90.03
9-19                                   70.01
9-19-8-1 et seq.                       73.02
9-21-1-3                               Ch. 71;
                                       Ch. 72
9-21-5-6                               Ch. 71
9-21-12-13                             70.01
9-21-20-1                              70.01
9-21-20-2                              70.01
9-21-20-3                              70.01
9-22-1                                 90.04
9-22-1-1                               90.03
9-22-1-2                               90.02
9-22-1-4                               90.04;
                                       90.08
9-22-1-5                               90.05
9-22-1-7                               90.05
9-22-1-8                               90.05
9-22-1-11                              90.07
9-22-1-12                              90.07
9-22-1-13                              90.07
9-22-1-14                              90.07
9-22-1-15                              90.06
9-22-1-16(a)                           90.06
9-22-1-16(b)                           90.06
9-22-1-17                              90.06
9-22-1-18                              90.07
9-22-1-19                              90.08
9-22-1-21.5                            90.11
9-22-1-31                              90.09
9-22-1-32                              90.10
9-22-6                                 90.04;
                                       90.11
9-24                                   73.21
13-17-9                                95.01
13-22                                  31.072
13-23                                  31.072
13-24                                  31.072
13-25-4                                31.072
13-25-5                                31.072
13-25-5-8.5(f)                         31.072
16-18-2-110                            70.01
16-22-8                                70.01
16-41-20                               150.15
22-9-1-4 et seq.                       94.02
22-9-5-6                               94.02
22-9-5-6(b)                            94.02
22-9-5-6(d)(3)                         94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                       94.01
22-9.5-2-2                             94.02
22-9.5-2-3                             94.02
22-9.5-2-4                             94.02
22-9.5-2-8                             94.02
22-9.5-2-9                             94.02
22-9.5-2-11                            94.02
22-9.5-2-13                            94.02
22-9.5-3                               94.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                       94.10
22-9.5-4-8                             94.11
22-9.5-5                               94.02
22-9.5-5-1                             94.03
22-9.5-6                               94.02;
                                       94.11
22-13-2-3                              150.01
25                                     31.016
25-37-1-11                             Ch. 111
33-35-3-1                              32.03
33-35-3-2                              32.03
35-44.1-1-4                            32.43
35-47-5-13(a)                          32.25
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                        10.99
36-1-6-4                               92.99
36-1-7                                 32.06
36-1-10                                31.016
36-1-11                                31.016
36-1-12                                32.43
36-5-2-2                               10.15
36-5-2-3(a)                            31.001
36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) 31.001
36-5-2-4.1                             31.072
36-5-2-4.2                             31.071
36-5-2-6                               31.002
36-5-2-7                               31.004
36-5-2-8                               31.021
36-5-2-9                               31.003
36-5-2-9.2                             31.020
36-5-2-9.4(a)                          31.070
36-5-2-9.4(b)                          31.071
36-5-2-9.6                             31.070
36-5-2-9.8                             31.071
36-5-2-10                              31.072
36-5-2-10.2                            31.073
36-5-3-3                               33.20
36-5-3-4                               33.21
36-5-3-5                               33.22
36-5-4-2                               33.01
36-5-4-3                               33.02
36-5-4-4                               33.03
36-5-4-6                               33.04
36-5-4-7                               33.05
36-5-4-12                              33.06
36-5-4-13(b)                           33.07
36-5-6-2                               32.03
36-5-6-3(a)                            32.01
36-5-6-3(b)                            32.02
36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or (f)           32.02
36-5-6-4                               32.02
36-5-6-5                               32.03
36-5-6-5.1                             32.05
36-5-6-6                               32.03
36-5-6-7                               32.04
36-5-6-8                               32.04
36-5-6-9                               32.06
36-5-7-2                               32.20
36-5-7-3                               32.21
36-5-7-4                               32.22
36-5-7-5                               32.23
36-5-7-6                               32.24
36-5-7-7                               32.25
36-7                                   31.071
36-7-4-919                             151.11
36-7-9                                 150.02;
                                       150.99
36-7-9-2                               150.02
36-7-9-3                               150.02
36-7-10.1                              Ch. 92
36-7-10.1-4                            92.07
36-7-14-6.1(a)                         32.58
36-7-14-7                              32.58
36-8                                   32.21;
                                       32.24
36-9-22-2(b)                           52.06
36-9-23-31                             52.28
36-9-30-3                              90.07
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             - -         TSO Table I
2-1985        4-2-1985    72.05;
                          72.99
4-1986        - -1986     152.01
                          52.25—
2000-1        4-3-2000    52.34;
                          52.99
2002-01       10-7-2002   52.01—
                          52.13
                          73.20—
2007-08       8-6-2007    73.23;
                          73.99
2007-03       8-20-2007   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2008-         7-7-2008    51.01—
                          51.05
2010-1        3-2-2010    52.28
2010-3        5-20-2010   52.28
2010-5        7- -2010    92.21;
                          92.99
2010-6        7-6-2010    92.20;
                          92.99
2011-8-1      8-2-2011    32.41
2012-4-1      4-3-2012    33.36
2012-4-4      4-3-2012    52.28
2012-9-2      9-4-2012    50.03
2013-2-1      2-5-2013    52.28
2013-2-2      2-5-2013    71.04
                          73.01—
2014-3-1      3-4-2014    73.05;
                          Ch. 74, Schd. I
2014-4-1      4-1-2014    50.02
2014-5-1      5-6-2014    94.01—
                          94.11
2014-5-2      5-6-2014    32.42
2014-7-1      7-1-2014    32.55—
                          32.58
2014-12-31-15 12-2-2014   32.43
2016-6-2      6-7-2016    33.35
2017-4-1      4-4-2017    34.01
                          151.01—
2017-4-1      4-4-2017    151.12;
                          151.99
6-7-17        6-6-2017    32.40
                          150.15—
2018-5-1      - -2018     150.17;
                          150.99
2018-6-1      6-5-2018    Ch. 74, Schd. II
                          91.15—
2018-9-1      10-2-2018   91.21;
                          91.99
2020-2-1      2-4-2020    93.35—
                          93.48
                          95.01—
2020-07-01    8-4-2020    95.05;
                          95.99
2021-5-1      5-4-2021    TSO Table II
2021-10-1     10-5-2021   52.28
2022-3-3      3-1-2022    52.28
                         
 
