MOORESVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 11-2024, passed 8-20-2024; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts,
Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town of
Mooresville Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Morgan County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Mooresville, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   A late payment fee of $25 from a defendant who is found to have
committed a crime, violated a statute defining an infraction, violated an
ordinance of the town or committed a delinquent act who is required to pay
court costs including fees, a fine or civil penalty and is not determined by
the court imposing the court costs, fine or civil penalty to be an indigent and
fails to pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a cost, fine or civil penalty in full
before the latter of the following: The end of the business day on which the
court enters the conviction judgment; or the end of the period specified in a
payment schedule set for the payment of court costs, fines or civil penalties
under rules adopted for the operation of the court. Notwithstanding I.C. 33-37-
2-2, the court may suspend a late payment fee if the court finds that the
defendant has demonstrated good cause for failure to make a timely payment of
court costs, fines or civil penalty.
(Rule passed 7-1-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Legislative Districts of the town
   
11.02   Depository for the town
§ 11.01 LEGISLATIVE DISTRICTS OF THE TOWN.
   The Town Council Districts (Legislative Body Districts) are established as
set forth in the map (Exhibit A) attached to the ordinance codified in this
section.
(Ord. 6, 2017, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 11.02 DEPOSITORY FOR THE TOWN.
   Citizens Bank of Mooresville shall be the main depository for funds of the
town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be Citizens Bank of Mooresville as the
main depository of public funds held by the town.
(Res. 1, 1998, passed 1-19-1998)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   TOWN COURT
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Terms of office
   
30.02   Consultants to the Council
   
30.03   Delegate to the state’s Heartland Coordinating Commission
§ 30.01 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The terms of offices for the Council members to be elected on November
6, 1979 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Ward One: Two years;
      (2)   Ward Two: Four years;
      (3)   Ward Three: Four years;
      (4)   Ward Four: Four years; and
      (5)   Ward Five: Two years.
   (B)   The Council members elected on November 6, 1979 shall serve the terms
designated in division (A) above beginning on January 1, 1980.
   (C)   The successors to the Council members elected from Wards One and Five
on November 6, 1979 shall be elected at a town election to be held on November
3, 1981, and their successors shall serve for terms of four years.
   (D)   The successors to the Council members elected from Wards Two, Three
and Four on November 6, 1979, and beginning their terms on January 1, 1980,
shall be elected and serve for terms of four years.
   (E)   Each Council member shall be elected by a vote of all voters in the
town, but shall represent the ward from which he or she runs.
   (F)   To be eligible to run for office of Council member, a person must be a
resident of the ward he or she seeks to represent, be a citizen of the United
States and be of legal voting age.
   (G)   A Council member may move his or her residence from the ward of
election to another ward without vacating his or her seat; but such Council
member shall not be eligible for re-election from the ward in which he or she
no longer resides.
   (H)   A Council member who moves his or her place of residence outside the
corporate limits of the town vacates his or her seat on the Town Council and
shall be replaced according to the applicable state statute.
(Ord. 18, 1978, passed 10-17-1978; Ord. 21, 1978, passed 11-21-1978)
§ 30.02 CONSULTANTS TO THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Purpose. To prescribe the procedures of the Town Council, (hereinafter
called the “Council”), applicable to the retaining of consultants on contracts
involving federal participation so that these procedures are compatible with
appropriate regulations and guidelines of the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
   (B)   Use of consultant. The services of a consultant may be requested for a
project where:
      (1)   The in-house capabilities of the Council are insufficient to
accomplish the project within the desirable time;
      (2)   The complexity or nature of the project requires specialized
expertise;
      (3)   It is more economical to engage such services; or
      (4)   It is otherwise in the public interest.
   (C)   Authorization for employment of a consultant. When determined at a
regular meeting of the Council that consulting services be used, the minutes
shall show that the Council has decided to use the services of a consultant.
   (D)   Record of consultants.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer will maintain files and records of
consultants who have expressed interest in providing professional services and
who have submitted information as to the qualifications of their firm.
      (2)   The record of consultants will be based upon information provided
by each consultant in a manner which may be prescribed, supplemented with such
other information as is considered necessary to provide current data about the
firm. The information shall include the name, address, list of principals, list
of professional technical supportive staff, the qualifications and experience
of individuals, the history and experience of the firm, the extent of
involvement in noteworthy projects and technical and financial references. From
time to time, supplemental information may be submitted by the consultants to
keep their file current.
      (3)   The record or listing of consultants will include the firms
previously and currently satisfactorily employed by the town, and all MBE/WBE
firms known to the IDOH. The tabulation should produce a listing of four to
eight firms for each type of work.
   (E)   Selection of consultants. The selection of consultants for specific
projects will be made by majority decision of the Council.
   (F)   Request for proposals.
      (1)   Prior to the consultant selection, the Council will prepare a
notice of projects for which consultant proposals are being requested. The
listing is to provide the necessary project date for preparation of consultant
proposals.
      (2)   The notice is to provide for a period of time, not to be less than
30 days from date of posting of the notice, during which consultant proposals
will be accepted for the various proposed agreements described in the notice.
      (3)   The listing is to be posted in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office in the
Town Hall at 4 E. Harrison Street, Mooresville, Indiana 46158.
      (4)   Also by regular mail the notice will be sent to all firms that have
met the requirements outlined in division (D) above, and which have requested
in writing that notices covering specific types of projects be sent to them
with the firm’s request being renewed annually.
   (G)   Submittal of proposals.
      (1)   Any consultants having on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office or
submitted with their proposal current information on the firm’s qualifications
may submit proposal(s) for items noted in the notice of request for proposals
during the period of time specified in the notice.
      (2)   The proposal must include:
         (a)   Description of the proposed project;
         (b)   Description of anticipated work elements;
         (c)   Proposed staffing for the work including designation of project
manager;
         (d)   Proposed schedule of work; and
         (e)   Information concerning current overhead rate as prepared by a
CPA or registered accountant or as approved by the IDOH.
   (H)   Selection of consultant.
      (1)   The Council, after a review of the proposals received for a
project, will decide which firm the Council, in its opinion, has found most
suitable for employment for that project. In keeping with the intent of the
state’s MBE affirmative action plan and federal regulations concerning
employment of minority business enterprises, the greatest possible
consideration for use of minority-owned firms will be given during the
selection process. The minutes of the Council meeting will note the reasons for
selection of the recommended consultant.
      (2)   Upon the Council’s approval, the proposal received from the
selected consultant, together with any necessary added information of breakdown
of scope, schedule and proposed compensation with worker hour estimates,
overhead rate, direct costs and the like, will undergo a further technical
review by the Council. As required, preliminary discussions between the
consultant and the Council will take place during these assessments.
      (3)   In those instances where FHPM 1-7-2 requires pre-award audit
evaluation on selected consultants which are expected to exceed $50,000, said
financial review will be made by the Town Council in conjunction with the
state’s Department of Highways, Division of Accounting and Control.
   (I)   Negotiations for contract.
      (1)   When the assessment of the consultant’s proposal has been
completed, negotiations of the contract for the work will take place with the
Town Council in group negotiating the contract with documentation of the use of
the evaluations during negotiations and a preliminary agreement developed and
submitted for any necessary reviews and approvals. Upon receipt of needed
approvals, including local, IDOH and FHWA approvals, a final contract will be
executed.
      (2)   If agreement cannot be reached during negotiations of a contract
with reasonable efforts to reach an agreement, either the Town Council or
consultant may terminate the discussions. In such event, the selection and
negotiations with an alternate firm may then be undertaken.
   (J)   Exceptions to procedure. Where a project is considered of any
emergency nature, or where the scope of work is relatively small, or where
consultant’s fees for the work will be less than $10,000, or when the
specialized qualifications of a particular consultant appear needed for
accomplishment of the work or when non-competitive negotiations are authorized
by the Federal Highway Administration, a consultant may be selected with any
necessary concurrence by the state’s Department of Highways and the Federal
Highway Administration’s Division Office, and only that firm requested to
immediately submit a consultant proposal for the project.
   (K)   Notice to proceed with work. When federal and state approvals have
been received on the contract, along with “authorization to proceed,” a written
notice to proceed with the work will be given to the consultant by the town. No
compensation will be made for work undertaken prior to such notice to proceed.
(Ord. 12, 1988, passed - -)
§ 30.03 DELEGATE TO THE STATE’S HEARTLAND COORDINATING COMMISSION.
   The Town Council authorizes the town’s entry into an agreement for the
formation and operation of the state’s Heartland Coordinating Commission and
has the right and duty to appoint a delegate thereto.
   (A)   The delegate shall be a member of the Town Council.
   (B)   The delegate shall serve for a term of one year, with the first such
delegate to be appointed for a term of January 1, 1977 through December 31,
1977.
   (C)   The delegate so chosen shall be selected at the organizational meeting
of the Town Council.
(Ord. 13, 1976, passed 12-21-1976)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Officials and Employees
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.02   Assistant Street Commissioner and Sewer Plant Superintendent
   
31.03   Chief Marshal
   
31.04   Deputy Marshal
   
31.05   Fire Chief
   
31.06   ADA Coordinator
Compensation and Benefits
   
31.20   Compensation of elected officials, officers, board and commission
members and employees
   
31.21   Deferred compensation program
   
31.22   Medical insurance coverage
   
31.23   Public Employees Retirement Fund
   
31.24   Police and Firefighters’ Pension
OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to hire an assistant to aid in the
carrying out of duties and to pay said assistant a sum of money each month
during which said assistant is actually employed, not to exceed $80, to be paid
from the Sewer Fund. Said employment is subject to the continuing approval of a
majority of the members of the Town Council.
(Ord. 5-60, passed 8- -1960)
§ 31.02 ASSISTANT STREET COMMISSIONER AND SEWER PLANT SUPERINTENDENT.
   There is created a new position for an additional employee of the town who
shall hold the title of Assistant Street Commissioner and Assistant Sewer Plant
Superintendent to assist in functions and to perform labor for the town. The
salary of the Assistant Street Commissioner and Assistant Sewer Plant
Superintendent shall be paid from the Sewer Fund and Street Fund.
(Ord. 5-1963, passed 9-3-1963)
§ 31.03 CHIEF MARSHAL.
   (A)   There shall henceforth be an officer designated as the Chief Marshal
of the town, appointed by the Town Council.
   (B)   The duties of the Chief Marshal shall include, but not be limited by,
the following:
      (1)   Execute the orders of the Council members;
      (2)   Enforce the bylaws and ordinances of the town;
      (3)   Enforce all laws, as a peace officer of the town with the powers
and liabilities as presently conferred by the laws of the state;
      (4)   Shall report directly to the Town Council and shall be responsible
for the manner of performance of any Deputy Marshal;
      (5)   Shall issue all orders as to hours worked, duties and special
assignments to the Deputy Marshals;
      (6)   Shall hire Deputy Marshals in a number as permitted by the budget
allowances but subject to the following:
         (a)   The Chief Marshal shall not hire any Deputy Marshal until the
proposed Deputy Marshal is interviewed and has the approval of a police
commissioner; and
         (b)   The Chief Marshal may then hire the Deputy Marshal, but any such
hiring is still subject to the final approval of the Town Council.
      (7)   Shall have the privilege to discharge and Deputy Marshal, but any
such discharge is subject to the final approval of the Town Council; and
      (8)   All other related duties not inconsistent with state law and the
ordinances of the town.
   (C)   The Town Council shall regulate the amount of bond, compensation and
limitation of term of service of such Deputy Marshals.
   (D)   The Chief Marshal shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council.
(Ord. 11 1969, passed 7-15-1969)
§ 31.04 DEPUTY MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Park Superintendent shall be made a Deputy Town Marshal. His
or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   To enforce the closing hours of the town parks;
      (2)   To police the town parks for vandalism and to perform such other
duties as may from time to time be conferred upon said Town Park Superintendent
by the Town Chief of Police; and
      (3)   Arrest such person or persons found to be in violation of town
ordinances concerning town parks, whereby such arrests are appropriate.
   (B)   The Park Superintendent shall use his or her police radio for park use
only. He or she shall not perform any other police duties other than the
official park duties unless so authorized by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 5-1969, passed 4-15-1969)
§ 31.05 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council directs the following authority to the Town Fire Chief.
   (A)   The Town Fire Chief is directed to exercise full control and authority
of all Volunteer Fire Department members contracted with by the town during the
course of their duties as contractual employees with the town and while the
same are within the fire house or on a fire scene or exercising any of their
duties as contractual employees of the town.
   (B)   This authority is intended to detail the chain of command showing the
Fire Chief being in charge of all employees under him or her within the town
and answering only to the Town Council.
(Res. passed 9-3-1985)
§ 31.06 ADA COORDINATOR.
   (A)   In compliance with Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(“ADA”), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 794 et seq., the town shall: Name an ADA
Coordinator; adopt a grievance procedure for resolving complaints alleging
violation of Title II of the ADA; publish notice to the public regarding the
ADA; and post the ADA Coordinator’s name, office address and telephone number
along with the ADA notice and ADA grievance procedure on its website.
   (B)   The Town Council resolves:
      (1)   A person shall be designated as the ADA Coordinator for the town;
      (2)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy of
which is attached to the ordinance codified in this section, is adopted as the
town’s notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act;
      (3)   The town’s grievance procedure under the Americans with
Disabilities Act, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified in this
section, is adopted as the grievance procedure for addressing complaints
alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision of
services, activities, programs or benefits by the town; and
      (4)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the
Town Council resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA
Coordinator, notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act and the town’s
grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act on its website
and at such other locations as may be determined from time to time.
(Res. 17, 2011, passed 11-15-2011)
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
§ 31.20 COMPENSATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS, OFFICERS, BOARD AND COMMISSION
MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Town Council is responsible for setting the compensation for its elected
officials, officers, board and commission members and employees.
(Ord. 9-2022, passed 11-15-2022; Ord. 7-2023, passed 7-18-2023; Ord. 14-2023,
passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 17-2023, passed 12-19-2023; Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-6-
2024; Ord. 2-2024, passed 5-7-2024)
§ 31.21 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the U.S. Conference of Mayors’ deferred
compensation program and its attendant investment options and hereby
establishes the town’s deferred compensation plan for the voluntary
participation of all eligible town employees, elected officials and independent
contractors.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to execute for the
town, individual participation agreements with each said employee requesting
same, and to act as the administrator of the plan representing the town, and to
execute such agreements and contracts as are necessary to implement the
program.
      (2)   It is implicitly understood that other than the incidental expenses
of collecting and disbursing the employee’s deferrals and other minor
administrative matters, that there is to be no cost to the town for the
program.
(Res. 1-1992, passed 6-2-1992)
§ 31.22 MEDICAL INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   Each employee shall pay the sum of $1 for a portion of the premium cost of
the existing group health insurance coverage over the employees of the town
with said monies to be paid by every employee covered under the town’s group
health insurance policy.
(Res. 7-1996, passed - -)
§ 31.23 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The town amends Appendix A of the resolution codified herein to join
the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund, executed October 30, 1995, to add the
following positions: Economic Development Administration Assistant.
   (B)   The town shall pay the legally required percentage of gross annual
payroll of said covered employees and other initial expenses for enrolling this
employee into the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund.
   (C)   None of the classifications or positions specified in this section are
compensated on a fee basis or of any emergency nature, or in a part-time
category.
   (D)   Active participation by new members shall begin at the earliest date
possible consistent with the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund.
(Res. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 31.24 POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION.
   (A)   The town elects to become a participating unit in the 1977 Police and
Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund, as established by Pub. Law No. 9
(special session 1977), and all acts amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto.
   (B)   The town agrees to make the required contributions to PERF.
   (C)   The following are declared to be covered by the 1977 Fund: All full-
time police officers and firefighters presently employed by the town who have
met the minimum medical standards of the 1977 Fund and all subsequent employees
hired as full-time police officers and firefighters for the Police and Fire
Department.
   (D)   This section establishes a retirement fund for the employees declared
in division (C) above.
(Res. 6, passed 11-18-1996)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN COURT
Section
   
32.01   Town Court created; Town Judge
   
32.02   Court costs
   
32.03   Town Court as Ordinance Violations Bureau
§ 32.01 TOWN COURT CREATED; TOWN JUDGE.
   (A)   A Town Court shall be created for the town and shall be known as the
“Town Court of Mooresville, Indiana.”
   (B)   The Town Council hereby declares that a vacancy now exists for the
office of Town Judge and directs the President of the Town Council to appoint a
Judge thereof to serve until the next election of town officers.
   (C)   The Judge shall also act as clerk of the court, and his or her salary,
including reimbursement for clerk’s expenses, is set by Town Council.
   (D)   The Court shall be conducted, pursuant to and in accordance with
statutory power granted by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 5, 1968, passed 2-20-1968)
§ 32.02 COURT COSTS.
   Court costs for violation of town ordinances shall be set at the minimum
amount as stated by the state legislature through its acts and as the amounts
of court costs set by the state legislature for violations within the Town
Court are changed these minimums shall be the effective court costs issued by
the Town Court.
(Ord. 3, 2008, passed 3-18-2008)
§ 32.03 TOWN COURT AND ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   The Town Court shall hereafter be established as the Ordinance
Violations Bureau for the town and responsible for hearing all cases involving
ordinance violations and collecting all fines for violations of ordinances
within the town and further shall collect these monies and turn them over to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office for deposit in the town’s General Fund.
   (B)   Any monies under ordinance violations that are required to go to other
funds within the town shall be distributed by the Clerk-Treasurer after receipt
from the Town Court.
(Ord. 11, 2008, passed 11-4-2008)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Plan Commission
   
33.02   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
33.03   Department of Redevelopment
   
33.04   Economic Department Commission
   
33.05   Hospital Authority
   
33.06   Police Department
   
33.07   Fire Department
   
33.08   Purchasing Agency
   
33.09   Utility Service Board
§ 33.01 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The county’s Plan Commission is hereby designated and authorized as
the Plan Commission for the town.
   (B)   (1)   As an administrative rule of the Plan Commission, there is now
established a Technical Committee which shall consist of the President of the
Plan Commission and one other member of the Plan Commission that shall be
selected by the President of the Council, and that such two members of the
Technical Committee shall serve for a period of one year, or until their
successors are appointed.
      (2)   All improvement locations permits and/or building permit
applications which shall be applied for, pursuant to the zoning regulations of
the town, shall be reviewed and acted on by the Building Inspector and such
Technical Committee. Further, no construction, reconstruction or structural
alteration of any building pertaining to such application made shall proceed
without written approval of the Building Inspector and of such Technical
Committee, which approval of the Technical Committee may be made under the
signature of one of the two members thereof.
(Res. passed 3-2-1954; Res. 1-1975, passed 11-17-1975)
§ 33.02 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Department of Parks and Recreation. Under the provisions of I.C. 36-
10-3-1 et seq., there is hereby established a Department of Parks and
Recreation consisting of a Park and Recreation Board, a Superintendent and
other personnel as that Board determines.
   (B)   Board of Parks and Recreation membership. The Board shall be composed
of five members with two additional ex-officio members, said members being
appointed as follows:
      (1)   Four members to be appointed by the executive of the town, namely
the President of the Town Council. These members shall be appointed on the
basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation, but no more
than two members may be affiliated with the same political party;
      (2)   The two ex-officio members shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   A member of the governing body of the town’s consolidated school
corporation to be selected by that body for a term of office of one year from
the date of appointment; and
         (b)   A member of the governing body of the town’s Library Board
District with that member to be selected by the Library Board District for a
period of one year with that term expiring one year from date of appointment.
      (3)   One member from the unincorporated area of Brown Township with said
member to be appointed by the County Circuit Court Judge based upon the same
qualifications and for the same term as other regular members and said member
shall have the same powers and duties. In the event there is an additional
unincorporated area approved and added to the park district, then the Circuit
Court Judge shall make the selection of members so as to maintain the
bipartisan character of the Board as far as possible, and as each additional
member is appointed, the quorum of the Board shall increase by one.
   (C)   Term of office.
      (1)   Upon the establishment of a Board, the term of the members
initially appointed shall be: One member for a term of one year; one member for
a term of two years; one member for a term of three years; and one member for a
term of four years. As a term expires, each new appointment is for a four-year
term. All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member continues
in office until his or her successor is appointed.
      (2)   The member appointed by the Circuit Court Judge for the
unincorporated area of Brown Township shall be appointed for a term of four
years, and said term shall expire the first Monday in January after said four-
year term; however, this member shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed.
      (3)   Each of the ex-officio members shall be appointed on an annual
basis with his or her term expiring the first Monday in January of each year;
however, said member shall continue in office until his or her successor is
appointed.
   (D)   Board meetings.
      (1)   The meetings of the Board shall be public. The Board shall fix the
time and place of its meetings so that it shall meet at least quarterly.
      (2)   At its first regular meeting each year the Board shall elect a
President and a Vice President. The Vice President may act as President during
the absence or disability of the President. The Board may select a Secretary
either from within or outside its membership.
   (E)   Quorum. A majority of the members constitutes a quorum.
   (F)   Compensation of Board members. Members of the Board shall receive a
salary of $20 per meeting, and if the Board determines that it is desirable for
members or employees to attend a state, regional or national conference dealing
with parks and recreation problems, it may authorize the payment of the actual
expenses involved in attending such meetings if the amount has been made
available in the Board appropriation.
   (G)   Duties of the Board. The Board shall exercise general supervision of
and make rules for the Department.
(Ord. 4-1987, passed - -)
§ 33.03 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Redevelopment Commission. There is hereby created the Department of
Redevelopment of the town, which shall be entitled to exercise all the rights,
powers, privileges and immunities accorded to the Department by the Act. The
Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a Board of five
members to be known as the town’s Redevelopment Commission.
      (1)   (a)   There is hereby created a Board to be known as the town’s
Redevelopment Commission. Three of said Commissioners shall be appointed by the
President of the Town Council, and two shall be appointed by the Town Council.
The nominations made by the Town Council shall be transmitted to the President
of the Town Council in writing within ten days after the final passage of the
ordinance codified in this section.
         (b)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from
January 1 after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the original Commissioners shall serve
from the date of their appointment until January 1 in the second year after
their appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the
same manner as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated terms.
         (c)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall
be promptly filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
         (d)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved
by the President of the Town Council. The bond must be in a penal sum of
$15,000 and must be conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of
his or her office and the accounting for all monies and property that may come
into his or her hands or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall
be paid by the Redevelopment District.
      (2)   Such Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by the
laws of the state as from time to time amended and shall qualify as therein
provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the
duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act, including but not
limited to the following qualifications.
         (a)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age
and must be a resident of the town. If a Commissioner ceases to be qualified
under this section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
         (b)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the town shall receive a
salary, but such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for
expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
         (c)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest
in any contract, employment, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this
chapter and the Act. However, any property required for redevelopment purposes
in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but only by
gift or condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this section of this
chapter is void.
      (3)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer charged by law for the performance of
duties in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same
duties with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of
Redevelopment, except as otherwise provided for in the Act.
   (B)   Redevelopment Authority.
      (1)   The town’s Redevelopment Authority is established pursuant to I.C.
36-7-14.5-1 et seq. and further authorizes that the President of the Town
Council appoint the initial three-member Board, each of which must be a
resident of the town.
      (2)   Each member appointed is entitled to serve a three-year term, and
any member may be reappointed to subsequent terms. If a vacancy occurs on the
Board, the President of the Town Council shall fill the vacancy by appointing a
new member for the remainder of the vacated term. A member may be removed for
cause by the President of the Town Council.
      (3)   Each member shall take and subscribe an oath of office under I.C.
5-4-1 before entering upon the duties of office, and the oath shall be endorsed
upon the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the Town
Council and the Redevelopment Authority. No member shall receive a salary and
no profit or money of the Authority shall inure to the benefit of any member.
      (4)   Immediately after January 15 of each year, the Board shall hold an
organizational meeting at which time it shall elect one of the members
President, another Vice President and another Secretary-Treasurer to perform
the duties of those offices. These officers serve from the date of their
election and until their successors are elected and qualified. The Board may
also elect an Assistant Secretary-Treasurer.
      (5)   The Board shall meet when called by the President of the Board or
any two members of the Board, and a majority of the members constitutes a
quorum, and the concurrence of a majority of the members is necessary to
authorize any action by the Board.
      (6)   The Board shall adopt such bylaws and rules as it considers
necessary for the proper conduct of its duties and the safeguarding of the
funds and property entrusted to its care.
      (7)   The Board shall have all authority, powers and duties as set out in
I.C. 36-7-14.5-1 et seq.
      (8)   The members appointed by the President of the Town Council shall
execute their oath of office and hold an organizational meeting for the
purposes of election of officers, adoption of bylaws, rules and regulations and
all other acts and duties required by their appointment within two weeks from
January 15, 1992.
(Ord. 19, passed 1-2-1990; Ord. 27-1991, passed 1-7-1992)
§ 33.04 ECONOMIC DEPARTMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   An executive department of the town is now created and shall be known
as the Economic Department Commission.
   (B)   (1)   The Economic Development Commission shall be under the control
of a Board of three members. The members of said Commission shall be appointed
as follows one of the members so appointed shall be selected by the President
of the Town Council; one shall be nominated by the County Council; and one
shall be nominated by the Town Council.
      (2)   Such Commissioners shall take office upon appointment and their
terms shall run the following number of years from February 1, 1973, following
such original appointment:
         (a)   The Commissioner nominated by the Town Council: Two years;
         (b)   The Commissioner nominated by the County Council: One year; and
         (c)   The Commissioner selected by the President of the Town Council:
Three years.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall be appointed as a Commissioner of the town’s
Economic Development Commission who is not a resident of the county or who is
not an owner of a business in the county. If any such appointed Commissioner
shall cease to qualify in one of the above categories, his or her appointment
on said Board shall thereby terminate and his or her office shall become
vacant.
      (2)   The three-member Commission originally appointed shall meet within
30 days after full appointment of all such Commissioners at a time and place
designated by the President of the Town Council for the purpose of organization
and shall meet to reorganize each February each succeeding year. At such
organizational meeting, the Commission known as the Economic Development
Commission shall elect one of its members as President, one as Vice President
and one as Secretary, each of which officer shall serve under date of his or
her selection until January 31 next following his or her election until his or
her successor is elected and qualifies.
   (D)   The Economic Development Commission shall be authorized to adopt such
bylaws, rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct
of its proceedings and shall have all the powers, duties, responsibilities and
limitations as provided by the General Assembly of the state in the Act known
and cited as “Municipal Economic Development Act of 1965” in the Acts of 1965,
Chapter 402, § 1, Page 1255, and all Acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
(Ord. 14, 1972, passed 11-21-1972)
§ 33.05 HOSPITAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   A Hospital Authority is hereby created, and by virtue of the
provisions of the state’s Hospital Authority Act (I.C. 5-1-4-1 et seq.) said
Authority shall be a body corporate and politic to be known as the “Hospital
Authority of Mooresville” for the purpose of financing, acquiring,
constructing, equipping and leasing a project or projects to participating
hospitals located in the town or refunding outstanding indebtedness of
participating hospitals located in the town as authorized by state code, and
for any and other purposes, together with full authority, all as authorized by
said Act and any amendment thereof.
   (B)   The town authorizes the executive of the Town Council to appoint five
residents of the town as the Directors of the Hospital Authority, pursuant to
state code.
   (C)   The Hospital Authority shall conduct its organization and meetings
pursuant to I.C. 5-1-4-1 et seq. and carry out the provisions of said Act in a
speedy and timely fashion.
   (D)   Each Director to the Hospital Authority appointed by the Town Council
President shall, within ten days from said appointment, and before entering
upon his or her duties, take and subscribe an oath of office and cause the same
to be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and then proceed to have an
organizational meeting for the election of officers, adoption of bylaws, rules
and regulations and all other acts and duties required by his or her
appointment, and as found necessary for the conduct of his or her proceedings
and carrying out his or her duties as Directors of the Hospital Authority of
the town.
(Res. 8-1991, passed 11-3-1991; Ord. 19-1991, passed 11-5-1991)
§ 33.06 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners.
      (1)   A Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners is established for the
town, and three Commissioners shall be appointed by the town legislative body
pursuant to I.C. 36-8-9-3.1.
      (2)   The town’s Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners shall be
governed by I.C. 36-8-9 et seq. and all amendments thereto.
      (3)   The initial salary of the members of the Board of Metropolitan
Police Commissioners shall be $0.
   (B)   Police reserve program. Officers in the reserve program shall be
appointed by the Chief of Police with final approval by the town’s Metropolitan
Police Commission. Officers in the reserve program shall be known as the town’s
reserve police officers.
      (1)   Goals. The goals of the reserve officer program are as follows:
         (a)   To establish a quality reserve program that maximizes the
resources of the reserve officers whether they are young people interested in
starting a career in law enforcement or career officers winding down a career
and to provide services to the Police Department that enhance normal police
officers’ abilities to perform their duties in a manner that maximizes their
capabilities;
         (b)   To have the reserve program serve the community and represent
the Department in a manner that is consistent with public trust and pride
through training and dedication; and
         (c)   To develop reserve officers that are efficient, knowledgeable
and dedicated to carrying out the missions of the reserve program through
actions consistent with Police Department policies in general.
      (2)   Qualifications. There shall be five officers in the reserve
program, unless the Council determines during the annual budget process that
more or less are needed. Any benefits such as uniforms or equipment shall not
be considered compensation. Reserve officers shall undergo the same selection
process as full-time officers. Police reserve officers may not be members of
the regular Police Department, but shall have all of the same police powers as
regular members, except as limited by the rules of the Department, in
accordance with I.C. 36-8-3-20, as amended. A police reserve is a probationary
position for the initial one year from the date of appointment.
         (a)   All police reserves must be at least 21 years of age.
         (b)   All police reserves must have a valid driver’s license.
         (c)   All police reserves must pass a criminal background
investigation and criminal history test; they shall not have any felony or
misdemeanor convictions.
         (d)   All police reserves must meet the residential requirement of the
Department.
         (e)   All police reserves must first complete a pre-basic law
enforcement course certified by the state’s Law Enforcement Training Board or
complete the reserve course certified by the state’s Law Enforcement Training
Board before the date of appointment.
         (f)   All police reserves must attend all mandatory in-service
Department training.
         (g)   All police reserves shall be required to work a minimum of 16
hours per month.
         (h)   All police reserves must follow all Department rules and
regulations, policies and standard operating procedures.
         (i)   All police reserves shall be under the direct supervision of the
Chief of Police or any other officer falling within the chain of command as
designated by the Chief of Police.
         (j)   All police reserves shall be subject to dismissal by the Chief
of Police of the town.
         (k)   Probationary reserve officers shall not perform patrol functions
with other probationary officers.
         (l)   Probationary reserve officers shall not have civilian riders.
         (m)   Reserve officers shall not receive any compensation while
utilizing the town’s Police Department property or uniforms, other than that
permitted through the Chief of Police.
         (n)   Reserve officers will be required to complete the firearms
training course (including the use of force training) and emergency vehicle
operations course before being released to patrol on their own.
         (o)   A reserve officer’s authority is limited by the training
received to date. Reserve officers will be required to complete the field
training program within the first probationary year in order to be eligible for
final appointment and being taken off probation.
      (3)   Uniforms and equipment. Uniforms and equipment for reserve officers
are the same as those for full-time officers performing like conditions.
         (a)   Reserve officers will wear the same uniform as full-time
officers. Identification of reserve officers shall designate the reserve
officer status.
         (b)   Equipment issued to reserve officers will be the same as the
full-time officers for the functions that the reserve officer will perform.
      (4)   In-service training. Reserve officers will be required to receive
in-service training equivalent to that statutorily required for full-time
officers performing like functions.
      (5)   Use of force training. Reserve officers shall train in use of force
policies and shall be tested for firearms proficiency with the same frequency
as full-time officers.
(Ord. 3, 1997, passed 1-1-1997; Ord. 3, 2000, passed 4-18-2000; Ord. 7-2021,
passed 5-18-2021)
§ 33.07 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief and his or her designated deputies of the town are
hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the Fire Code published and provided
by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and his or her designated deputies of the town are
hereby authorized to enter upon property located within the town and inspect
said property and any and all improvements thereon for the purpose of enforcing
said Fire Code.
(Ord. 13, 1968, passed 6- -1968)
§ 33.08 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council Purchasing Agency (the “Purchasing Agency”) is
established as the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Council and policies adopted by the Purchasing Agency.
   (C)   The Purchasing Agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the town.
   (D)   The Purchasing Agency may designate in writing as any employee of town
as a purchasing agent.
(Ord. 12, 1998, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 33.09 UTILITY SERVICE BOARD.
   The Town Council shall act as a Utility Service Board of the stormwater
facilities for the town, and all control of the Department of Stormwater
Management shall be under the Town Council, and all existing control shall be
turned over to said Board in a timely fashion not later than 30 days from the
date of execution of the ordinance codified in this section.
(Ord. 10, 2007, passed - -)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Personnel Policy
   
34.02   Sick leave and vacation plan
   
34.03   Travel policy and reimbursements
   
34.04   Hiring policy
   
34.05   Nepotism; conflicts of interest
Purchasing Procedures
   
34.20   Purchase orders
   
34.21   Credit cards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The town’s Personnel Policy is adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full.
(Res. 3A, passed 2-6-2007; Ord. 1-2021, passed 2-2-2021)
§ 34.02 SICK LEAVE AND VACATION PLAN.
   (A)   All employees with more than six months and less than one-year
seniority shall have five working days’ sick leave and five days’ vacation for
which he or she shall receive regular salary. All employees with one year or
more seniority shall have ten working days’ sick leave and ten working days’
vacation for which he or she shall receive regular salary.
   (B)   It shall be at the discretion of the Town Council to grant additional
time off if circumstances warrant.
(Res. passed 3-2-1965)
§ 34.03 TRAVEL POLICY AND REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   Any employee filing for a reimbursable expense for mileage, meals,
lodging, parking, fees, hotels, registration fees or any other work-related
expense to be reimbursed by the town shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, attaching all receipts and documentation, a claim for reimbursement to
be approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   All claims for reimbursement to employees for business-related
expenses shall be approved by the Town Council prior to payment to the
employee.
(Res. 19, 2004, passed 12-7-2004)
§ 34.04 HIRING POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the town that all employees hired by the
town shall first be approved by the Town Council, including the replacement of
existing positions and determinations as to the creation of all new positions.
Any opening for employment within the town, whether through retirement, or
other openings created for various reasons, shall first be reviewed by the Town
Council to make a determination of whether or not the position needs to be
filled by hiring a new employee, vacated, filled by an existing employee
transfer or dealt with in any other manner the Town Council deems appropriate.
   (B)   This policy shall remain in effect until specifically vacated by the
Town Council.
(Res. 2, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 34.05 NEPOTISM; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in employment with the town and in contracting
with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local government
services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective July 1,
2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   The town shall have a nepotism policy and a contracting with a unit
policy that complies with the requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter
“nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with a unit by a
relative policy”), and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town’s nepotism policy is hereby established by adopting the
requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and including all future supplements
and amendments thereto which become law from time to time and making them a
part hereof as if fully set out herein. In addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2,
in effect on July 1, 2012, is attached to the resolution codified in this
section.
   (D)   The town’s “contracting with a unit by a relative” policy is
established by adopting the requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-21 and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto and making them a part
hereof as if fully set out herein. In addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-21 is
attached to the resolution codified in this section.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed.”
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and 36-5-2-
9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created herein and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the “contracting with a unit by a relative”
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a transfer from the direct line of supervision or other
curative action. An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to
abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the compliance and with
mandated certifications of the “contracting with a unit by a relative” policy
may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials. Upon any taking of these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 are annexed in
the resolution codified in this section.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for public
inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 3, 2012, passed 6-19-2012)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 34.20 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   (A)   Before any item, service or commodity is ordered, purchased or
contracted therefor, in an amount in excess of $10, by any person or on behalf
of the town, or any department thereof, there shall be issued a written order
to purchase said item, service or commodity.
   (B)   Said purchase order shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer upon
the requisition of any member of the Town Council.
   (C)   Said purchase order shall fully describe the purchase to be made and
shall include the price to be paid if the same is practical or the most
economical price is known.
   (D)   Said purchase order shall be issued in triplicate, two copies to be
given to the person making said purchase, and same shall be presented to the
seller from whom the purchase is made.
   (E)   Upon the making of said purchase, the seller shall insert the price
charged, fully describe the purchase and return one copy to the person making
the purchase. That person shall then return the purchase order, as completed,
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 61-2, passed 1-3-1961)
§ 34.21 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The town shall enter into a business agreement with Citizens Bank of
Mooresville for use of a credit card through Citizens Bank subject to its
corporate account cardholder agreement which has been reviewed by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The town shall pay any fees pursuant to the agreement for use of a
credit card along with entering into an agreement to show authorized users and
amounts (i.e., credit limits) for use of the card.
   (C)   Authorized users shall include but not be limited to the following
department heads: Park Department Director, Director of Street Department,
Superintendent of Sewage Treatment Plant, Town Court Judge, Clerk-Treasurer,
Police Chief, Fire Chief, First Deputy and said users to be set out by name and
kept on file with Citizens Bank of Mooresville.
   (D)   As department heads change, the Clerk-Treasurer shall advise Citizens
Bank of the name of the new user for that department. The town shall also
specify and set out the respective credit limits for each user and hereby
designates the Town Council President and Clerk-Treasurer to execute any
documents required to finalize the agreement with Citizens Bank, including the
specification of credit limits.
   (E)   The credit card will remain in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and
authorized users will be required to complete documentation to check the credit
card out of the office. Each department head shall be responsible for the card
while in his or her respective possession and is required to return the credit
card to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office upon completion of use.
   (F)   Use of this card must be directly related to a specified public
purpose of the department head, which is subject to approval of the Town
Council when the card claim is processed.
(Res. 12-2022, passed 5-3-2022)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Excise food and beverage tax
   
35.02   Fixed assets
   
35.03   Investment of public funds
Fees
   
35.15   Facsimile transmissions fee
   
35.16   Accident fees
   
35.17   Vehicle inspection fee
   
35.18   Life support services fees
   
35.19   Transaction convenience fee
   
35.20   Body camera video fees
Capital Asset Policy
   
35.30   General provisions
   
35.31   Definition and threshold levels for capital assets
   
35.32   Valuations of capital assets
   
35.33   Assets by major category
   
35.34   Depreciation methods
   
35.35   Fixed asset acquisition
   
35.36   Asset transfers and dispositions
   
35.37   Periodic inventories
   
35.38   Duties of Clerk-Treasurer
   
35.39   Responsibilities of department heads
   
35.40   Procedure for completing the fixed asset transfer/delete form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 EXCISE FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX.
   (A)   Food and beverage tax adopted.
      (1)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the Town Council by the
General Assembly of the state, under I.C. 6-9-27-1 through 6-9-27-10, there is
hereby adopted a food and beverage tax to be imposed upon any transaction in
which food or beverage is furnished, prepared or served:
         (a)   For consumption at a location or on equipment provided by a
retail merchant;
         (b)   In the town in which the tax is imposed; and
         (c)   By retail merchant for consideration.
      (2)   (a)   The transactions described in division (A)(1) above include,
but are not limited to, transactions in which food and beverage is:
            1.   Served by retail merchant off the merchant’s premises;
            2.   Sold by a retail merchant who ordinarily bags, wraps or
packages the food or beverage for immediate consumption on or near the retail
merchant’s premises, including food or beverage on a “take out” or “to go”
basis; or
            3.   Sold by a street vendor.
         (b)   The town food and beverage tax does not apply to the furnishing,
preparing or serving of a food or beverage in a transaction that is exempt, or
to the extent the transaction is exempt, from the state gross retail tax
imposed by I.C. 6-2.5 et seq.
   (B)   Percent of gross retail income. The food and beverage tax imposed on a
food or beverage transaction described in division (A) above equals 1% of the
gross retail income received by the merchant from the transaction. For purposes
of this section, the gross retail income received by the retail merchant from a
transaction does not include the amount of tax imposed on the transaction under
I.C. 6-2.5 et seq.
   (C)   Payment of tax.
      (1)   The tax imposed under this section shall be imposed, paid and
collected in the same manner that the state gross retail tax is imposed, paid
and collected under I.C. 6-2.5 et seq. However, the return to be filed with the
payment of the tax imposed under this section may be made on a separate return
or may be combined with the return filed for the payment of the state gross
retail tax, as prescribed by the Department of State Revenue.
      (2)   The amounts received from the tax imposed under this section shall
be paid monthly by the State Treasurer to the Clerk-Treasurer upon warrants
issued by the State Auditor.
   (D)   Food and Beverage Receipts Fund.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a Food and Beverage
Receipts Fund (the “Fund”).
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit in this Fund all amounts
received under this section.
      (3)   Any money earned from investment of money in the Fund becomes a
part of the Fund.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer for the town shall apply the monies held in the
Fund as directed by the Town Council for the financing, construction, operation
or maintenance of the following:
         (a)   Sanitary sewers or wastewater treatment facilities;
         (b)   Park or recreational facilities;
         (c)   Drainage or flood control facilities; and
         (d)   Water treatment, storage or distribution facilities.
      (5)   The Town Council may pledge money in the Fund to pay bonds issued,
loans obtained and lease payments or other obligations incurred by or on behalf
of the town or a special taxing district in the town to provide the facilities
described in division (D)(4) above. This division (D)(5) applies only to bonds,
loans, lease payments or obligations that are issued, obtained or incurred
after the date on which the tax is imposed under division (B) above. A pledge
of the money in the Fund for the financing, construction, operation or
maintenance of any of the possible itemized improvements is an enforceable
pledge under I.C. 5-1-14-4.
   (E)   Application. The tax imposed by this section applies to transactions
that occur after the last day of the month that succeeds the month in which
this section is adopted.
(Ord. 8-1990, passed 6-27-1990)
§ 35.02 FIXED ASSETS.
   The fixed asset ledger shall contain all fixed assets purchased with a value
of $1,000 or greater, and all such purchases and assets shall be entered on the
fixed asset ledger of the town.
(Ord. 5, 1996, passed 5-26-1996)
§ 35.03 INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer acting as the investing officer is authorized to invest
in certificates of deposit under certain conditions, in accordance with I.C. 5-
13-9-5.3, as follows.
   (A)   The funds are initially invested through a depository that is selected
by the investing officer.
   (B)   The selected depository arranges for the deposit of the funds in
certificates of deposit in one or more federally insured banks or savings and
loan associations, wherever located, for the account of the town.
   (C)   The full amount of the principal and any accrued interest of each
certificate of deposit are covered by insurance of any federal deposit
insurance agency.
   (D)   The selected depository acts as a custodian for the town with respect
to the certificates of deposit issued for its account.
   (E)   At the same time that the town’s funds are deposited and the
certificates of deposit are issued, the selected depository receives an amount
of deposits covered by insurance of any federal deposit insurance agency from
customers of other institutions, wherever located, at least equal to the amount
of the funds invested by the town through the selected depository.
(Res. 2, 2011, passed 2-15-2011)
FEES
§ 35.15 FACSIMILE TRANSMISSIONS FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a facsimile transmission fee to be charged
by the town whereby the town shall charge $5 per page for facsimile
transmission of documents by the Town Court. Said fee to be paid to the Town
Court with the Town Court providing an accounting on a monthly basis along with
depositing said monies with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for entry into the Record
Perpetuation Fund.
   (B)   There is established a Record Perpetuation Fund for purposes of
depositing all fees paid for facsimile transmissions to the Town Court. The
funds in the Records Perpetuation Fund are to be used for the preservation of
Court records and the improvement of Court record-keeping systems and equipment
all by local appropriation.
(Ord. 13 1993, passed 9-30-1993)
§ 35.16 ACCIDENT FEES.
   (A)   The town’s Police Department shall charge fees consistent with I.C. 9-
26-9-3 allowing for a fee of $10 for each accident report that has been
certified to the state’s Police Main Depository and $5 for any other report.
   (B)   The fee collected shall be deposited in the accident report account
and may be used for the local law enforcement Continuing Education Fund
established under I.C. 5-2-8-2.
(Res. 7, 2007, passed 6-19-2007; Ord. 9-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 35.17 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   The town’s Police Department shall charge an inspection fee of $5 for all
inspections done, pursuant to I.C. 9-17-2-12, with all fees to be deposited in
an inspection fee account in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office with the proceeds
from the account to be appropriated and used strictly for a local law
enforcement continuing education fund established by I.C. 5-2-8-2.
(Ord. 14, 2010, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 35.18 LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES FEES.
   The town shall charge a fee of $300 for services provided by an advanced
life support paramedic of the town for services within the town or Brown
Township. Services provided by a town paramedic for advanced life support
outside of the town or Brown Township shall be a fee of $300 plus an additional
nonresidency fee of $75. The services shall be billed through the entity
providing transportation through an ambulance service when that entity is the
primary provider of transporting the recipient of the services. This service
structure shall go into effect upon the town’s receipt of the appropriate state
licensing.
(Ord. 1, 2013, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 35.19 TRANSACTION CONVENIENCE FEE.
   The town creates a convenience fee pursuant to state code in the amount of
$3 per payment by bank card or credit card for a user fee charge to be
collected as a part of each payment made pursuant to a bank card or credit card
transaction.
(Res. 3, 2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 35.20 BODY CAMERA VIDEO FEES.
   The town shall charge the following fees for body camera video processing/
redaction pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-2(k) and 5-14-3-8(g):
 
Up to one hour or processing/redaction            $100
Between one and two hours of processing/redaction $125
More than two hours of processing/redaction       $150
 
(Ord. 9-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 35.30 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The fixed asset policy has been revised and the new policy will
be referred to as the capital asset policy. This revision was instituted to
change the minimum dollar value of capital assets reported on financial reports
from $500 to $5,000 and to include infrastructure assets. The revision is
related to the implementation of the new reporting model, Governmental
Standards Accounting Board Statement 34.
      (2)   The new reporting model will require the town to depreciate capital
assets. Recommendations from several sources suggested a capital asset
threshold of $5,000. An asset with a value under $5,000 will be expensed in the
year of purchase.
   (B)   The town has established a comprehensive fixed assets management
system in order to provide a higher degree of control over its considerable
investment in capital assets and to be able to demonstrate accountability to
its various constituencies: Citizens; rate-payers; oversight bodies; and
regulators.
   (C)   The purpose of establishing a formalized capital assets management
system is fivefold:
      (1)   To safeguard the investments of the citizens of the town;
      (2)   To fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
      (3)   To provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement policies;
      (4)   To provide data for financial reporting; and
      (5)   To demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
   (D)   This portion of the policy and procedure manual, capital assets is
limited to outlining the broad classifications of property, the definitions of
assets, methods of creating asset data, acquisitions of transfers and
retirements of town-owned property for which the town is fiscal agent. It does
not include data processing, programming requirements or computer operations
procedures.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.31 DEFINITION AND THRESHOLD LEVELS FOR CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAPITAL ASSETS.
         (a)   Land, land improvements, buildings, building improvements,
construction in progress, machinery and equipment, vehicles and infrastructure.
All land and land improvements will be capitalized but not depreciated. All
items with a useful life of more than one year, and having a unit cost or
network cost of $5,000 or more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by
lease-purchase agreements and donated items).
         (b)   A CAPITAL ASSET meeting this criterion will be reported and
depreciated in the government-wide financial statements. Assets that are not
capitalized (items less than $5,000) are expended in the year of acquisition.
An inventory will be kept on all computers and on all items costing less than
$5,000 but more than $1,000. They will be classified as non-capitalized items
in the fixed asset management system (GFAMS).
         (c)   Exceptions are:
            1.   Items costing less than the above limits which are permanently
installed as a part of the cost of original construction or installation of a
larger building or equipment unit will be included in the capitalized cost of
the larger unit;
            2.   Modular equipment added subsequent to original construction of
a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together to form larger
units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to capital assets
even though the cost of individual items is less than such limits; and
            3.   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases and similar items added
subsequent to original construction which are custom-made for a specific place
and not adaptable elsewhere will be expended.
         (d)   Purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant
requirements or the above procedures, whichever are the most restrictive.
   (B)   Threshold levels for capital assets. The following schedule will be
followed for the different types of capital assets:
 Tracking/Inventory Capitalize/Depreciate
                         Tracking/Inventory Capitalize/Depreciate
Building improvements    $1                 $5,000
Building                 $1                 $5,000
Construction in progress $1                 All/capitalize only
Infrastructure           $5,000             $5,000
Land                     $1                 All/capitalize only
Land improvements        $1                 $5,000
Machinery and equipment  $1,000             $5,000
Vehicle                  $1,000             $5,000
 
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.32 VALUATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets should be recorded at historical or original cost.
Normally, the cost recorded as the purchase price or construction costs of the
asset, but also included is any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred
to place the asset in its intended location and intended use. Such costs could
include the following:
      (1)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
      (2)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
      (3)   Damage payments;
      (4)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
      (5)   Architect and accounting fees;
      (6)   Insurance premiums during construction;
      (7)   Transportation charges; and
      (8)   Interest costs during construction.
   (B)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair market
value on the date donated.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.33 ASSETS BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that each asset
category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for records
maintenance be fully aware of the categorization system. This section further
clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
   (A)   Land. Specified land, lots, parcels or acreage owned by the town, its
various departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the method or date of
acquisition.
   (B)   Improvements other than buildings.
      (1)   Examples of town assets in this category are walks, parking areas
and drives, fencing or retaining walls, pools, fountains, planters, underground
sprinkler systems and other similar items.
      (2)   Examples of town utility assets in this category are water supply
mains, collection sewers, wells, dams, fences, intake pipes, manholes and fire
hydrants.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   All structures designed and erected to house equipment, services or
functions are included. This includes systems, services and fixtures within the
buildings and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes, canopies,
areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles and all other such units that serve the
building.
      (2)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, sprinkler systems, alarm systems, sound systems and
surveillance systems, passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in
casework, walk-in coolers and freezers, fixed shelving and other fixed
equipment are included with the building, if owned. Communications antennas
and/or towers are not included as buildings. These are parts of the equipment
units that they serve.
   (D)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the fixed asset management system not previously
classified. Included within this category are office mechanical equipment,
office furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance
equipment, communication equipment, Police, Fire, Sanitation and Park
Department equipment, laboratory equipment, vehicles, road equipment, aircraft,
emergency equipment, earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil defense
equipment, data processing equipment and zoo wildlife. All supplies and
replacement of parts are excluded.
   (E)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that normally
can be preserved for a significant greater number of years than most capital
assets and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include roads,
streetlights, traffic signals, street signs, drainage systems and water systems
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
      (2)   Additions and improvements to infrastructure should be capitalized
because they increase the capacity or efficiency of the asset. Maintenance
costs that allow the asset to continue to be used in its originally established
life will be expensed.
      (3)   The historical reporting requirement of GASB 34 required the town
to only report on items put into use from 1980 forward.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.34 DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   (A)   The town will be depreciating capital assets, except roads/streets, by
using either the composite/group method of depreciation or the straight-line
method. There will be no salvage value. Composite depreciation refers to
calculating depreciation for a collection of dissimilar assets, while group
depreciation is for similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually
to the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. When an asset is disposed
of or sold, the asset is removed from the group and the accumulated
depreciation associated with that asset is also removed. A gain or loss will
never be reported on the asset when using the composite method.
   (B)   A full year’s depreciation will be taken when the asset is placed in
service and no depreciation recorded in the year it is sold or disposed of.
Depreciation will be calculated at year end. Dissimilar assets will be grouped
by useful lives and similar assets by networks. Land is not depreciated
according to generally accepted accounting principles.
   (C)   The following is the list of groups used for depreciation:
      (1)   Street lights;
      (2)   Street signs;
      (3)   Traffic signals; and
      (4)   Flood walls.
   (D)   All assets accounted for in GFAMS computer program will be depreciated
using the straight-line method of depreciation. The following is a list of
useful lives:
      (1)   Vehicles: Five years;
      (2)   Office equipment: Five years;
      (3)   Heavy equipment: Ten years;
      (4)   Fire trucks: 15 years;
      (5)   Buildings: 40 years;
      (6)   HVAC systems, roofing: 20 years;
      (7)   Land improvements, structure (parking lots, sidewalks, fencing): 20
years;
      (8)   Land improvements, ground work (golf course, ball field,
landscaping): 20 years; and
      (9)   Grounds equipment (mowers, tractors, attachments): 15 years.
   (E)   Roads and streets will be based on the modified approach. The modified
approach is an alternative to depreciation. It can be used on infrastructure
assets that are a part of a network or subsystem. There are two requirements
that must be met in order to follow the modified approach. First, the assets
should be managed using an asset management system. Second, the government
should document that the assets are being preserved at or above a condition
level established by the government. A team of town engineers with experience
in road condition assessments will perform a review of one-third of the roads,
streets and alleys annually to determine the condition level. Through this
process, every road, street and alley in the town will be reviewed in a three-
year period. The town will ensure the arterial and residential roads, streets
and alleys will be maintained.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.35 FIXED ASSET ACQUISITION.
   (A)   Methods.
      (1)   The method of acquisition is not a determining factor. Each
department should report items acquired by:
         (a)   Regular purchase;
         (b)   Lease purchase agreement;
         (c)   Construction by town personnel;
         (d)   Construction by an outside contractor;
         (e)   Resolution or condemnation;
         (f)   Donation or contribution; and/or
         (g)   Addition to an existing asset, transfer from another department,
trade or barter.
      (2)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement meets
any one of the following criteria:
         (a)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by
the end of the lease term;
         (b)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
         (c)   The lease term is equal to 75% or more of the estimated economic
life of the leased property; or
         (d)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception
of the leaser excluding executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair value
of the leased property.
      (3)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be
recorded as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial
statement.
      (4)   If the town purchases like items exceeding $10,000 per year, all
such purchases and/or leases shall be entered into with the prior approval or
subsequent ratification. The approval is by the Town Council by ordinance or
resolution duly passed by said Town Council.
   (B)   Process for asset purchase.
      (1)   The department head initiates the proper purchasing procedure
(purchase requisition) to order the desired item. After delivery is made, the
department originating the request acknowledges receipt of the item, completes
the proper payment voucher and sends it to the accounting department.
      (2)   After the payment voucher has been completely processed, yet before
it gets filed, the Clerk-Treasurer goes through all payment vouchers weekly to
identify new fixed asset purchases. He or she then makes copies of the payment
vouchers as backup of his or her data entry into the fixed asset management
system (GRAMS).
      (3)   The following applies to the town’s Sewer Department: Where major
projects are involved and actual classification of the fixed assets are not
known until the end of the project or are based on allocations or engineering
estimates, costs should be accumulated in work-in-progress accounts until
completion of the work.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.36 ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   Property should not be transferred, turned-in for auction or disposed
of without prior approval of the department head. A fixed asset transfer/delete
form should be sent to the Clerk-Treasurer in all cases.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, TRANSFERS are defined as any movement
of an asset by virtue of change in location, either by account, department,
building, floor or room. If an asset is stolen, the department should notify
the Clerk-Treasurer as the town’s Chief Financial Officer.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.37 PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory will be conducted in each department on a rotating
five-year schedule. The Clerk-Treasurer will conduct spot checks on a random
basis. Department heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory
charged to their department. A list of the inventory on file will be sent to
each department twice a year. A year-end inventory will be conducted by each
department to test the accuracy of the inventory list on file.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.38 DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   It is the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to identify and keep record of all
town owned or leased equipment, buildings, land and other property.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.39 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the department head to act as or designate
a steward for each piece of property. The steward will become the focal point
for questions regarding availability, condition and usage of the asset as well
as the contact during the physical inventory process.
   (B)   Someone should be designated to record the receipt of the asset, to
examine the asset to make sure that no damage was incurred during shipment and
to make sure that the asset was received in working order.
   (C)   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition. It is necessary to have a responsible person available for questions
that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to borrow the
asset.
   (D)   The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which
it was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In addition,
the steward should report any property damage or theft.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 35.40 PROCEDURE FOR COMPLETING THE FIXED ASSET TRANSFER/DELETE FORM.
   (A)   The fixed asset transfer/delete form is a dual-purpose form for
transfer or retirement (disposal) of property.
   (B)   The main points to be remembered when using this form are:
      (1)   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the asset;
      (2)   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the needed entries;
      (3)   Write legibly;
      (4)   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
      (5)   Enter information in the correct row, depending on whether
transferring or deleting an asset;
      (6)   Have department head sign at the bottom of the form confirming the
move; and
      (7)   Return the form to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Res. 9, passed 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 36: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Internal Control Standards
   
36.01   Policy adopted
   
36.02   Purpose
   
36.03   Control environment
   
36.04   Risk assessment
   
36.05   Control activities
   
36.06   Information and communication
   
36.07   Monitoring activities
Identity Theft
   
36.20   Title
   
36.21   Purpose
   
36.22   Definitions
   
36.23   Findings
   
36.24   Establishing a covered account
   
36.25   Access to covered account information
   
36.26   Credit card payments
   
36.27   Red flags
   
36.28   Prevention and mitigation
   
36.29   Updates to program
   
36.30   Administration
Emergency Management
   
36.45   National incident management system
   
36.46   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 36.01 POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the internal control policy attached hereto and
incorporated in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved
herein.
   (C)   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of
the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 5, 2016, passed 6-30-2016)
§ 36.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Town Council’s internal
control objectives to all employees and elected officials of the town and to
firmly commit the town to the 17 key principles of internal control as
established by the state’s Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 5, 2016, passed 6-30-2016)
§ 36.03 CONTROL ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values. 
      (1)   The town has the responsibility to establish and maintain an
adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the Town Council, various
boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and others reliable
financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of internal control
is necessary for the town to discharge these responsibilities.
      (2)   (a)   Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to
unauthorized access and use, transactions are properly recorded in the
financial records and the resultant financial information is reliable. External
organizations and stakeholders of the town rely on financial information to
make decisions toward appropriations, loans and other debt, grants and other
contractual relationships. Town resources are dependent upon the system of
internal control.
         (b)   Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of
the town’s systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C.
5-11-1-27. The safeguarding of town assets and the reliability which the town
and others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the
effectiveness of the internal control process.
      (3)   As the fiscal body, Town Council expects the town administration to
effect an internal control environment with policies and procedures necessary
to provide reasonable assurance that practices cause effective and efficient
operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws
and regulations.
      (4)   The system of internal control is meant to keep the town on course
toward its mission and to minimize surprises. The system promotes efficiency,
minimizes risks of asset loss, helps ensure the reliability of financial
information and compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (5)   Internal control is a process, a means to an end and not an end
unto itself. The control environment is the foundation upon which all
components of internal control are based. It sets the tone for town operations.
Internal control is about people, operations, communications and the work
environment. It is not about policies and forms though it takes shape through
the implementation of relevant policies, procedures and practices. Internal
control can provide reasonable assurance but no system of control can provide
absolute assurance to the Town Council and other users of financial
information.
      (6)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be charged with:
         (a)   Conveying periodic messages of the town’s internal control
philosophy and expectations to all employees;
         (b)   Evaluating the town’s internal control system for weaknesses on
a periodic (but no less frequently than annual) basis, providing solutions to
any discovered weaknesses and inform employees of necessary changes in
procedures;
         (c)   Working to establish a confidential reporting system for
individuals to report suspected fraud and abuse of internal control policies;
and
         (d)   Working to institute procedures to address violations of
policies and consequences for violations.
   (B)   The oversight body oversees the entity’s internal control system.
      (1)   As the fiscal body for the town, the Town Council is responsible
for setting the institutional expectations for internal control, ensuring
management is aware of those expectations, requiring the upward communications
channels are open through all levels of management and evaluating management’s
effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment and implementing sound
control policies and procedures.
      (2)   As the town’s Chief Fiscal Officer, the Clerk-Treasurer will be the
Town Council’s chief agent in implementing and managing the internal control
policies and procedures.
   (C)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the entity’s objectives.
      (1)   Individuals with delegated approval authority, e.g., elected
officials and department heads, are responsible for establishing, maintaining
and supporting a system of internal controls within their areas of
responsibility and for creating the control environment that encourages
compliance with town policies and procedures.
      (2)   Adequate supervision is necessary to monitor that internal controls
are operating as intended and to help ensure the reliability of accounting and
operational controls by pointing out errors, omissions, exceptions and
inconsistencies in procedures. Staff in leadership roles are responsible for
the application of this policy and the design, development, implementation and
maintenance of systems of internal controls focusing on the effectiveness of
operations and the safeguarding of assets within their respective areas of
responsibility. All levels of management and supervision are responsible for
strengthening internal controls when weaknesses are detected. Department
managers should periodically review departmental procedures to ensure that the
general principles of internal control are being followed.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office has the primary responsibility for
internal control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws,
rules and regulations. The Clerk-Treasurer is the town’s chief source for
information and assistance to staff and department heads on this topic and will
make resources available to assist in administering this policy.
      (4)   The Town Council is responsible for internal controls over employee
recruitment, hiring, separation, promotion, job classification, employee rights
and salary administration. The Clerk-Treasurer is the town source for
information and assistance on this topic and will make resources available to
assist in administering this policy.
      (5)   All levels of internal control are subject to examination by
external auditors who are required to report on the adequacy of internal
controls over finance and compliance.
      (6)   (a)   Department heads are responsible for prompt corrective action
on all internal control findings and recommendations made by internal and
external auditors. The audit process is completed only after department heads
receive the audit results and take action to correct internal control
weaknesses, improve systems or demonstrate that management action is not
warranted.
         (b)   Department heads have the responsibility to ensure that those
who report to them have adequate knowledge, skills and abilities to function
within, and contribute to, an effective internal control environment. This
includes providing access to appropriate training on topics relevant to their
job responsibilities.
   (D)   Management demonstrates a commitment to recruit, develop and retain
competent individuals.
      (1)   The town’s employee handbook provides a roadmap for recruiting and
maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment, individuals may be subject
to pre-employment background screening and/or a credit history check. The town
will continue to assess the best recruitment pools and tools for the different
skill sets of skills necessary to adequately implement and maintain quality
internal controls.
      (2)   Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect
internal control responsibilities and duties. Employees will be regularly
trained in internal control methods and all training will be documented in
employees’ personnel files. Employees will be regularly evaluated by their
supervisors on internal control duties and receive feedback on possible
improvements.
   (E)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals accountable for
their internal control responsibilities. Individuals are held accountable for
their internal control responsibilities through a recognized structure which
includes relevant job descriptions, operating procedures, periodic reviews,
regular feedback and a progressive disciplinary policy. Additionally, town
administration seeks to address issues in specific departments and positions
through regular one-on-ones with department heads.
(Ord. 5, 2016, passed 6-30-2016)
§ 36.04 RISK ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the identification of
risks and risk tolerances.
      (1)   Through the creation of standard operating procedures and accurate
organizational reporting charts management conveys and identifies objectives,
missions, policies and risk tolerances to employees. The Clerk-Treasurer and
Town Council will lead a risk analysis of three major areas:
         (a)   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
         (b)   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use; and
         (c)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (2)   For each category, the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council will define
objectives in specific, measurable terms in order to enable the design of
internal control for related risk, increase understanding at all levels, assess
performance, identify what is to be achieved, who is to achieve it, how it will
be achieved, when it will be achieved and incorporate external requirements.
   (B)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council will identify, analyze and
respond to the risks identified in division (A) above by determining:
         (a)   How likely is the risk to occur?
         (b)   How will it impact the objective?
         (c)   Is the risk based on complex or unusual transactions?
         (d)   Is the risk based on fraud?
      (2)   Once each risk has been identified and analyzed, the Clerk-
Treasurer and Town Council will work with department heads to determine how to
respond to each risk with a specific solution and action.
   (C)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks. Management is committed to fraud prevention
by utilizing a “trust but verify” approach. The potential for fraud,
misappropriation and outright theft are contemplated as controls are designed
for various town divisions. Fraud responses will include statutorily required
responses to fraud, including, but not limited to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l) relating to
the report of misappropriation of funds to state’s Board of Accounts and
prosecuting attorney and I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) relating to the report of material
variances, losses, shortages or thefts to the state’s Board of Accounts. The
town shall utilize a materiality threshold of $500.
   (D)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant changes
that could impact the internal control system. The Clerk-Treasurer and Town
Council, in coordination with department heads, will regularly evaluate and
adjust internal control policies in order to accommodate for the impact of
future changes, including but not limited to, personnel changes, newly elected
officials, new programs, new technology, new laws and regulations and financial
fluctuations.
(Ord. 5, 2016, passed 6-30-2016)
§ 36.05 CONTROL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council will establish and maintain a
system of internal controls that satisfies the town’s objectives in the
following categories:
         (a)   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
         (b)   Safeguarding of town assets;
         (c)   Reliability and integrity of financial information;
         (d)   Compliance with town policy, plans, procedures, laws and
regulations;
         (e)   Economical and efficient use of town resources; and
         (d)   Meeting established objectives and goals for town operations and
programs.
      (2)   General internal control principles for departments are:
         (a)   Separation of duties.
            1.   Duties are separated so that one person’s work routinely
serves as a check on another’s work.
            2.   No one person has complete control over more than one key
function or activity (e.g., authorizing, approving, certifying, disbursing,
receiving or reconciling).
         (b)   Authorization and approval.
            1.   Proposed transactions are authorized when proper and
consistent with town policy and the department’s plans.
            2.   Transactions are approved by the person who has delegated
approval authority, which is usually delegated on the basis of special
competency or knowledge.
         (c)   Custodial and security arrangements.
            1.   Responsibility for physical security/custody of town assets is
separated from record keeping/accounting for those assets.
            2.   Unauthorized access to town assets and institutional data is
prevented.
         (d)   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation.
            1.   Departmental accounting records and documents are examined by
employees who have sufficient understanding of the town accounting and
financial systems to verify that recorded transactions actually took place and
were made in accordance and with town policies and procedures.
            2.   Departmental accounting records and documentation are compared
with town accounting system reports and financial statements to verify their
reasonableness, accuracy and completeness.
      (3)   The general internal control principles should be applied to all
departmental operations, especially accounting records and reports, payroll,
purchasing/receiving/disbursement approval, equipment and supply inventories,
cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing and accounts receivable.
      (4)   All town systems, processes, operations, functions and activities
are subject to evaluations of internal control systems. The results of these
evaluations provide information regarding the town’s overall system of control.
      (5)   Information must be timely and communicated in a manner that
enables people to carry out their responsibilities.
         (a)   All covered employees must be trained on internal controls
according to I.C. 5-11-1-27(g).
         (b)   All personnel must receive a clear message from the town’s
administration that control responsibilities are to be taken seriously. Failure
to comply with established practices will subject individuals to the terms of
disciplinary action or dismissal.
         (c)   Employees must understand their own roles in the internal
control system, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of
others. To this end, whenever a new budgetary unit, financial activity or the
like is set up, the Clerk-Treasurer will provide notification to the
appropriate parties of the responsibilities incumbent on them for good business
practices and sound financial management, including reference to the principles
within this policy.
         (d)   Employees must have a means of communicating significant
information to the town’s administration.
         (e)   The town must communicate effectively with external parties,
such as auditors, creditors, contractors, suppliers, regulators and other
stakeholders.
      (6)   Internal control is meant to keep the town focused on achieving its
mission while avoiding surprises. There is a balance between effective controls
and mission accomplishment. Costs associated with internal controls should not
exceed their benefit, nor should controls be allowed to stifle mission
effectiveness and timely action. All levels of management must assess the
costs, benefits and risks when designing controls to develop a positive control
environment and compensate for the risks of noncompliance, loss of assets or
unreliable reporting while accomplishing the town mission.
      (7)   The following specific internal control policies are adopted for
use by town departments.
         (a)   Payroll activities.
            1.   Salaries and wage rates are verified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
            2.   The responsibilities for hiring, terminating and approving
promotions are segregated from those preparing payroll transactions or
inputting data.
            3.   The responsibilities for approving time sheets are segregated
from those preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
            4.   Payroll adjustment reports are submitted by someone outside of
the payroll process.
            5.   Employee’s time and attendance records are approved by their
supervisors.
            6.   Corrections to recorded time and attendance records are
approved by the employee and employee’s supervisor.
            7.   Procedures are in place to ensure that changes in employment
status are promptly reported to the payroll processing unit.
            8.   Payroll disbursements are reviewed and approved by an
authorized individual prior to payment.
            9.   Access to payroll applications is appropriately controlled by
user logins and passwords.
            10.   Changes to a payroll disbursement are approved by an
individual other than the ones authorized to process these changes.
            11.   Payroll checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the payroll check register.
            12.   Access to the signature stamp used to sign payroll checks is
adequately controlled.
            13.   Payroll checks are mailed or distributed by someone outside
the normal payroll distribution function.
            14.   Unclaimed payroll checks are returned to Clerk-Treasurer via
the department head.
            15.   Employees are cross-trained on the payroll process; those
assigned to payroll take regular vacations.
         (b)   Disbursement activities.
            1.   The responsibility for approving claims is segregated from
those preparing the claims.
            2.   Checks are written by an individual other than the one
approving the claim.
            3.   Checks are signed by an individual other than the one
preparing them.
            4.   Claims for payment are reviewed and approved by the governing
body prior to payment.
            5.   A reconcilement is completed between the claims for payment
approved by the Council and the actual disbursements posted to the ledger.
            6.   The responsibility for acknowledging the receipt of goods or
services is segregated from those preparing claims and writing checks.
            7.   Vendor checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the disbursement ledger.
            8.   Invoices or other receipts are attached to each claim to
support the disbursement.
            9.   A review is completed by an individual outside the
disbursement process in which the claim amount is compared to the supporting
documentation attached to the claim and the amount of the check.
            10.   Access to disbursement applications is appropriately
controlled by user logins and passwords.
         (c)   Receipting activities.
            1.   The responsibility for collecting money and issuing receipts
is segregated from those preparing the bank deposit.
            2.   The responsibility for making bank deposits is segregated from
those preparing the monthly bank reconcilement.
            3.   Pre-numbered receipts are issued for all money collected and
the receipt is retained with supporting documentation.
            4.   Receipts are reconciled to the cash receipts ledger by an
individual other than the one collecting money and issuing receipts.
            5.   Posting of receipts to the ledger is completed by an
individual other than the one who collects money and makes the deposit.
            6.   Receipts indicate the type of payment received (cash, check
and the like) and this is reconciled to the make-up of the bank deposit.
            7.   Accounts receivable records are maintained by an individual
other than the one(s) involved in the billing process.
            8.   The billing process is completed by an individual other than
the one who collects cash payments from customers.
            9.   Adjustments to customer accounts above our managerial
threshold are approved by the governing body only after review.
         (d)   Cash activities.
            1.   A reconcilement between the recorded cash balance and the bank
balance is completed monthly by an individual separate from the receipting and
disbursing processes.
            2.   A reconcilement between the receipts ledger and the credits to
the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the
receipting process.
            3.   A reconcilement between the disbursement ledger and the debits
to the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the
disbursement process.
            4.   The monthly reconcilement between the cash balance and the
bank balance is thoroughly reviewed and approved by the governing body.
            5.   Disbursements from and reimbursements to petty cash funds are
periodically reviewed by an individual other than the one responsible for
maintaining the Petty Cash Fund.
         (e)   Credit cards transactions.
            1.   A designated official or employee oversees the issuance and
use of the credit cards.
            2.   An ordinance or resolution specifically states the purposes
for which the credit card may be used.
            3.   A designated person separate from disbursement process reviews
transactions listed on the credit card statements for sufficient documentation
and inclusion in claim to the Council.
   (B)   Management designs the political subdivision’s information system and
related control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks. The
Clerk-Treasurer, Town Council and department heads will work with the
Information Technology Department to ensure that information technology is used
as an integral part of the internal control system. This may include, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform certain
tasks;
      (2)   Using technology to accomplish segregation of duties by forcing
duties to be completed by different users;
      (3)   Automating certain processes and calculations;
      (4)   Limiting the authority to access different components of various
software to employees with duties specifically related to that component;
      (5)   Prohibiting user ID and password sharing among employees;
      (6)   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to records
to key employees; and
      (7)   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of
alternative forms.
   (C)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (1)   The town has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to
communicate policies to employees. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer regularly
works with departments and employees who handle financial transactions to
recommend and ensure best practices.
      (2)   All procedures are in writing and communicated frequently to all
relevant employees. Policies are available both electronically and in hard copy
form.
(Ord. 5, 2016, passed 6-30-2016)
§ 36.06 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   Management uses quality information to achieve the political
subdivision’s objectives. The town strives to lead in the areas of financial
transparency and accountability. By adopting standards and investing in systems
that exceed state mandated minimums, town management provides employees and
stakeholders with high quality information and informatics systems. The Clerk-
Treasurer’s office attends training and industry seminars to stay abreast of
changes and developments in requirements and communicate that information
effectively to impacted employees.
   (B)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality information
to achieve the political subdivision’s objectives. Internal communications on
internal controls are communicated through adoption of formal policies by
relevant boards and commissions and/or the legislative body or documented
through memos from the Clerk-Treasurer or relevant department head. Internal
memos and reports are maintained to document communication.
   (C)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality information
to achieve the entity’s objectives. Communications with the state’s Board of
Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies and regulatory agencies are
documented by email, memos, letters and other forms of written correspondence.
Logs are kept for information provided verbally. All documents are maintained
in accordance with the town and state’s record retention policies. Reports and
policies are cross checked for accuracy, relevancy and timeliness of
information.
(Ord. 5, 2016, passed 6-30-2016)
§ 36.07 MONITORING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to monitor
the internal control system and evaluate the results.
      (1)   Town administration monitors and evaluates compliance with internal
control policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, redundancy
policies, layered approval systems, monthly reports and physical controls such
as video monitoring allow management to both review and evaluate control
systems.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council shall implement a system of
monitoring that includes:
         (a)   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and
working effectively;
         (b)   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual
activities are in compliance with established procedures; and
         (c)   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly.
      (3)   Monitoring activities will be documented by signatures, initials or
other appropriate methods.
   (B)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on a
timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to significant levels
of internal scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of internal controls,
the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council actively investigate and address said
breach and adjust policies and procedures to prevent such breaches in the
future. Once breaches are identified and investigated, a formal or informal
corrective action plan will be developed.
(Ord. 5, 2016, passed 6-30-2016)
IDENTITY THEFT
§ 36.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the identity theft prevention program.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to comply with 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in order
to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting
identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that
will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT. An account that a financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes that
involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a
credit card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, covered account, checking account or savings account; or any other
account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for
which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft,
including financial, operational, compliance reputation or litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment thereto.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew or continue credit. The term includes covered
companies and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and driver’s
license information, and for a natural person includes his or her Social
Security number, mother’s birth name and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern/practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Mooresville, Indiana.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.23 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The town is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of town
services include wastewater treatment utility.
   (C)   The town has not had any type of previous experience with identity
theft related to covered accounts.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account and making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   The town limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the town’s computer system and is
not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The town determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account or another person’s credit card, bank account or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.24 ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   As a precaution to opening a covered account in the town, each
applicant shall provide the town with personal identifying information of the
customer after appropriately identifying the customer by picture identification
or other sufficient identification to the satisfaction of the town with the
only recorded information by the town to be the name, address and phone number
and making a notation as to whether or not they are buying or renting.
   (B)   Each account shall be assigned an account number and personal
identification number (PIN) which shall be unique to that account. The town may
utilize computer software to randomly generate assigned PINs and to encrypt
account numbers and PINs.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.25 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and limited to
authorized town personnel.
   (B)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and any password would
immediately be changed.
   (C)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and shall not be released. Any demand for such
information shall be immediately forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.26 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the internet
are processed through a third-party service provider, such third-party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the town’s website
shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in the
computer database.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.27 RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and
such red flags may include:
   (A)   Fraud or active duty alerts included with consumer reports;
   (B)   Notice of credit freeze provided by consumer reporting agency;
   (C)   Notice of address discrepancy provided by consumer reporting agency;
   (D)   Inconsistent activity patterns indicated by consumer report such as:
      (1)   Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
      (2)   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
      (3)   A material change in use of credit; or
      (4)   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
   (E)   Identification documents appear to be altered;
   (F)   Photo and physical description do not match appearance of applicant;
   (G)   Other information is inconsistent with information provided by
applicant;
   (H)   Other information provided by applicant is inconsistent with
information on file;
   (I)   Application appears altered or destroyed and reassembled;
   (J)   Personal information provided by applicant does not match other
sources of information (e.g., credit reports, social security number not issued
or listed as deceased);
   (K)   Lack of correlation between the social security number range and date
of birth;
   (L)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity
(e.g., address or phone number provided is same as that of a fraudulent
application);
   (M)   Information commonly associated with fraudulent activity is provided
by applicant (e.g., an address that is a mail drop or prison, non-working phone
number or associated with answering service/pager);
   (N)   Social security number, address or telephone number is the same as
that of other customer at utility;
   (O)   Customer fails to provide all information requested;
   (P)   Personal information provided is inconsistent with information on file
for a customer;
   (Q)   Applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what could
commonly be found in a purse or wallet; and/or
   (R)   Identity theft is reported or discovered.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.28 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION.
   (A)   All detections or suspicious red flags shall be reported to the Clerk-
Treasurer. Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag will
implement the following response, as applicable:
      (1)   Ask applicant for additional documentation;
      (2)   Any utility employee who becomes aware of a suspected or actual
fraudulent use of a customer or potential customers identity must notify the
Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement: The utility will notify the Police
Department at 317-831-3434 of any attempted or actual identity theft;
      (4)   Do not open the account;
      (5)   Close the account; and/or
      (6)   Do not attempt to collect against the account, but notify
authorities.
   (B)   The town adopts the following security procedures.
      (1)   Paper documents, files and electronic media containing secure
information will be stored in locked file cabinets.
      (2)   Employees will not leave sensitive papers out on their desks when
they are away from their workstations.
      (3)   Employees will store files when leaving their work areas.
      (4)   Employees will log off their computers when leaving their work
areas.
      (5)   Visitors who must enter areas where sensitive files are kept must
be escorted by an employee of the town.
      (6)   No visitor will be given any entry codes or allowed unescorted
access to the office.
       (7)   Access to sensitive information will be controlled using
passwords. Employees will choose passwords with a mix of letters, numbers and
characters. User names and passwords will be different. Passwords will be
changed at least monthly.
      (8)   Passwords will not be shared or posted near workstations.
      (9)   Anti-virus and anti-spyware programs will be run on individual
computers and on servers regularly.
      (10)   When installing new software, vendor supplied default passwords
will be changed.
      (11)   The computer network will have a firewall where the network
connects to the internet.
      (12)   References will be checked and background checks will be done
before hiring employees who will have access to sensitive data.
      (13)   Access to a customer’s personal identity information will be
limited to employees with a “need to know.”
      (14)   Procedures will be developed to ensure that workers who leave the
employ of the town or transfer to another department no longer have access to
sensitive information.
      (15)   Employees will be trained on a regular basis (twice per year).
      (16)   Employees will be alert to attempts at phone phishing.
      (17)   Paper records will be shredded before being placed into the trash.
      (18)   Any data storage media will be disposed of by shredding, punching
holes in or incineration.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.29 UPDATES TO PROGRAM.
   The town will monitor identity theft schemes reported on the internet, and
in the mainstream media such as radio and television, in order to continually
re-evaluate the appropriateness and adequacy of its theft prevention program.
In addition, at least annually, it shall implement changes to the program
necessitated by evolving patterns in identity theft.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
§ 36.30 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for oversight of this program and its
implementation.
(Ord. 16, 2010, passed - -)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 36.45 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The town adopts the national incident management system (hereinafter “NIMS”)
to provide a consistent approach to the effective management of situations
involving natural disaster, human-made disasters or terrorism as the NIMS
contains a practice model for the accomplishment of the significant
responsibilities associated with prevention, preparedness, response, recovery
and mitigation of all major and national hazard situations.
(Ord. 11, 2006, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 36.46 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The town adopts the county’s multi-hazard mitigation plan as an official
plan, and the county’s Emergency Management Agency will submit on behalf of the
participating municipalities the adopted multi-hazard mitigation plan to the
state’s Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for final review and approval.
(Res. 2-2009, passed 6-16-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS AND WASTEWATER GENERALLY
      
53.   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
      
54.   NON-DELEGATED PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
      
55.   DEVELOPER AND NEW USER CONTRIBUTIONS
      
56.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Recycling
   
50.01   Recycling depositories
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Violations
 
   
50.99   Penalty
RECYCLING
§ 50.01 RECYCLING DEPOSITORIES.
   The Town Council shall establish an area for the location of recycling
depositories, one depository for each of the recycling products to be
deposited. Each of said depositories shall be labeled with the type of product
to be recycled in that respective depository.
(Ord. 17-1991, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALUMINUM. Any empty disposable can or container whose construction is of the
metallic element aluminum or an aluminum alloy.
   GARBAGE. Any waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce;
including all waste, all accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter,
meat, fish or fowl or any other by-products of these.
   GLASS. A hard, amorphous, brittle substance made by fusing one or more of
the oxides of silicon, boron or phosphorus with certain basic oxides.
   PERSON. Any person, business entity, corporation, partnership or any other
type of legal business entity or association.
   PLASTIC. A container made out of an organic compound synthesized from
hydrocarbons, proteins, cellulose or resins.
   REFUSE. Trash of any kind, including paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood,
excelsior, furniture, bedding, dirt, metals, tin cans, small quantities of rock
and pieces of concrete, crockery and other mineral waste including tree
trimmings and plants.
(Ord. 17-1991, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 50.03 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any type of refuse, garbage,
object or material other than the designated recyclable product in the town
recycling bins. In particular, the recycling bin marked for aluminum shall be
for aluminum recyclable products only, for glass-only glass recyclable products
and for plastics-only plastic recyclable products.
(Ord. 17-1991, passed 10-15-1991) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §§
50.01 through
50.03 of this code shall be cited into the Town Court by the Town Marshal or
Deputy Town Marshals.
      (2)   Any person who violates §§
50.01 through
50.03 of this code will be subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than
$200 for each violation of §§
50.01 through
50.03 of this code. Each act of dumping of any material other than the
designated recycling material into one of the town’s receptacles so designated
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 17-1991, passed 10-15-1991)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Town to own, acquire and operate water facilities
§ 51.01 TOWN TO OWN, ACQUIRE AND OPERATE WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-2 and other applicable statutes, the town may
own, acquire and thereafter operate existing utilities. The Council deems it
desirable and in the best interest of the town to exercise its legal authority
to acquire and thereafter own and operate existing water facilities for the
purpose of providing water service within the town’s municipal limits and its
extraterritorial authority.
   (B)   The Council hereby declares that public convenience and necessity
require, and the public interest will be served by, the expansion of its
municipal utility to include the establishment of a municipal water utility and
the acquisition of water utility assets and facilities in and around the town.
   (C)   The town establishes a municipally-owned water utility with all the
rights and authorities attendant thereto.
   (D)   The town further exercises its power to acquire and thereafter own,
operate and control existing water assets and facilities for the purpose of
providing water service both inside and outside the town’s municipal limits. By
this section, the town is exercising its power to provide water service in and
around the town.
(Ord. 12-2012, passed 8-10-2012)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS AND WASTEWATER GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Abbreviations
   
52.003   Damage to sewer works prohibited
   
52.004   General sewer use requirements
   
52.005   Records retention
Public Sewer System
   
52.020   Deposit of waste on public or private property prohibited
   
52.021   Discharge into natural outlet prohibited
   
52.022   Private disposal system unlawful; exception
   
52.023   Connection required
Building Sewers; Connections
   
52.035   Sewer connections; permit required
   
52.036   Owner to bear costs
   
52.037   Separate sewer required for each building
   
52.038   Use of old building sewers
   
52.039   Sewer construction standards
   
52.040   Entrance into building; grade and depth
   
52.041   Lifts required where gravity flow not possible
   
52.042   Excavations
   
52.043   Pipe joints and connections
   
52.044   Connecting building sewer into public sewer
   
52.045   Notification
   
52.046   Safety requirements; restoration of pavement
   
52.047   Connections may be removed
   
52.048   Permit may be refused
Discharge and Pretreatment
   
52.060   Discharge of stormwater and unpolluted drainage
   
52.061   Prohibited discharge into public sewers
   
52.062   Administration
   
52.063   Inspection
   
52.064   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.065   Monitoring wastes; control manholes
   
52.066   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
52.067   Measurements, tests and analyses
Private Sewage Disposal
   
52.080   Private disposal system
   
52.081   Installation of private systems
   
52.082   Installation of privies
   
52.083   Correction of defects
   
52.084   Direct connection to public sewer required when available
   
52.085   Orders to comply with provisions of chapter
   
52.086   Permit for construction of private system or privy
   
52.087   Inspection of installation
   
52.088   Deposit of waste from private into public system
Administration
   
52.100   Wastewater dischargers
   
52.101   Wastewater discharge data disclosure
   
52.102   Reporting requirements for discharger
Enforcement
   
52.115   Emergency suspension of service
   
52.116   Revocation of treatment services
   
52.117   Notification of violation
   
52.118   Show cause hearing
   
52.119   Judicial proceedings
   
52.120   Enforcement actions; annual publication
   
52.121   Right of appeal
   
52.122   Operating upsets
Rates and Charges
   
52.135   Fees program
   
52.136   Definitions
   
52.137   Charges by user class
   
52.138   Determination of rates
   
52.139   Adjustments to charges based on water use
   
52.140   Adjustments to charges based on strength and character of wastes
   
52.141   Connection fee
   
52.142   Billing
   
52.143   Studies to be conducted by town
   
52.144   Administration of sewer system
   
52.145   Appeals
   
52.146   Special rate contracts
   
52.147   Billing corrections
   
52.148   Waiver of sewer service rates
   
52.149   Summer sprinkler credit
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus pollutants identified in the NDPES permit if the
treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not
subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order
of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may be
considered compatible include: Chemical oxygen demand; total organic carbon;
phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and fats,
oils and grease of animal or vegetable origin (except as prohibited where these
materials would interfere with the operation of the treatment works).
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A wastewater sample that consists of equal portions by
volume of grab samples taken at hourly intervals over a period of 24 hours or
the daily hours of operation of a specific waste source.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for the purposes
of sampling.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer receptacle or outlet.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and without consideration of
time.
   HYDROGEN ION CONCENTRATION. See definition of pH.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which passes through or interferes
with the treatment processes or which may contaminate sewage sludge or the
receiving stream.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource carried on by any person as defined herein, exclusive
of SANITARY SEWAGE.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW (publicly-owned treatment works).
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from INFLOW.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: Roof leaders; cellar,
yard and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling water discharges;
drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross connections from
storm sewers; and combined sewers; catch basins; stormwaters; surface runoff;
and street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is
distinguished from, INFILTRATION.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through the
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations which contribute to the violation of any requirement of the
town’s NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or
more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that meets anyone of the following:
Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day; has a flow greater
than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; has in
its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued
under 33 U.S.C. § 1317; or is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment
works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon
the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
   MAY. Indicates a discretionary condition.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act which applies to a specific
category of industrial users.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings, apartment houses, hotels and motels.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollution discharge elimination system permit, which
sets the conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Pub. Law
No. 95-217 and all amendments thereto.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   PASS THROUGH. The discharge of pollutants through the wastewater treatment
plant into the receiving stream in quantities or concentrations which are a
cause of or significantly contribute to a violation of any requirement of the
town’s NPDES permit including violation of the receiving stream’s water quality
standards.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, including any individual, firm, company,
municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-partnership, joint stock
company, trust, estate, association, society, institution, enterprise,
governmental agency, the state, the United States of America or other legal
representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender includes the feminine,
the singular includes the plural where indicated by context.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed in gram-atoms per liter of solution.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serves such beneficial uses. The human-made or human-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRIMARY SEWER MAIN. The public sewer main which is required to transport
sewage from the property line of the nearest prospective customer to the
proposed point of connection at the sewage works’s existing sewer main.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the sewage treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses, hotels and motels), office buildings,
factories or institutions and free from stormwater, surface water and
industrial wastes.
   SECONDARY SEWER MAIN. The public sewer main which is required to provide
service from a prospective customer to the primary sewer main.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic charge levied on all users of the public sewerage
system for wastes which do not exceed in strength the concentration values
above which a surcharge will be made.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. The arrangement of devices, structures and equipment
used for treating and disposal of sewage and sludge.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The organization and all facilities for collecting,
transporting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the
sewerage system and the sewage treatment plant.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
      (1)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A primary sewer or secondary sewer in which all
owners of abutting property have equal rights and which is controlled by the
sewage works.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface and groundwaters and unpolluted industrial wastewaters are not
intentionally admitted.
      (4)   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface water drainage
but excludes sewage.
   SEWER INSPECTOR. The person employed by the town to inspect and approve all
sewer line construction, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM or SEWAGE SYSTEM. The network of sewers and appurtenances
used for collecting, transporting and pumping sewage to the sewage treatment
plant.
   SHALL. An act which is mandatory.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act or Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342 and 33 U.S.C.
§ 1345, and in the applicable requirements under §§ 3001, 3004 and 4004 of the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. Law No. 94-580.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation and Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants, 40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on October
16, 1973.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the town’s Sewage Department, or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. The extra charges for sewerage service assessed customers whose
sewage is of such a nature that it imposes upon the sewage works a burden
greater than that covered by the basic service charge.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   TOTAL REVENUE. The revenue obtained from monthly minimum billing for the use
of and service rendered by the sewage works and does not include front foot
assessments, permit or inspection fees or other charges.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN. The Town of Mooresville, Indiana, or any duly authorized officials
acting on its behalf.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentration of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 95-217.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The substances referred to in the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act or Clean Water Act under 33 U.S.C. § 1342 and 33 U.S.C. § 1345, as
well as any other known potential substances capable of producing toxic
effects.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the applicable standard due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance or careless or improper
operation of the facilities.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC AND NON-ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids
transformed to gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume flow
rate, and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality and strength of wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.002 ABBREVIATIONS.
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
IU     Industrial user
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollution discharge elimination system
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly-owned treatment works
SIC    Standard industrial classification
TSS    Total suspended solids
WWTP   Wastewater treatment plant
 
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.003 DAMAGE TO SEWER WORKS PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   National categorical pretreatment standards as promulgated by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) must be met by all dischargers of
the regulated industrial categories if they are more stringent than state or
local standards. It is important to understand that federal standards are
required to be met at the point of discharge from the industrial pretreatment
system prior to mixing with any other waste stream.
      (2)   An application submitted by the POTW for modification of
categorical standards may be considered by the regional administrator if the
Authority’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of
regulated pollutants as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
to the POTW shall be met by all dischargers which are subject to such standards
in any instance in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and
limitations or those in this or any other applicable ordinance.
   (C)   Right of revision. The Authority reserves the right to amend this
chapter to provide for more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges
to the POTW where deemed necessary to comply with objectives set forth in this
chapter.
   (D)   Dilution. No discharger shall increase the use of potable or process
water in any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Compliance with other provisions. All provisions of this chapter and
limits set herein shall comply with any applicable state or federal
requirements now, or projected to be in effect.
   (F)   Records. Records of all monitoring data, dates of samples, results,
who performed test, who took samples and other pertinent data must be retained
at the POTW for a period of three years.
   (G)   Removal credits. Where applicable, the Authority may elect to initiate
a program of removal credits as part of this chapter to reflect the POTW’s
ability to remove pollutants in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
   (H)   Net/gross calculations. The Authority may elect to adjust categorical
pretreatment standards to reflect the presence of pollutants in the
discharger’s intake water, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 RECORDS RETENTION.
   (A)   All dischargers subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve for
no less than three years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence, and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling and chemical analysis made by or on behalf of a discharger in
connection with its discharge.
   (B)   All records which pertain to matters which are the subject of
administrative adjustment, or any other enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the Authority pursuant hereto, shall be retained and preserved by
the discharger until all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods
of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM
§ 52.020 DEPOSIT OF WASTE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 DISCHARGE INTO NATURAL OUTLET PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.022 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided in §§
52.080 through
52.082 of this code, inclusive, no person shall construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.023 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter; provided, that said public
sewer is within 300 feet of the property line. Said connection shall be made
within 30 days from the date the public sewer is made available.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
BUILDING SEWERS; CONNECTIONS
§ 52.035 SEWER CONNECTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection with the public sewers or drains,
or with any extension or connection previously made, without first obtaining a
written permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The application for such permit
must be made in writing not later than the day previous to the opening of the
street by the owner or authorized agent of the property to be connected and
must be accompanied by a clear description of the premises, the name of the
owner, the number of fixtures to be connected therewith and the name of the
person employed to do the work.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.036 OWNER TO BEAR COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner of the property shall be
responsible for the cost of the hook-on from the building to the sewer line
along with the cost of connection. The owner or the person installing the
building sewer for said owner shall indemnify said town from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by said installation. Maintenance
of the building sewer on private property shall be the responsibility of the
property owner and not the town.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.037 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where two buildings are in close proximity and no private
sewer is available or can be constructed to the second building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the second building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.038 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and test by the Sewer Inspector to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.039 SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Building sewers shall be constructed using extra strength vitrified
clay pipe, ASTM designation C-700; polyvinyl chloride pipe, ASTM designation D-
3034 SDR 35, type PSM; acrylonitrile- butadiene-styrene (ABS) pipe, ASTM
designation D-2661; ductile iron pipe, AWWA designation C-151; or cast iron
pipe, AWWA designation C-111. All joints in the pipe and fittings shall be gas-
tight and water-tight. The Sewer Inspector may require cast iron or ductile
iron pipe be used where the building sewer is in the close vicinity to tree
roots or where the building sewer is to be placed in filled or unstable soil.
Cast iron or ductile iron pipe shall be used for the building sewer where it is
impossible to maintain a ten-foot horizontal and a one and one-half-foot
vertical separation from water mains and water service lines.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Sewer Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less
than six inches for single-family or duplex residential units and not less than
six inches for all other uses. The slope of such six-inch pipe shall be not
less than one-fourth inch per foot or sufficient slope to maintain a two feet
per second velocity in the sewer.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.040 ENTRANCE INTO BUILDING; GRADE AND DEPTH.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipes and
fittings.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.041 LIFTS REQUIRED WHERE GRAVITY FLOW NOT POSSIBLE.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall be
lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer at the
owner’s expense.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.042 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Sewer Inspector. Pipe laying
and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications
applicable to the type of pipe being used, except that no backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected by the Sewer Inspector or his or her
representative.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.043 PIPE JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight, and as
governed by the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code in effect as of the date of
adoption of this chapter, and any provisions thereof which may be amendatory
thereof or supplemental thereto from time to time hereafter.
   (A)   Joints in vitrified clay pipe and fittings shall be O-ring type
compression joint. Joints shall meet or exceed all requirements of ASTM
designation C-425, latest revision.
   (B)   Joints on PVC pipe and fittings shall be the integral bell gasketed
joint type and shall comply with all physical requirements of ASTM designation
D-3212, latest revision.
   (C)   Joints on ABS pipe and fittings shall be the solvent weld type
conforming to all requirements of ASTM designation D-2564, latest revision.
   (D)   Joints on ductile iron and cast iron pipe shall be the push-on type
conforming to AWWA designation C-151, latest revision. Pittings shall be cast
iron and shall comply with ANSI specification A21.10, latest revision, with
push-on or mechanical joints.
   (E)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only upon the
approval of the Sewer Inspector.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.044 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER INTO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the “Y” branch or “T” connection, if such branch is available at a suitable
location. If the public sewer does not have a properly located “Y” branch or
“T” connection, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install an approved
tapping saddle in the public sewer at the location specified by the Sewer
Inspector. The tapping saddle shall be installed in a neatly tapped hole cut
into the public sewer; said connection between the tapping saddle and public
sewer shall be secured by the use of epoxy compound or other approved sealant.
The centerline of the building sewer at the tapping saddle shall be at or above
the centerline of the public sewer but not in the top. A smooth, neat joint
shall be made and the connection made secure and water-tight. Special fittings
may be used for the connection only when approved by the Sewer Inspector.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.045 NOTIFICATION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector 24
hours in advance of when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Inspector or his or her representative.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.046 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS; RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.047 CONNECTIONS MAY BE REMOVED.
   Any connection made contrary to the provisions of this subchapter shall be
removed when required by the Town Council.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.048 PERMIT MAY BE REFUSED.
   No proposed connection or inlet shall be permitted if, in the opinion of the
Town Council, such inlet and connection would overburden such sewer.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
DISCHARGE AND PRETREATMENT
§ 52.060 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Stormwater and any other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged upon approval of the Superintendent and the state into
a storm sewer or natural outlet. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff or
subsurface drainage into any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other inflammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas or noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or
solids, which either alone or by interaction are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
system; or
      (4)   Any substance which causes a pass through.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes, which shall include, but not
be limited to, the substances set out as follows:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 160°F or with
a temperature which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment plan resulting in interference; but in no case, wastewater with a
temperature which will cause the raw wastewater in the affluent to the
wastewater treatment plant to exceed 140°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 50 mg/l of which not more than 25 mg/l is
soluble oils, or containing substances which may solidify or become so highly
viscous as to retard flow in the sewer system at temperatures between 32° and
150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Installation and
operation of any garbage grinder (other than in a residence) may be subject to
the review and approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes exceeding the following maximum allowable
limits:
Non-Categorical Discharge Limits
                    (Composite Sample) Daily     (Average of Composite Samples)
 Grab Sample (mg/l) Maximum Concentration (mg/l) 30-Day Average Concentration
                                                 (mg/l)
Non-Categorical Discharge Limits
                                      (Composite Sample)   (Average of
                   Grab Sample (mg/l) Daily Maximum        Composite Samples)
                                      Concentration (mg/l) 30-Day Average
                                                           Concentration (mg/l)
Cadmium            2.0                1.0                  0.5
Chromium (VI)      0.50               0.25                 0.09
Chromium (Total)   8.4                4.2                  1.6
Copper             4.0                2.0                  1.0
Cyanide (Amenable) 0.40               0.20                 0.08
Cyanide (Total)    1.28               0.64                 0.24
Fluoride           60.0               30.0                 30.0
Lead               1.6                0.8                  0.4
Nickel             7.2                3.6                  1.8
Tin                4.0                2.0                  1.0
Zinc               6.8                3.4                  1.5
 
      (6)   Objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
Superintendent for such materials by state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances after treatment of the composite sewage, in such
concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the Superintendent
as necessary to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the respective waters;
      (8)   Any radioactive material in excess of limits established by state
and federal law;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes having a pH of less than 5.0 or in excess of
9.0;
      (10)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as but
not limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or dissolved
solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
plant; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (11)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (12)   Any substance which will cause the wastewater works to violate its
NPDES permit or the receiving stream’s water quality;
      (13)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity
either singularly or in interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving water of the wastewater
plant or to exceed applicable categorical pretreatment standards; and/or
      (14)   Any substance which will cause the wastewater treatment plant to
violate its NPEDS permit or the receiving stream’s water quality standards.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substance or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above, and which in the judgment
of the Town Council may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Require new industries, or industries with significant increase in
discharges, to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
      (2)   Require other methods of disposal;
      (3)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (4)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (5)   (a)   Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary, facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials as defined in divisions
(A) and (B) above shall be provided and maintained at the discharger’s cost and
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the Authority for review and shall be
approved by the Authority before construction of the facility. Each existing
discharger shall complete its plan and submit same to the Authority by 60 days
from the effective date of this chapter. No discharger who discharges to the
POTW after the aforesaid date shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into
the system until accidental discharge protection procedures have been approved
by the Authority. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures by
the Authority shall not relieve the discharger from the responsibility to
modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Dischargers shall notify the Authority immediately upon the
occurrence of a slugload, or accidental discharge of substances prohibited by
this chapter. The notification shall include location of discharge, date and
time thereof, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
         (c)   Any discharger who discharges a slugload of prohibited materials
shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to the POTW and for any loss
for fish kill or any other damage to person or property, in addition to the
amount of fines imposed on the Authority on account thereof under state or
federal law. An additional report with updated information as required above
shall be filed within five working days of the initial report. Signs shall be
permanently posted in conspicuous places on discharger’s premises, advising
employees of who to call in the event of a slug or accidental discharge.
Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause or discover such a
discharge with respect to emergency notification procedure. The telephone
number of the POTW shall be prominently posted at the industry and the
discharger shall notify the POTW of any slug discharge.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.062 ADMINISTRATION.
   If the Town Council permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Town Council and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.063 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any industrial waste discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to periodic inspection and determination of volume, character and
concentration. The examination shall be made as often as the Superintendent
deems it necessary and may include the use of suitable continuous monitoring
instruments in appropriate cases. Samples shall be collected either manually or
by approved mechanical devices.
   (B)   The installation, operation and maintenance of the flow measuring and
sampling facilities shall be the responsibility of the person discharging the
wastes and shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent.
   (C)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town, state water pollution control employees and EPA employees bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives, the state water pollution control
employees and EPA employees shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond the point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of such industrial user to provide all necessary
clearance before entry by the Superintendent and not to unreasonably delay or
hinder the Superintendent in his or her inspection and testing of any
industrial or commercial establishment that discharges industrial (process)
wastewater to the publicly-owned treatment works.
   (E)   The Superintendent, Sewer Inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurements, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.064 FATS, GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Sewer Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Sewer Inspector and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and
equipped with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-
tight and water-tight.
   (C)   Where installed, all fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.065 MONITORING WASTES; CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes:
Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 220 milligrams per
liter; containing more than 240 milligrams per liter of suspended solids;
containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in §
52.061(B) of this code; or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
average daily sewage flow of the town shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to: Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 220 milligrams per liter
and the suspended solids to 240 milligrams per liter; reduce objectionable
characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided in §
52.061(B) of this code; or control the quantities and rates of discharge of
such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the Superintendent and of the state’s Stream
Pollution Control Board, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approval is obtained in writing.
   (B)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (C)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (D)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §
52.061(B) of this code and division (A) above shall be determined in accordance
with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided for in division (C) above, or upon
suitable samples taken at such control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   (E)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided, however, that the payment shall not be less than
the pollutant surcharges provided for in this chapter and all ordinances
amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto. Said special agreement shall be
valid only when ratified by a majority of the Town Council; provided further,
said agreement must specify the following:
      (1)   Its duration, not to exceed three years;
      (2)   The permissible method or methods to be employed in accomplishing
the partial or complete termination or amendment of the agreement;
      (3)   Its purpose or purposes; and
      (4)   Any other necessary and proper matters.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.066 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes shall, in addition to the terms of
this chapter, be governed by all applicable state and federal law including,
but not limited to, 40 C.F.R. part 403 and, in addition, any other requirements
established by the town and any subsequent state and federal guidelines and
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
   (C)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants, and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with division (B)
above.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.067 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow
characteristics. Such measurements, test and analysis shall be made at the
user’s expense. If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town.
      (1)   Compliance determination. Compliance determinations with respect to
prohibitions and limitations of this chapter may be made on the basis of either
grab samples or composite samples of wastewater.
      (2)   Sample frequency. Sampling of the industrial wastewater for the
purpose of compliance determination with respect to this chapter and its
prohibitions and limitations shall be done at such intervals as the
Superintendent may determine.
   (B)   (1)   The strength of the wastewaters shall be determined, for
periodic establishment of charges, provided for in §§
52.135 through
52.149 of this code, from samples taken at the aforementioned structures at any
period of time and of such duration and in such manner as the Superintendent
may elect. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the
user if said sampling is necessitated by prior violations and are legitimately
required to ensure compliance.
      (2)   The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also
be used for determination of charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.080 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.023 of this code, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter, inclusive.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.081 INSTALLATION OF PRIVATE SYSTEMS.
   At any house, building or property used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the town, where there is
installed a water carriage sewage disposal system which is not connected to a
proper public sewer system, there shall be established, installed or
constructed and maintained at no expense to the town a private sewage disposal
system which shall comply with the recommendations of the state’s Board of
Health.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.082 INSTALLATION OF PRIVIES.
   (A)   At any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town, where there
is installed a privy, said privy shall be of the sanitary type and shall be
constructed and maintained at no expense to the town to comply with the
recommendations of the state’s Board of Health. Under no circumstance shall any
privy be maintained where said property is within 300 feet of public sewer.
   (B)   No new construction or installation of a combined sewer or privy shall
be permitted within the town.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.083 CORRECTION OF DEFECTS.
   (A)   Should any defect occur in any private water carriage sewage disposal
system or privy which would cause said sewage disposal system or privy to fail
to meet the requirements in §§
52.081 and
52.082(A) of this code, the defect shall be corrected immediately by the owner
or agent of the owner, occupant or agent of the occupant at no expense to the
town.
   (B)   Failure on the part of the owner or agent of the owner, occupant or
agent of the occupant to do so shall be a violation of this subchapter, and he
or she shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in §
52.999 of this code.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.084 DIRECT CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED WHEN AVAILABLE.
   Wherever a public sewer becomes available to a house, building or property
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, served by a
private sewage disposal system or privy as provided for in §
52.023 of this code, situated within the town, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer; and any septic tanks, seepage pits, privy pits and
similar sewage disposal and treatment facilities shall be abandoned and filled
in a safe and sanitary manner.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.085 ORDERS TO COMPLY WITH PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   Within 30 days after receiving an official order in writing from the Sewer
Inspector, the owner, agent of the owner, the occupant or agent of the occupant
of the property shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter set forth
in the official order of the Sewer Inspector, except as provided for in §
52.023 of this code. Said official order shall be served on the owner and the
occupant, or on the agent of the owner, but may be served on any person who, by
contact with the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with the provisions
of an official order.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.086 PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE SYSTEM OR PRIVY.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain a written permit
from the Town Council. The application for such permit shall be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer on a form furnished by the town, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as is deemed
necessary by the Town Council.
   (B)   A permit and inspection fee in an amount determined by the Council
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.087 INSPECTION OF INSTALLATION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Sewer Inspector.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Sewer
Inspector when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Sewer Inspector.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.088 DEPOSIT OF WASTE FROM PRIVATE INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall deposit waste products of septic tanks, cesspools, dry
well, privies or other waste disposal system into the sewage disposal system of
the town, except at a point, or points, designated for such deposits by the
Superintendent or the Sewer Inspector.
   (B)   Any person depositing any waste products referred to in division (A)
above into the sewage disposal system shall pay a fee as established by the
Town Council to the town for every 100 gallons of waste products so deposited,
payable at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer at such times as designated by the
Town Council.
   (C)   Every person so depositing waste products referred to in division (A)
above into the sewage disposal system shall be subject to inspection by
officials designated to make such inspections by the Town Council, and said
persons making such inspection shall have the right to require any person
depositing said waste products in the sewage disposal system to meet proper
sanitation requirements in the delivery and depositing of said waste products.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.100 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage, industrial waste or other waste to
any sewer within the jurisdiction of the town’s municipal sanitation utility
and/or to the town’s wastewater treatment plant without having first complied
with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.101 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE DATA DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   General disclosure. All standard industrial classification dischargers
proposing to connect to or to discharge sewage, industrial wastes and other
wastes to the POTW shall comply with all terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Disclosure forms.
      (1)   Industrial dischargers shall complete and file with the Authority,
a disclosure declaration in the form prescribed by the Authority and
accompanied by the appropriate fee. Existing industrial dischargers shall file
disclosure forms within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, and
proposed new dischargers shall file their disclosure forms at least 90 days
prior to connecting to the POTW. The disclosure to be made by the discharger
shall be made on written forms provided by the Authority and shall cover:
         (a)   Disclosure of name, address and location of the discharger;
         (b)   Disclosure of standard industrial classification (SIC) number
according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Bureau of the
Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Disclosure of wastewater constituents and characteristics
including but not limited to those mentioned in this chapter as determined by
bona fide chemical and biological analyses. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the U.S. EPA and
contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
         (d)   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges;
         (e)   Disclosure of average daily and instantaneous peak wastewater
flow rates, in gallons per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal
variations, if any. All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable
techniques are approved by the Authority due to cost or nonfeasibility;
         (f)   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or maybe discharged to the sewers
or works of the Authority;
         (h)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, together with a
statement regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved with this
chapter on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance activities and/or additional pretreatment is required for the
discharger to comply with this chapter;
         (i)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter, the discharger shall
provide a declaration of the shortest schedule by which the discharger will
provide such additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional
operation and maintenance activities:
            1.   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with
the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to dates relating
to hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing
preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major
components, commencing construction, completing construction and all other acts
necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter;
            2.   Under no circumstances shall the Authority permit a time
increment for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine
months; and
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger shall submit a
progress report to the Authority, including no less than a statement as to
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that
milestone date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the
discharger to return the construction to the approved schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the
Authority.
         (j)   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount, process or
processes and rate of production;
         (k)   Disclosure of the type and amount of raw materials utilized
(average and maximum per day);
         (l)   All disclosure forms shall be signed by a principal executive
officer of the discharger; and
         (m)   All sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or
structure with an opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal
diameter of no less than 36 inches containing flow measuring, recording and
sampling equipment as required by the Authority to assure compliance with this
chapter.
      (2)   The Authority will evaluate the complete disclosure form and data
furnished by the discharger and may require additional information. Within 30
days after full evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the Authority
shall notify the discharger of the Authority’s acceptance thereof.
   (C)   Standards modification.
      (1)   The Authority reserves the right to amend this chapter and the
conditions hereof in order to assure compliance by the Authority with
applicable laws and regulations. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, this chapter shall be amended to
require compliance by dischargers with such standards within the time frame
prescribed by such standards. All national categorical pretreatment standards
adopted after the promulgation of this chapter shall be adopted by the
Authority as part of this chapter. Where a discharger, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted a disclosure
form as required by division (B) above, the discharger shall file a disclosure
form with the Authority within 180 days after the promulgation of the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard by the EPA.
      (2)   In addition, any discharger operating on the basis of a previous
filing of a disclosure statement, shall submit to the Authority within 180 days
after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard, the additional information required by divisions (B)(1)(h) and (B)(1)
(i) above. The discharger shall be informed of any proposed changes in this
chapter at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or
new conditions in this chapter shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.102 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR DISCHARGER.
   (A)   Compliance date report.
      (1)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance by the
discharger with applicable pretreatment standards set forth in this chapter, or
90 days following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW
by a new discharger, any discharger subject to this chapter shall submit to the
Authority a report indicating the nature and concentration of all prohibited or
regulated substances contained in its discharge and the average and maximum
daily flow in gallons.
      (2)   The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the discharger
into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. The
statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of the discharger and
certified to by a qualified engineer.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any discharger subject to a pretreatment standard set forth in this
chapter, after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the
case of a new discharger, after commencement of the discharge to the Authority,
shall submit to the Authority monthly reports, unless required more frequently
by the Authority, a report indicating the nature and concentration of
prohibited or regulated substances in the effluent which are limited by the
pretreatment standards hereof. In addition, this report shall include a record
of all measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows during the
reporting period reported in division (A) above.
      (2)   Flows shall be reported on the basis of actual measurement;
provided, however, where cost or feasibility considerations justify, the
Authority may accept reports of average and maximum flows estimated by
verifiable techniques. The Authority, for good cause shown considering such
factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles or other
extenuating factors, may authorize the submission of said reports on times
other than those specified above.
      (3)   Reports of dischargers shall contain all results of sampling and
analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration,
or production and mass where required by the Authority. The frequency of
monitoring by the discharger shall be as prescribed in the applicable
pretreatment standard of this chapter. All analysis shall be performed in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto.
   (C)   Compliance schedule reports for non-categorical dischargers. Any non-
categorical discharger which is not in compliance with this subchapter must
develop a compliance schedule to comply with said limits. The schedule should
follow the same format established in §
52.101(B)(1)(i) of this code.
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports for non-categorical dischargers. Any
discharger suspected of contributing wastes and/or waters that will exceed the
conditions set forth in this subchapter shall submit to the Authority reports
specified by the Authority to ensure compliance with this subchapter on a
frequency specified by the Authority.
   (E)   Baseline reporting. Within 180 days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final administrative
decision made on a category, whichever is later, existing industrial users
subject to such categorical pretreatment standards and currently discharging to
or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Authority a report
containing the information listed in paragraph(b)(l)-(7) of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
Upon promulgation of a categorical pretreatment standard, the Authority will
provide the appropriate 12(b) to the affected dischargers.
   (F)   Monitoring facilities.
      (1)   Each discharger shall provide and operate, at the discharger’s own
expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of each sewer discharge to the Authority.
      (2)   Each monitoring facility shall be situated on the discharger’s
premises, except where such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the discharger, the Authority may concur with the facility being
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area; provided, that the facility
is located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
There shall be ample room in or near the sampling facility to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the discharger.
      (3)   All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 120 days of receipt of permit by
discharger.
   (G)   Inspection and sampling. The Authority may inspect the monitoring
facilities of any discharger to determine compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. The discharger shall allow the Authority or its representatives,
upon presentation of credentials of identification, to enter upon the premises
of the discharger at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of inspection,
sampling or records examination. (The Authority shall have the right to set up
on the discharger’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.)
   (H)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data furnished to the Authority with respect to the
nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the public or other
governmental agency without restriction unless the discharger specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Authority that
the release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods
of production entitled to protection as trade secrets or propriety information
of the discharger.
      (2)   When requested by a discharger furnishing a report, the portions of
a report which may disclose trade secrets or secret process shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, state disposal
system permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such
portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the discharger
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information.
      (3)   Information accepted by the Authority as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the
Authority until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the discharger.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.115 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Authority may, for good cause shown, suspend the wastewater
treatment service to a discharger when it appears to the Authority that an
actual or threatened discharge presents or threatens an imminent or substantial
danger to the health or welfare of persons, substantial danger to the
environment, interfere with the operation of the POTW or violate any
pretreatment limits imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Any discharger notified of the suspension of the Authority’s
wastewater treatment service shall, within a reasonable period of time, as
determined by the Authority, cease all discharges. In the event of failure of
the discharger to comply voluntarily with the suspension order within the
specified time, the Authority shall commence judicial proceedings immediately
thereafter to compel the discharger’s compliance with such order.
   (C)   The Authority shall reinstate the wastewater treatment service and
terminate judicial proceedings pending proof by the discharger of the
elimination of the noncomplying discharge or conditions creating the threat of
imminent or substantial danger as set forth above, including interference with
the POTW.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.116 REVOCATION OF TREATMENT SERVICES.
   The Authority may seek to terminate the wastewater treatment services to any
discharger which:
   (A)   Fails to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   (B)   Fails to report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics;
   (C)   Refuses reasonable access to the discharger’s premises by
representatives of the Authority for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
or
   (D)   Violates the conditions of this chapter or any final judicial order
entered with respect thereto.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.117 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Authority finds that any discharger has engaged in
conduct which justifies termination of wastewater treatment services, pursuant
to §
52.116 of this code, the Authority shall serve, or cause to be served upon the
discharger, a written notice either personally or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested, stating the nature of the alleged violation.
   (B)   Within ten days of the date of receipt of the notice, the discharger
shall respond personally or in writing to the Authority, advising of its
position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter, the parties shall meet to
ascertain the veracity of the allegations and, where necessary, establish a
plan for the satisfactory correction thereof.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.118 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Where the violation of §
52.116 of this code is not corrected by timely compliance by means of
administrative adjustment, the Authority may order any discharger which causes
or allows conduct prohibited by §
52.116 of this code to show cause before the Authority or its duly authorized
representative why the proposed service termination action should not be taken.
   (B)   A written notice shall be served on the discharger by personal
service, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, specifying the
time and place of a hearing to be held by the Authority or its designee
regarding the violation, the reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken,
the proposed enforcement action, and directing the discharger to show cause
before the Authority or its designee why the proposed enforcement action should
not be taken.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served no less than ten days before
the hearing. Service may be made on any agent, officer or authorized
representative of a discharger. Appeals of such orders may be taken by the
discharger in accordance with applicable state laws.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.119 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Following the entry of any order by the Authority with respect to the
conduct of a discharger contrary to the provisions of §
52.116 of this code, the Town Attorney, following the authorization of such
action by the Authority, commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the appropriate local court.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.120 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS; ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   A list of all significant dischargers which were the subject of enforcement
proceedings pursuant to §
52.999 of this code during the 12 previous months shall be annually published
by the Authority in the largest daily newspaper published in the town,
summarizing the enforcement actions taken against the dischargers during the
same 12 months whose violations remain uncorrected 45 or more days after
notification of noncompliance, or which have exhibited a pattern of
noncompliance over that 12-month period, or which involve failure to accurately
report noncompliance.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.121 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any discharger or any interested party shall have the right to request in
writing an interpretation or ruling by the Authority on any matter covered by
this chapter and shall be entitled to a prompt written reply. In the event that
such inquiry is by a discharger and deals with matters of performance or
compliance with this chapter for which enforcement activity relating to an
alleged violation is the subject, receipt of a discharger’s request shall stay
all enforcement proceedings pending receipt of the aforesaid written reply.
Appeal of any final judicial order entered pursuant to this chapter may be
taken in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.122 OPERATING UPSETS.
   (A)   Any discharger which experiences an upset in operations which places
the discharger in a temporary state of noncompliance with this chapter shall
inform the Authority thereof within 24 hours of first awareness of the
commencement of the upset. Where such information is given orally, a written
follow-up report thereof shall be filed by the discharger with the Authority
within five days. The report shall specify:
      (1)   Description of the upset, the cause thereof and the upset’s impact
on a discharger’s compliance status;
      (2)   Duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and time of
noncompliance, and if the compliance is reasonably expected to occur; and
      (3)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of such an upset or other conditions of noncompliance.
   (B)   A documented and verified bona fide operating upset shall be an
affirmative defense to any enforcement action brought by the Authority against
a discharger for any noncompliance which arises out of violations alleged to
have occurred during the period of the upset.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.135 FEES PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the
payment of fees from dischargers to the Authority’s wastewater disposal system
and to compensate the Authority for the cost of administration of the
pretreatment program established herein.
   (B)   Charges and fees.
      (1)   The fees shall be billed to those facilities, persons, users and
dischargers who the Superintendent must monitor to determine compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter on a reasonable basis.
      (2)   These fees shall be based upon the time logs of the Superintendent
and his or her duly authorized representatives which show the number of visits
and time spent with reimbursement to be based upon the salary of the respective
representative at the cost to the Authority.
      (3)   In addition, there shall be assessed reimbursement expenses to the
Authority, to be paid by the discharger, user or persons, the cost of equipped
surveillance vehicle operation, cost of in-plant industrial analysis, cost of
any outside lab industrial analysis, administrative cost, laboratory fees for
each parameter tested in both scheduled and unscheduled analysis, rental rates
for the use of the flow measuring equipment and the automatic sampling
equipment, and any and all other program costs deemed necessary by the
Authority for monitoring an enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   Revision of charges and fees. The Authority shall review fees and
costs, along with all other charges associated with this program as they deem
necessary and amend this subchapter accordingly, by amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 52.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD-5). Has the same meaning as determined in
accordance with the procedures described in the most recent addition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council or any duly authorized officials acting on its
behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of NORMAL
DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. An act which is permissive.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. As defined
in §
52.001 of this code.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 250 mg/l; and
         (b)   TSS (total suspended solids) not more than 250 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
sewage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. As defined in §
52.001 of this code.
   SHALL. An act which is mandatory.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). As defined in accordance with the procedures
described in the most recent addition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater.
   TOWN. The Town of Mooresville, Indiana acting by and through the Town
Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment plant for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user whose premises are used primarily for the
conduct of a profit oriented enterprise in the field of manufacturing,
transportation, communications or utilities, mining, agriculture, forestry or
fishing that discharges or has the potential to discharge industrial waste to a
publicly-owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
      (6)   SPECIAL RESIDENTIAL USER. Any non-single-family residential
dwelling unit that is a user of the treatment works.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.137 CHARGES BY USER CLASS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, in order that the sewage works shall recover from each user and user
works in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost
of operation and maintenance (including replacement of the treatment works).
   (B)   User charges shall be uniform in magnitude with a user class.
      (1)   Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of user
charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the sewage works
equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the
purposes of this subchapter, shall be as follows:
         Class I:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Special residential;
         (c)   Commercial;
         (d)   Governmental;
         (e)   Institutional; and
         (f)   Industrial.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.138 DETERMINATION OF RATES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel or
real estate or building that is connected with the industrial wastes, water or
other system of the town.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
      (1)   Metered water users. The sewage rates and charges shall be based on
the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject to such
rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter there in use,
plus a basic charge based on the size of the water meter installed, except as
herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the
charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or period
equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates
and charges shall be determined is as follows.
Metered Usage
Metered Usage
5/8-inch meter                                           $25.30
3/4-inch meter                                           $33.70
1-inch meter                                             $56.65
1-1/4-inch meter                                         $87.95
1-1/2-inch meter                                         $125.60
2-inch meter                                             $213.50
3-inch meter                                             $485.30
4-inch meter                                             $840.75
6-inch meter                                             $1,907.20
8-inch meter                                             $3,394.05
Fixed minimum residential charge (2,000 gallons or less) $27.09
Flow charge (per 1,000 gallons)                          $5.18
 
      (2)   Un-metered water users.
         (a)   For users of the sewage works that are un-metered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The rate shall include a base rate according to the
estimated meter size as listed above, plus an estimated treatment charge as
outlined on the schedule of rates and charges as follows:
Un-metered Usage (Per Month)
Un-metered Usage (Per Month)
Commercial                                                                       
   Gasoline service station
      With car wash facilities                                            $148.73
      Without car wash facilities                                         $118.98
   Laundromats (per washer)                                                  $44.62
   Manual car wash (per bay)                                                 $148.73
   Professional office
         First two employees                                           $59.49
         Each additional employee                                      $20.85
   Restaurants, drive-ins and taverns with eating and drinking facilities
      First two employees                                                 $59.49
      Each additional employee                                            $20.85
   Retail establishment
      First three employees                                               $59.49
      Each additional employee                                            $14.87
   Shop or office in home                                                    $118.98
Governmental/institutional
   Churches, lodges and veteran organizations without eating and/or drinking
facilities
      For each 200 members or faction thereof                             $59.49
   Government offices
         First three employees                                         $59.49
         Each additional employee                                      $14.87
   School/student
         First 25 students                                             $59.49
         Each additional student                                       $2.38
Industrial (sanitary flow only)
   First three employees                                                     $59.49
   Each additional employee                                                  $14.87
Residential (assuming 6,600 gallon average)
   Apartment or trailer court/unit                                           $44.62
   Single-family residence/unit                                              $59.49
   Two or more dwelling units sharing a single water meter
      Minimum bill shall not be less than the number of dwelling units tim$25.30
 
         (b)   Special rate to be determined based on analysis, strength and
character of wastes.
   (C)   Town subject to rates. For the service rendered to the town, said town
shall be subject to the same rates and charges hereinabove provided or to
charges and rates established in harmony therewith.
   (D)   Cost of monitoring. In order to recover the cost of monitoring wastes,
the town shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring. This charge will
be reviewed and revised on the same basis as all other rates and charges in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010; Ord. 5-2020, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 52.139 ADJUSTMENTS TO CHARGES BASED ON WATER USE.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates, except as is
hereinafter provided in this section. The town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for the determining of sewage discharged.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town and, in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge, the flow rates and charges and minimum charge
shall apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate
or building served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at is expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric
measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable
to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (F)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than
the number of such dwelling units times $16.95 per month.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.140 ADJUSTMENTS TO CHARGES BASED ON STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF WASTES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume but also the strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary
sewage system in such manner and by such method as the town may deem practical
in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case in order to
determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point
available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter or total suspended solids in excess
of 250 milligrams per liter. Additional charges for treating stronger-than-
normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.12 per pound of total suspended solids for suspended
solids received in excess of 250 milligrams per liter.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.12 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
250 milligrams per liter.
   (C)   The determination of total suspended solids and five-day biochemical
oxygen demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest
copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage as written by the
American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and
the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, 40 C.F.R. part 136,
published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973 and all updates and
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.141 CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Each user connecting to the town’s sanitary sewage works system shall
pay a connection fee of $900. In addition, the user shall be responsible for
all costs of connecting to the town sewer system and the same shall be subject
to the inspections and approval of the town.
   (B)   Any user connecting to a local or lateral sewer after 30 days of the
date on which said sewer was available for connection shall be subject to a
connection charge of $1,100.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.142 BILLING.
   Such rates and charge shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town in
the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly and at the end of each year each user shall be given notice of that
amount of money charged for operation, maintenance and replacement for that
user during that year.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.143 STUDIES TO BE CONDUCTED BY TOWN.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operating
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debts service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the town or by a firm of certified public
accountants or a firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have experience
in such studies or by such combination of officers, employees, certified public
accountants or engineers as the town shall determine to be best under the
circumstance.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.144 ADMINISTRATION OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage system and
for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works that serves the town or to require
methods affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment
standards as set out in this chapter and any successor ordinance of the town.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.145 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of the
Town Council, shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator
of the user charge to the Town Council and that any decision concerning user
charges of the Town Council may be appealed to the County Circuit Court under
the appeal procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative Adjudication
Act.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.146 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to the sewage
works can be determined and such rate shall be limited to such costs. Said
contract shall be in compliance with public law.
(Ord. 8, 2010, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.147 BILLING CORRECTIONS.
   The following policy shall be adopted for the purpose of establishing a
procedure for dealing with wastewater treatment billings.
   (A)   The Town Council appoints the Clerk-Treasurer to adjust any wastewater
treatment billings under the amount of $20 and to make corrections and
adjustments deemed necessary in his or her discretion to appropriately
administer any billings for the sanitary treatment plant.
   (B)   The Town Council shall approve the writing off of specific sanitary
sewer bills that have been deemed uncollectible by the Town Clerk-Treasurer
through the normal billing process after following the statutory lien process
if it is applicable. Any sanitary sewer bills written off as bad debts shall be
approved by the Town Council with a written reason established for determining
why this bill is uncollectible based on sound business reasons.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for adjusting errors in the
billing, ERROR being defined as the calculation being incorrectly applied to
the amount of usage as applied to the existing rate established by the Town
Council.
(Res. 17, 2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 52.148 WAIVER OF SEWER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate or building that is
connected with and uses the sanitary sewer works system of the town, and who
shall be continuously absent from such lot, parcel of real estate or building
for a continuous period of 90 days or more, wherein no sanitary sewage shall be
discharged into the town’s sanitary sewer works system from such lot, parcel of
real estate or building for such continuous 90-day period or more, if such
owner follows the following procedure, then the sewer rates for such 90-day
period or more shall be waived.
   (B)   Such procedure to be as follows:
      (1)   File or have filed with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office a notice from
the Hoosier Water Company stating that said water service to said lot, parcel
of real estate or building has been shut off or disconnected;
      (2)   File a written certification with the Clerk-Treasurer indicating
the likelihood that such water service shall be disconnected continuously for a
period of more than 90 days and stating that such owner’s property shall not be
discharging sanitary sewage into the town’s sewage treatment works; and
      (3)   Certify to the Clerk-Treasurer that in the event the water service
to said lot, parcel of real estate or building, shall be reconnected by the
Hoosier Water Company Utility, that the owner of said property shall
immediately notify the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, in writing, within a period of
three days following the reconnection of the water supply to the owner’s said
lot, parcel of real estate or building.
   (C)   Any such waiver of rates shall be for a full month’s service, if
application for such waiver is made prior to the next billing date at the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Any resumption of use within a lesser period of a
month prior to the next regular scheduled billing date of the sanitary sewage
works utility shall not be pro-rated, but the owner of such lot, parcel of real
estate or building shall be charged for a full month’s service rate.
(Ord. 5, 1976, passed 9-21-1976)
§ 52.149 SUMMER SPRINKLER CREDIT.
   (A)   The Council hereby finds and determines that, based upon the rate
report, the Council will amend the wastewater fees to offer consumers with
installed residential irrigation systems and pools in the town a four-month
sprinkler credit for the months of July, August, September and October.
   (B)   Users will be required on an annual basis to file with the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office an application to receive the credit on his or her bill.
That application must be filed on or before June 1 each year in order to
receive the four-month credit, and applicants must provide proof that his or
her residence has an installed irrigation system or a pool. There will be a $25
administrative fee associated with the filing of the application each year.
Once the application is filed, it will automatically be processed, and the
credit will be applied for the months of July, August September and October.
   (C)   The Council finds and determines that the proposed credit as set forth
in the rate report is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and just and therefore
should be adopted.
   (D)   The credit established herein shall begin immediately and remain in
effect until amended or changed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 10, passed 6-21-2020)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
52.003 of this code shall be held financially responsible for any damages done,
in addition to any other town or state remedies under criminal stature.
   (C)   (1)   Any discharger who is found to have violated an order of the
Authority or who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter, and
the regulations or rules of the Authority, or orders of any court of competent
jurisdiction may be subjected to imposition of a civil penalty (fine) of at
least $1,000 per day per violation, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)
(vi)(A) as a violation of this chapter, but no more than $2,500 per day, per
violation, for a first violation nor more than $7,500 per day, per violation,
for subsequent violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
      (2)   (a)   Any discharger violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, or who discharges or causes a discharge producing a deposit or
obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the Authority’s wastewater disposal
system shall be liable to the Authority for any expense, loss or damage caused
by such violation or discharge. The Authority shall bill the discharger for the
costs incurred by the Authority for any cleaning, repair or replacement work
caused by the violation of the discharge. Refusal to pay the assessed costs
shall constitute a violation of this chapter enforceable under these penalty
provisions.
         (b)   The discharger violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall also be responsible for reimbursement for any fines or penalties incurred
by the town through the state or the EPA that are a direct result of the
violation of the discharger.
      (3)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation
or certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
imposition of a civil penalty of not more than $2,500.
   (D)   In the event any owner or other user of the town sewage treatment
works shall permit the dumping of waste and/or sewage into the town’s sewage
works, which are harmful to the operation of the system, then the owner or user
shall be required to pay for the damages plus a penalty of not less than $100
per day nor greater than $1,000 per day for each day in which such dumping
occurs. Such damages shall be not less than the actual costs to the town of
locating the source of dumping and repairing any damage to the sewage treatment
works caused by such dumping, including attorneys’ fees, sampling and
laboratory costs, engineering fees and all other costs associated with
enforcement and compliance of the town’s standards set out in this chapter and
any successor ordinance.
(Ord. 17-1989, passed 12-5-1989; Ord. 8, 2009, passed 11-3-2009; Ord. 8, 2010,
passed 7-20-2010)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Section
   
53.01   Enforcement response procedures
   
53.02   Procedures of the town
   
53.03   Violations
   
53.04   Range of enforcement response guide
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PROCEDURES.
   The following categories of significant noncompliance of industrial users
shall be subject to enforcement procedures initiated by the town:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as those in
which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed, by any magnitude, the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the
same pollutant parameter;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (hereinafter “TRC”) violations, defined as
those in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the
daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC
equals one and four-tenths for biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended
solids, fats, oil and grease and one and two-tenths for all other pollutants
except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum or
longer-term average) that the Control Authority determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW (publicly-owned treatment works/wastewater
treatment plant) personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority under 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3(1)(G) to halt or
prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or enforcement order
for starting construction, completing construction or attaining final
compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as:
      (1)   Baseline monitoring reports;
      (2)   Ninety-day compliance reports;
      (3)   Periodic self-monitoring reports; and
      (4)   Reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations that the Control Authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the
approved POTW pretreatment program.
(Ord. 11, 2009, passed 12-15-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 PROCEDURES OF THE TOWN.
   (A)   Data collection. This process involves the collection of all available
information from inspections, monitoring, reporting, plant upsets and private
complaints.
   (B)   Compliance screening. Missing material.
   (C)   Missing material.
(Ord. 11, 2009, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 53.03 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Missing material.
   (B)   Apparent good faith of responsible industrial user personnel.
      (1)   If industrial user personnel appear to be attempting in good faith
to comply with pretreatment requirements, town enforcement actions will
obviously be on a more cooperative level than if industrial user personnel do
not appear to be attempting to comply.
      (2)   (a)   Town personnel are aware that the Clean Water Act requires
extraordinary efforts to comply with its requirements in a timely way. Good
faith will be measured against this standard. Congress clearly expresses the
efforts that are expected.
         (b)   The Act requires industry to take extraordinary efforts if the
vital and ambitious goals of the Congress are to be met. This means that
business-as-usual is not enough. Prompt, vigorous and, in many cases, expensive
pollution control measures must be initiated and completed as promptly as
possible. In assessing the good faith of a discharger, the discharger is to be
judged against these criteria. Moreover, it is an established principle, which
applies to this act, that administrative and judicial reviews are sought on the
discharger’s own time.
   (C)   Definition of “significant noncompliance.” For the purpose of this
section, the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. The status of an industrial user that has
caused or allowed a violation that meets one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed, by any magnitude, the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals one and
four-tenths for biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, fats, oil
and grease and one and two-tenths for all other pollutants except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily
maximum or longer term average) that the Control Authority determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority under 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3(1)(G) to
halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as:
            1.   Baseline monitoring reports;
            2.   Ninety-day compliance reports;
            3.   Periodic self-monitoring reports; and
            4.   Reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the Control
Authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the approved POTW pretreatment program.
   (D)   The harm caused by the violation. Violations are evaluated to
determine the suspected or measured adverse environmental impact and rated
accordingly.
(Ord. 11, 2009, passed 12-15-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
Editor’s note:
   See the legislative history of the Clean Water Act, No. 95-14, Vol.3, p.
463.
§ 53.04 RANGE OF ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE GUIDE.
   (A)   Sampling, monitoring and reporting.
Noncompliance Circumstances Range of Response
Noncompliance             Circumstances              Range of Response
                                                     Written letter of
                                                     violation (LOV) requiring
                                                     a report within five days.
                                                     No response leads to
                                                     significant noncompliance,
                          One time which results in  then formal action, then
Discharge without a       environmental damage or    cease and desist order,
permit or approval        continuing violation       including civil penalties,
                                                     but could include
                                                     emergency considerations
                                                     which accelerate
                                                     enforcement features
                                                     leading to termination of
                                                     service
Discharge without a       One time without known     Phone call, LOV, formal
permit or approval        environmental or POTW      action, then CD if
                          damage                     necessary
                                                     Civil penalties,
                                                     injunctive relief follow,
                                                     then show cause hearings
                          Continuing violation with  leading to termination of
Discharge without a       known environmental or     service, but could include
permit or approval        POTW damage                emergency considerations
                                                     which accelerate
                                                     enforcement features
                                                     leading to termination of
                                                     service
                                                     Phone call, LOV, formal
                                                     action (compliance
                                                     schedules) and if
                          Results in known           necessary, CD with civil
Exceeding interim limits  environmental or POTW      penalties recommended, but
                          damage                     could include emergency
                                                     considerations which
                                                     accelerate enforcement
                                                     features leading to
                                                     termination of service
                          Four or more violations of Phone call, LOV, formal
                          the same effluent limits   action (compliance
Exceeding final limits    or two violations which    schedules) and if
                          exceed TRC                 necessary, CD with civil
                                                     penalties recommended
                                                     Written letter of
                          Infrequent or isolated     violation (LOV) requiring
                          major violations exceed    a report within five days.
Exceeding final limits    the limits by TRC of a     No response leads to
                          single effluent limit      significant noncompliance,
                                                     then formal action, then
                                                     cease and desist order
Exceeding final limits    Infrequent or isolated
(categorical, local or    minor violation            LOV
prohibited)
                                                     Written letter of
                                                     violation (LOV) requiring
Failure to sample,                                   a report within five days.
monitor or report         Isolated or infrequent     No response leads to
(routine reports, BMRs)                              significant noncompliance,
                                                     then formal action, then
                                                     cease and desist order
                          IU does not respond to     Civil penalties,
Failure to sample,        letters, does not follow   injunctive relief follow,
monitor, report or notify through on verbal or       then show cause hearings
                          written agreement or       leading to termination of
                          administrative order       service
Failure to notify of      Isolated or infrequent. No
effluent limit violation  known effects              LOV
or slug discharge
                                                     Phone call, LOV, formal
                                                     action (compliance
                                                     schedules) to begin
                                                     monitoring (using outside
Failure to install        Continued                  contracts if necessary)
monitoring equipment                                 and install equipment
                                                     within minimal time.
                                                     Continued noncompliance
                                                     leads to termination of
                                                     service
                                                     Civil penalties,
                                                     injunctive relief follow,
                                                     then show cause hearings
Failure to notify of                                 leading to termination of
effluent limit violation  Known environmental or     service, but could include
or slug discharge         POTW damage results        emergency considerations
                                                     which accelerate
                                                     enforcement features
                                                     leading to termination of
                                                     service
                                                     Written letter of
                                                     violation (LOV) requiring
Failure to notify of      Frequent or continued      a report within five days.
effluent limit violation  violation                  No response leads to
or slug discharge                                    significant noncompliance,
                                                     then formal action, then
                                                     cease and desist order
Major or gross sampling,
monitoring or reporting,                             Phone call, LOV, followed
deficiencies (missing     Isolated or infrequent     by formal action
information, late                                    (compliance schedules)
reports)
                          Continued. Remains         CD or judicial action
Major or gross reporting  uncorrected 30 days or     leading to show cause
deficiencies              more                       hearing and termination of
                                                     service
Minor violation of permit No evidence of negligence  LOV
condition                 or intent
Minor sampling,
monitoring or reporting                              LOV. Corrections to be
deficiencies              Isolated or infrequent     made on next submittal
(computational or
typographical errors)
Minor violation of        Any instance               LOV
analytical procedures
Minor violation of        No evidence of intent      LOV
analytical procedures
Minor violation of        Evidence of negligence or  Phone call, LOV, formal
analytical procedures     intent                     action, then CD if
                                                     necessary
                                                     Written letter of
                                                     violation (LOV) requiring
Minor violation of permit Evidence of negligence or  a report within five days.
condition                 intent                     No response leads to
                                                     significant noncompliance,
                                                     then formal action, then
                                                     cease and desist order
                                                     Written letter of
                          Will result in order       violation (LOV) requiring
                          missing interim dates.     a report within five days.
Missed interim date       Violation for good or      No response leads to
                          valid cause                significant noncompliance,
                                                     then formal action, then
                                                     cease and desist order
                          Will not cause late final
Missed interim date       date or other interim      LOV
                          dates
                          Will result in order       Phone call, LOV, then
Missed interim date       missed interim dates. No   formal action, then cease
                          good or valid cause        and desist with civil
                                                     penalty recommendations
                          Violation due to outside   Contact permittee and
Missed final date         force (strike, act of God  require documentation of
                          and the like)              good or valid cause
                          90 days or more            Civil penalties,
                          outstanding. Failure or    injunctive relief follow,
Missed final date         refusal to comply without  then show cause hearings
                          good or valid cause        leading to termination of
                                                     service
Reported slug load        Isolated without known     LOV
                          damage
                                                     Phone call, LOV, formal
                                                     action (compliance
                                                     schedules) and if
                          Isolated with known        necessary, CD with civil
Reported slug load        interference, pass through penalties recommended, but
                          or damage                  could include emergency
                                                     considerations which
                                                     accelerate enforcement
                                                     features leading to
                                                     termination of service
                                                     Written letter of
                                                     violation (LOV) requiring
                                                     a report within five days.
Reported slug load        Recurring                  No response leads to
                                                     significant noncompliance,
                                                     then formal action, then
                                                     cease and desist order
                                                     Written letter of
                                                     violation (LOV) requiring
Reporting false                                      a report within five days.
information               Any instance               No response leads to
                                                     significant noncompliance,
                                                     then formal action, then
                                                     cease and desist order
 
   (B)   Use of range of enforcement guide.
      (1)   This range of enforcement guide addresses a broad range of
pretreatment violations. It is not intended to cover all types of violations.
The responses in this guide are suggested responses. The town may use
alternative enforcement responses that are equally effective. The measure of
the effectiveness of an enforcement response includes:
         (a)   Whether the noncomplying source returns to compliance as
expeditiously as possible; and
         (b)   Whether the enforcement response establishes the appropriate
deterrent effect for the particular violator and for other potential violators;
and whether the enforcement response promotes fairness of government treatment
as between comparable violators, as well as between complying and noncomplying
parties.
      (2)   This guide has been developed for guidance and is not intended to
create legal rights or obligations or to limit the enforcement discretion of
town.
(Ord. 11, 2009, passed 12-15-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Missing material.
   (B)   Any discharger who is found to have significantly violated or fails to
comply with any enforcement action of this chapter and the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued hereunder, may be fined not less than $1,000 for
each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the town may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court
reporter fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law
against the person found to have significantly violated this chapter or orders,
rules, regulations and permits issued. The response to this directive will then
be evaluated as to whether the discharger has returned to compliance. If
compliance is not achieved, the enforcement action will proceed to show cause
considerations.
   (C)   Missing material.
(Ord. 11, 2009, passed 12-15-2009)
CHAPTER 54: NON-DELEGATED PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Pretreatment program requirements
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in 327 I.A.C. 5-17 and all amendments thereto are
incorporated herein, and for the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (CA). The Commissioner of the state’s Department of
Environmental Management.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A non-domestic discharger introducing pollutants into a
POTW, regardless of whether the discharger is within the governmental
jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, along or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; and/or
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901),
including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401); and
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601).
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, are a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
      (1)   State pretreatment standards as established in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-8;
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 I.A.C. 5-18-2; and
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards referenced in 327
I.A.C. 5-18-10.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned by the state
or a municipality, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. The term also
includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
a POTW treatment plant. POTW also means the municipality that has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10;
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the POTW;
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry-weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the Control
Authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the POTW’s operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3.
      (3)   The Control Authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 I.A.C. 5-193(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet Part III.A.3.b.(3) of this permit.
(Ord. 8, 2009, passed 11-3-2009)
§ 54.02 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.
   In accordance with 327 I.A.C. 5-19-7, the permittee shall comply with the
following pretreatment program requirements, and it shall be a violation of
this chapter for any of the following to occur.
   (A)   A user of the POTW, whether or not the user is subject to national
categorical standards or state, local or any other national pretreatment
standard or requirement, shall not allow the introduction of the following into
the POTW:
      (1)   A pollutant from any source of non-domestic wastewater that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
POTW;
      (2)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
POTW, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F
(60°C) using the test methods in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (3)   A pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, including a discharge with pH lower than 5.0, unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such a discharge;
      (4)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the POTW;
      (5)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
biochemical oxygen demand) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the POTW;
      (6)   Heat in an amount that could:
         (a)   Inhibit biological activity in the POTW and result in
interference or damage to the POTW; or
         (b)   Exceed 104°F or 40°C at the POTW treatment plan, unless the
Commissioner, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature limits.
      (7)   Petroleum, oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin in an amount that could cause interference or pass through;
      (8)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems; and/or
      (9)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the POTW; and
         (b)   When introduced to the POTW at a discharge point designated by
the POTW.
   (B)   All prohibited substances listed in division (A) above, such that the
following are limited:
      (1)   A pollutant contributed by an industrial user that has caused or is
likely to cause interference or pass through at the receiving POTW; and
      (2)   The recurrence of the contributed pollutant’s affect on the POTW.
   (C)   The POTW shall have the legal authority to enforce specific limits on
prohibited substances as set out in this chapter and all amendments hereto.
(Ord. 8, 2009, passed 11-3-2009)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
52.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 8, 2009, passed 11-3-2009)
CHAPTER 55: DEVELOPER AND NEW USER CONTRIBUTIONS
Section
   
55.01   Availability costs
   
55.02   Wastewater treatment plant connections
   
55.03   Manner of payment
   
55.04   Off-site trunk sewerage
   
55.05   Ownership of system
   
55.06   Inspections and approval of on-site sewers
   
55.07   Definitions
   
55.08   Allocation of receipts
   
55.09   Annexation remonstrance restriction
   
55.10   Sewer availability and wastewater treatment plant connections
§ 55.01 AVAILABILITY COSTS.
   (A)   General. No connection to any town-owned trunk sanitary sewer shall be
allowed until a permit is obtained and payment as a contribution to aid in
construction has been made into the town’s Sewage Collection Fund, which is a
depository of such contributions and designated funds. These contributions
shall be regarded as a benefit as defined by the Town Council. This is a
benefit cost intended to provide funds for sewage collection and improvement
projects by the town or owners of real estate and provide owners of real estate
such protection as is afforded by the provisions of statutes of the state for
sanitary sewerage facilities constructed by said owners of real estate under
contract with the town.
   (B)   Amount.
      (1)   These costs, designated as availability costs shall be fixed by the
town as hereinafter provided. Such availability costs shall be and are hereby
established in the sum of $1,100 per single-family residence, to be served or
its waste load equivalent, as defined in §
55.10 of this code, and shall be from time to time updated and fixed by the
town.
      (2)   Project costs, in all cases, shall expressly include reasonable and
documented construction costs, legal costs, engineering costs, construction
inspection costs and easement acquisition costs as shall be administered and
defined by the Town Council. Easements in each case, as may be required by the
Town Council, must be obtained by the owner of the real estate. Projects which
shall be funded from the Sewage Collection Fund shall include new trunk and
interceptor sewers, improvements to existing trunk or intercept sewers and such
sewage collection improvements projects as determined by the Town Council.
      (3)   The availability cost of $1,100 per equivalent dwelling unit or its
waste load equivalent may be allocated to and paid into the project cost of the
specific interceptor extension (off-site interceptor and on-site oversizing)
for which it is paid.
      (4)   The applicant-owners of real estate applying for sewer extensions
shall make payments to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for such payment in accordance
with costs set forth. Payments are due and shall be made in accordance with §
55.03 of this code.
      (5)   Payment of the availability cost may be made in cash or by the
dedication to the town’s sewer system facilities consisting of interceptor
sewers, forced mains, lift stations and other related sewer system facilities
other than on-site sewers and service lines acceptable to and preapproved by
the Town Council. To the extent that the cost of such dedicated property is
less than the required availability cost, the owner or developer shall pay the
balance of said cost in cash.
      (6)   Trunk sewer extension projects shall be, in accordance with the
latest development plan, developed and approved by the Town Council. Plans and
specification for specific trunk sewerage extensions, and for all local,
lateral and sub-trunk sewers, shall be submitted to and receive approval from
the Town Council and all applicable regulatory agencies prior to start of
construction (a copy of all such approvals shall be filed with the town’s Sewer
Department in the Town Hall within ten days after receipt of approval).
   (C)   Additional funds contributed.
      (1)   The availability costs shall be strictly nonrefundable. If by prior
agreement, in order to extend the trunk sewer system, additional funds are
necessary to extend the sewer to the owners of real estate, such additional
funds advanced or contributed by said owners of real estate for the extensions
and/or oversizing to meet the requirements of the town, are refundable, without
interest. However, such refunds may be made only from the developer
availability accounts deposits.
      (2)   In no event will any of the town sewerage revenues be used,
committed or encumbered to repay any such funds advanced or contributed, nor
will the town’s General Fund be used, committed or encumbered to repay any such
funds advanced or contributed. It is expressly declared that such repayment, if
any, will be made under the provisions of and will be repaid only from funds
deposited in the Sewage Collection Fund on the basis of first in, first out. No
provision of this chapter shall be construed as a guarantee by the town that
the owners of real estate advancing funds will be fully reimbursed therefor.
   (D)   Accounts.
      (1)   Two separate accounts will be established from the availability
costs assessed and proceeds shall be placed in the Sewage Collection Fund which
will consist of the two funds set out below. In one account will be deposited
25% of the assessed availability cost which shall be used, at the discretion of
the Town Council, for work on the existing sewerage. The name of this account
will be the town availability account.
      (2)   The second account will be established from 75% of the availability
cost assessed. This second account shall be used for reimbursement, refunds,
repayment to owners of real estate for extension and/or re-sizing to meet
requirements of the town and for which a prior written agreement was
negotiated. The name of this account will be the developer availability
account.
   (E)   Oversizing.
      (1)   Refunding of costs for oversizing to meet town requirements shall
be made only for the portion of the oversizing which lies within the real
estate owner’s development as requested in writing by the Town Council. In the
event the availability cost does not provide sufficient funds to extend and/or
oversize the trunk sewer, as needed, no such sewer extension into the
development, or oversizing, will be considered by the Town Council unless the
owners of real estate desire to advance and pay the excess costs of the
project.
      (2)   In the event oversizing of sewage lift stations and other
applicable appurtenance and/or oversizing and extensions of trunk sewers
constructed within their development by owners of real estate are necessary to
deliver sewage from other areas to the trunk sewer, or from one trunk to
another, such oversizing shall be deemed to be part of the trunk sewer cost to
the extent of the oversizing only, and as such, would be considered for refund
under provisions of division (C) above.
      (3)   Any required extensions to the property line by owners of real
estate necessary to deliver sewage from other areas to the trunk sewer, or from
one trunk to another, will be considered part of the trunk sewer cost and not
part of the on-site local sewer cost and as such, would be considered for
refund under provisions of division (C) above.
   (F)   Repayment method. Repayment, reimbursement or refund for oversizing or
extension costs must be requested by the real estate owner at the time of
application for sewer extensions and should be requested from the Town Council.
The amount of eligible repayment will be negotiated with the Town Council prior
to signing of the final plat by the Plan Commission, and in the event there is
not a final plat to be executed then this must be accomplished prior to the
filing for approval of the sewer extension (infrastructure) with the state’s
Department of Environmental Management. The amount of eligible repayment,
reimbursement or refund set by the Town Council for oversizing shall be for
construction, labor and materials only. The repayment, reimbursement or refund
for sewer extension shall be the project cost as defined in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.02 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Where an individual connection is sought for acreage or developed
areas inside or outside the corporate limits of the town, sewer users shall pay
a connection cost based on an equivalent development unit (EDU factor) pursuant
to §
55.10 of this code for a single-family residence, which is hereby initially
fixed and established at $900. This unit cost per EDU assumes an average daily
EDU wastewater flow of 300 gallons per day at a unit cost for additional
wastewater treatment capacity of $3 per gallon of plant capacity. New sewer
connections in conjunction with their designated type of service referenced in
§
55.10 of this code will presently pay a connection cost based on the
multiplication of the listed EDU factor times $900. The equivalent user cost,
may, from time to time, be updated and changed by the town. Funds collected,
including inspection costs, shall be deposited into the town’s Plant Expansion
and Improvement Fund. Funds collected shall be used for the expansion and other
capital improvements of sewerage facilities including bond payments on past
capital projects and future capital projects relating to the town’s sewerage
system.
   (B)   Connection of users not listed in §
55.10 of this code (which is attached hereto and made a part hereof) or any
user which the Town Council believes to vary substantially (substantially
meaning by more than 15% from the EDU factor listed in §
55.10 of this code or a user who due to some unique characteristic does not fit
in any category listed on § 55.10 of this code) shall have its EDU factor
determined by the Town Council based on projected EDU wastewater flows or any
other equitable means as determined by the Town Council. For the purposes of
reviewing the unit contribution, the usage of a single-family residence will be
considered as 300 gallons per day. Users listed in §
55.10 of this code shall also be billed a monthly rate in accordance with
current sewer rate charges.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.03 MANNER OF PAYMENT.
   Payment of the availability and connections costs shall be made at the
following times and in the following manner.
   (A)   Availability costs. The first half of the availability cost shall be
paid at the time of the issuance of the plat or planned unit development
approved by the town’s Plan Commission, approving the plat for recording
purposes. In the event the property is being platted in sections, the
installment shall be due on the respective sections as they are platted. In the
event the property is not part of a plat or planned unit development, then one-
half shall be due and paid upon completion of the construction of the proposed
sewer improvements and the acceptance by the town, which shall occur prior to
the issuance of any building permit on structures served by the line. This
initial payment shall be based upon a minimum of one-tenth of an EDU per 1,000
square feet. The balance of the availability cost shall be paid at the time of
occupancy based upon actual EDU calculations determined by the town at that
time based upon the town’s determination of the applicable use under §
55.10 of this code. In the event the use changes during the first year of the
occupancy to a greater number of EDUs, then the additional monies shall be due
immediately upon the change of use. This change of use factor shall be
applicable only for the initial year from the date of first occupancy.
   (B)   Connection costs. Connection costs shall be due and payable upon
application for connection to the town’s sanitary sewer system. In the event
the use changes within the first year from the date of occupancy to a greater
number of EDUs, then additional fees shall be due and owing immediately upon
the change of occupancy within that one-year period. Upon a showing to the Town
Council of some undue hardship and public need or enhancement by the
connection, the Town Council shall have the discretion to waive the connection
fees.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994; Ord. 10, 1998, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 55.04 OFF-SITE TRUNK SEWERAGE.
   (A)   All easements shall be dedicated to the town and shall be obtained by
and, if necessary, paid for by the owners of real estate. Easements shall be in
a form approved by the town.
   (B)   The owners of the real estate applying for trunk sewer service shall
deposit, with the town, adequate funds to pay for appurtenant non-construction
costs prior to the town proceeding with preparation of plans and
specifications, if required. If the project does not proceed to completion
after project costs are established, money so deposited by the owners of real
estate shall be nonrefundable and will be used to pay incurred expenses. If
funds are in excess of expenses, the excess will be returned to the owners of
real estate making the deposit or their successors. If the project progresses
to completion, the deposit will be credited to the total project cost.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.05 OWNERSHIP OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   All extensions to the town sewerage systems shall be dedicated to and
must be accepted by the town before connection, and once connected, shall
become and remain thereafter the sole property of the town without further
dedication thereof.
   (B)   The owners of real estate making such dedication shall post at the
time of dedication, three years maintenance equal to 10% of the project cost in
a form acceptable to the town.
   (C)   Owners of real estate shall agree and furnish affidavit that they have
paid in full contractor or contractors, material, workers and laborers in cash
the full cost of said extension or extensions.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.06 INSPECTIONS AND APPROVAL OF ON-SITE SEWERS.
   The owners of real estate obtaining a permit of sewerage extensions shall
submit plans for on-site sewers, including trunk sewers to be constructed
within the development, to the town for review and approval prior to start of
construction. During construction of said on-site sewers, the owners of real
estate shall pay the expense of an inspector to assure that the construction of
the facilities are in compliance with current standards and specifications
established by the town. Upon completion of construction, the owners of real
estate shall provide certified record construction drawings to the town within
30 days. If certified record construction drawings are not provided, as above
required, the town may prepare these at the expense of said owners of real
estate. No potential reimbursable expenses of oversizing and/or off-site
interceptor construction will be allowed until record drawings are provided and
approved. The town will provide the inspector or may approve, in writing, some
person designated by the owners of real estate.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTERCEPTOR COSTS. Sewer costs external to a development.
   LOCAL SEWER COSTS. Sewer costs within a development being served.
   OVERSIZING COSTS. The difference in material and labor costs for oversizing
local sewers that will be used as a part of trunk sewers to serve other areas
as outlined in §
55.01(E) and (F) of this code which will be considered interceptor costs and
shall qualify for refunding.
   OWNER OF REAL ESTATE. An individual, firm, company, partnership,
cooperation, governmental units or charitable and other non-profit organization
holding legal title to real estate.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.08 ALLOCATION OF RECEIPTS.
   (A)   The availability costs provided in §§
55.01 and
55.03 of this code shall be collected by the town and deposited to the Sewage
Collection Fund.
   (B)   The individual connection charges provided in §§
55.02 and
55.03 of this code shall be collected by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and deposited
to the Plant Expansion and Improvement Fund.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.09 ANNEXATION REMONSTRANCE RESTRICTION.
   All persons or corporations, their or its survivors, heirs or assigns who
shall connect to any sewer main built pursuant to this chapter shall agree in
writing prior to said connection, to waive their or its rights to remonstrate
against annexation by the town.
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
§ 55.10 SEWER AVAILABILITY AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT CONNECTIONS.
Type of Service EDU Factor
Type of Service                                 EDU Factor
Barber and beauty shops                         0.4 per chair
Car wash                                        2.0 per bay
Laundry                                         1.3 per washer
Mobile homes and parks                          0.8 per unit
Motels and hotels                               0.4 per guest room
Multi-family and apartments over four units     0.8 per unit
Nursing homes                                   0.3 per bed
Office building
   First 1,000 square feet                   1.0
   Each additional 1,000 square feet         1.0 plus 0.5
Other sewer uses                                Set by Town Council
Professional building                           0.5 per employee
Restaurant
   Drive-in                                  0.2 per car space
   Inside dining                             0.1 per seat
Retail service                                  0.2 per employee
Schools and libraries                           0.1 per employee or student
Service clubs and churches                      2.0
Service station                                 0.2 per employee
Single-family residence (equivalent development 1.0
unit)
Two- to four-family residences                  1.0 per unit
 
(Ord. 2 1994, passed 4-5-1994)
CHAPTER 56: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
56.01   Findings
   
56.02   Authority
   
56.03   Purpose
   
56.04   Applicability; exemptions; general provisions
   
56.05   Variances
   
56.06   Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements
   
56.07   Fees
   
56.08   Development of a Stormwater Design Manual
   
56.09   Definitions
   
56.10   Submission requirements and plan approvals
   
56.11   Detention requirements
   
56.12   Conveyance requirements
   
56.13   Emergency access easement requirements
   
56.14   Flood control and management
   
56.15   Water quality
   
56.16   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
   
56.17   Enforcement
   
56.18   Facility maintenance responsibilities
   
56.19   Illicit connections and illegal dumping
§ 56.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of the town are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the town and the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream
channel erosion, and sediment transport and deposition;
   (D)   Stormwater runoff produced by land development contributes to
increased quantities of water-borne pollutants;
   (E)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution, due
to land development within the town, have resulted in the deterioration of the
water resources of the town and downstream municipalities, Increased stormwater
runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and pollutants associated with
stormwater runoff from development projects within the town may, absent
reasonable regulation and control, adversely affect the town’s water bodies and
water resources, and those of downstream municipalities.
   (F)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution can be
controlled and/or minimized by the regulation and management of stormwater
runoff from development;
   (G)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained in this
chapter and implementing the same will address many of the detrimental effects
of stormwater runoff; and
   (H)   Adopting these standards is necessary for the preservation of the
soils and topography of the town as well as the public health, safety, and
welfare.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.02 AUTHORITY.
   The town has the authority to adopt a stormwater management ordinance
pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq., by “Home Rule” and further as required by
Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Stormwater
program (40 CFR Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124; December 8, 1999) authorized by the
1987 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management’s (IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) General Permit
(MS4GP), and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management’s Construction
Stormwater General Permit (CSGP).
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum stormwater management
requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general health, safety,
and welfare of the public. This chapter seeks to accomplish, among others, the
following objectives:
   (A)   To reduce flood damage;
   (B)   To mitigate increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes from
identified new land development;
   (C)   To minimize the deterioration of existing watercourses, culverts and
bridges, and other structures associated with stormwater conveyance;
   (D)   To encourage water recharge into the ground where geologically
favorable conditions exist;
   (E)   To reduce the potential for point-source and non-point source
pollution through requirements for construction site stormwater Best Management
Practices (BMPs) and post construction stormwater quality BMPs;
   (F)   To maintain the integrity of stream channels for biological functions,
as well as for drainage and other purposes;
   (G)   To minimize the impact of development upon stream bank and stream bed
stability;
   (H)   To reduce erosion and off-site sedimentation from development or
construction projects;
   (I)   To preserve and protect water supply facilities and water resources by
means of controlling increased flood discharges, stream erosion, and runoff
pollution;
   (J)   To reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and non-
point source pollution, wherever practicable, from lands that were developed
without stormwater management controls meeting the purposes and standards of
this chapter as well as future developments;
   (K)   To implement the minimum standards established in this chapter to
protect water bodies from degradation resulting from changing land use where
there are insufficient stormwater management controls;
   (L)   To protect adjoining property owners from detrimental impacts caused
by changing land use and/or drainage;
   (M)   To ensure that mineral extraction is carried out without adverse
impact on water bodies or nearby land owners;
   (N)   To comply with the standards set forth in the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management’s (IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4)
General Permit (MS4GP).
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.04 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to any development within the incorporated
boundaries of the town within the jurisdiction of this chapter which include
land disturbance. Refer to the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual for land
disturbance calculation guidance.
   (B)   (1)   Projects with land disturbance of greater than or equal to
10,000 square feet and less than one acres shall obtain SWMPA from the PWO.
      (2)   Projects with greater than or equal to one acre of land disturbance
shall obtain SWMPA from the town and also obtain a CSGP from IDEM.
   (C)   The following agricultural operations are considered development for
the purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   Buildings, including bams and buildings to house livestock.
      (2)   Roads associated with infrastructure.
      (3)   Agricultural waste lagoons and other facilities.
      (4)   Lake, ponds and impoundments.
      (5)   Wetlands constructed voluntarily or as mitigation.
      (6)   Other infrastructure.
   (D)   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   The installation or removal of individual mobile homes within a
mobile home park. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to the
construction, expansion, or modification of a mobile home park.
      (2)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities, including tillage,
planting, cultivation, or harvesting operations to produce agricultural or
nursery and vegetative crops, pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile.
      (3)   Plats with preliminary plat approval and other developments with
final land use approval prior to the effective date of this chapter, where such
approvals remain in effect.
      (4)   Building additions where the total increase in impervious surface
including parking lots, sidewalks, and the like, is less than 10,000 square
feet except where the PWO has identified flooding concerns.
      (5)   Silvicultural activities associated with non-point source
discharges (40 CFR 122.27).
      (6)   Stormwater discharges associated with oil and gas exploration,
production, processing or treatment operations, or transmission facilities (40
CFR 122.26).
      (7)   Ditch maintenance for activities performed on a regulated drain by
a county drainage board as defined in I.C. 36-9-27.
      (8)   The land-disturbing activities listed below, provided other
applicable permits contain provisions requiring immediate implementation of
erosion and sediment control measures and stormwater management measures:
         (a)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
         (b)   Coalmining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
         (c)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste
pursuant to a permit issued by IDEM under 329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent
stormwater requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and
construction of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste
permit boundary.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.05 VARIANCES.
   A variance from any or all requirements of this chapter may be granted by
the specific approval of the PWO. No variance shall be approved that would
ultimately result in failure by the PWO to meet the requirements of any federal
or state law. Variance requests that are denied will list how it diminishes the
protective standards from human health or the environment set forth by this
chapter. A denied variance may be appealed to the Mooresville Drainage Board
(“Board”) within 60 days of receipt of the denial. Requests for variance from
the requirements of this chapter must be in written form, addressed to the town
and demonstrate the following:
   (A)   Specify the provision(s) of this chapter and/or the provision(s) of
the Stormwater Design Manual from which the variance is requested;
   (B)   Clearly state the reason for the variance request and why the
conditions of this chapter cannot be met; and
   (C)   Describe how the requested variance does not diminish the protective
standards for human health or the environment set forth by this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.06 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to interfere with or annul any other ordinance,
rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The requirements of
this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision
of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions
are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or
the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.07 FEES.
   The fee schedule for stormwater management permit, review, inspection, and
penalties shall be according to the following:
Minor Subdivision - Primary and Final                                        $250
Major Subdivision - Primary                                                  $450
Major Subdivision (Each Section) - Secondary                                 $250
Planned Unit Development Preliminary Plan                                    $250
Planned Unit Development Final Detailed Plan (Each Phase)                    $450
Revision or Amendment to a Recorded or Approved Plat                         $ 250.00
Lot Site Plan Review — Business, Industrial, & Multi-Family                $350.00
Lot Site Plan Review - Residential Single and Two-Family                     $ 100.00
Revision or Amendment to Approved Site Plan - Business Industrial & Multi    $ 250.00
Family
Revision or Amendment to Approved Site Plan - Residential Single and Two-    $ 75.00
Family
Annual inspection for each permitted BMP or detention/retention facility     $250.00
                                                                             Not less
                                                                             than $200
                                                                             or more
Failure to maintain an approved BMP and/or detention/retention facility, §  than
56.18                                                                        $1,000 per
                                                                             BMP or
                                                                             facility
                                                                             per
                                                                             violation
                                                                             Not less
                                                                             than $100
Failure to maintain plan approved easements, §                              or more
56.18                                                                        than $500
                                                                             per
                                                                             violation
                                                                             $300 for
                                                                             each BMP
Failure to have annual inspection of BMP and/or detention/retention facility or
                                                                             detention/
                                                                             retention
                                                                             facility
All fees are nonrefundable. Each of the above minimum base fees includes a $50
administrative fee and engineering review fee at the rate of $100 per hour. If the
engineering review requires more than the above fees covers then the additional time
required for reviews will be charged at the rate of $100.00 per hour. The fee shall be
paid in full to the town before a permit is issued.
 
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.08 DEVELOPMENT OF A STORMWATER DESIGN MANUAL.
   (A)   The Board has furnished additional policy, criteria and information
including specifications and standards, for the proper implementation of the
requirements of this chapter in the form of a Mooresville Stormwater Design
Manual.
   (B)   This Manual includes details of acceptable stormwater management and
treatment practices, including specific design criteria for each stormwater
practice. The Manual may be updated and expanded as necessary and needed from
time to time by the town, subject to approval by the Board, based on
improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience. Stormwater treatment practices that are designed and constructed in
accordance with the design and sizing criteria will be presumed to meet the
minimum water quality and quantity performance standards.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also referred to as the “100-YEAR FLOOD”).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The height of the base flood in relation to the
North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88); commonly referred to as the
“100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION.”
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE or BMP. Any structural or nonstructural control
measure utilized to improve the quality and, as appropriate, reduce the storm
water run-off rate. The term includes schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practice, treatment requirements, operation and maintenance procedures, use of
containment facilities, land use planning, policy techniques, and other
practices that comply with Mooresville’s Stormwater Design Manual.
   BOARD. The Mooresville Town Council.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure constructed or erected partially or wholly
above ground. The term BUILDING includes both the above-ground and the below-
ground portions of the structure.
   BUILDING OPENING. Any opening of a solid wall such as a window or door,
through which floodwaters could penetrate.
   CHANNEL. A conveyance intended to carry runoff such as a swale or ditch.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. Sec.
1251 et seq., as amended, and the applicable regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER RUNOFF. Stormwater runoff from a development
site following a land alteration.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structural process for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit such as a pipe designed for the conveyance of
surface drainage water under a roadway, railroad, embankment or other
impediment (see also PIPE SYSTEM).
   DETENTION. A system which is designed to capture stormwater, store it, and
release it over a given period of time through an outlet structure at a
controlled rate.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A manmade structure for the temporary storage of
stormwater runoff with a controlled release during or immediately following a
storm.
   DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT. A land alteration that requires, pursuant to state
law or local ordinance, the approval of a site plan, plat, special land use,
planned unit development, rezoning of land, land division approval, private
road approval, or other approvals required for the construction of land or the
erection of buildings or structures; provided, however, that for purposes of
this chapter only, DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT shall not include the actual
construction of, or an addition, extension or modification to, an individual
single-family or a two-family detached dwelling,
   DEVELOPER. Any person proposing or implementing the development of land.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any land that is being or has been developed or that a
developer proposes for development.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who directly or indirectly discharges stormwater from
any property, DISCHARGER also means any employee, officer, director, partner,
contractor, or other person who participates in, or is legally or factually
responsible for, any act or omission that is or results in a violation of this
chapter.
   DITCH. An earthen conveyance with side slopes steeper than 5:1 or carrying
greater than ten cubic feet per second.
   DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus ground water or surface
water.
   DRAINAGE. The collection, conveyance, or discharge of ground water and/or
surface water.
   DRAINAGE FACILITIES. All ditches, channels, conduits, retention-detention
systems, tiles, swales, sewers, and other natural or artificial means of
draining stormwater from land.
   EASEMENT. An authorization grant by a property owner for the use by another
of any designated part of his property for a clearly specified purpose
including but not limited to common pedestrian ways and hiking and biking
paths.
   ENGINEER. A person licensed to practice engineering in the State of Indiana.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   USEPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency of the federal
government charged with emergency management.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of water
bodies or the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface water runoff from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area subject to periodic flooding.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any structural and/or non-structural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures or property that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
land, or improvements utilities and structures.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE) or FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The base
flood elevation plus two feet at any given location.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of any watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved to carry and discharge a base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one-tenth of a foot due to
loss of flood conveyance or storage.
   FOREBAY. A small pond placed in front of a larger retention/detention
structure such as a wet pond, dry pond, or wetland to intercept and concentrate
a majority of sediment that is coming into the system before it reaches the
larger structure.
   GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling, and stockpiling of soil or any
combination thereof and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   GUTTER SPREAD. The spread of water on a roadway surface perpendicular from
the face of the gutter into the driving lane.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any method or means for conveying an illicit discharge
into water bodies or the town’s stormwater conveyance system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to water bodies that does not consist
entirely of stormwater, discharges pursuant to the terms of an NPDES permit, or
exempted discharges as defined in this chapter.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that prevents or significantly reduces the
ability of stormwater to readily infiltrate into the underlying natural soil
such as asphalt, concrete, roofs, and gravel.
   LAND ALTERATION.
      (1)   Any action taken relative to land which either:
         (a)   Removes the natural ground cover; or
         (b)   Changes the contour; or
         (c)   Increases the runoff rate; or
         (d)   Changes the elevation; or
         (e)   Decreases the rate at which water is absorbed; or
         (f)   Changes the drainage pattern; or
         (g)   Creates or changes a drainage facility; or
         (h)   Involves construction, enlargement, or location of any building
on a permanent foundation; or
         (i)   Creates an impoundment.
      (2)   LAND ALTERATION includes (by way of example and not of limitation)
terracing, grading, excavating, constructing earthwork, draining, installing
drainage tile, filling, and paving.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any manmade change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil, excavating,
filling, transporting, and grading.
   LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed to practice land surveying in the State of
Indiana.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased, or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land must be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor or the lowest enclosed area (including a
basement), but not including an unfinished or flood-proof enclosure that is
usable solely for parking of vehicles or building access.
   MAINTENANCE. Cleaning, removing obstructions from and malting minor repairs
to a drainage facility so that it will perform the function for which it was
designed and constructed.
   MANUFACTURED BMP. A structural BMP designed for stormwater quality treatment
constructed of a combination of manmade materials at an off-site facility.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal of oil, gas, coal, ore, gravel, sand,
aggregate or other resources from below the surface of the land.
   MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of conveyances,
including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains, which is:
      (1)   Owned or operated by a federal, state, city, town, county,
district, association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to state
law) having jurisdiction over stormwater, including special districts under
state law such as a sewer district, flood control district, or drainage
district, or similar entity, or a designated and approved management agency
under Section 208 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1288) that discharges into
waters of the state; or privately owned stormwater utility, hospital,
university, or college having jurisdiction over stormwater that discharges into
waters of the state;
      (2)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (3)   Not a combined sewer; and
      (4)   Not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as defined at
40 CFR 122.2.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and including, but not limited
to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal, urban runoff sources, and sources of sediment.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   NON-STRUCTURAL BMP. A BMP that is not constructed by physical means of land
disturbance such as education, public information handouts, and the like.
   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   PEAK STORM. The storm of a specified return period that produces the maximum
runoff from a site or the maximum elevation in a detention pond. Storm
durations of 0.5-, 1-, 2-, 3-, 6-, 12- and 24-hours shall be used to determine
the PEAK STORM.
   PERIMETER DRAIN. A subsurface pipe network designed and installed around the
perimeter of a septic field for the purpose of effectively collecting and
draining away excess subsurface waters.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality, or any other legal entity.
   PIPE SYSTEM. Two or more pipes connected by one or more structures such as a
manhole designed to convey stormwater runoff.
   PLAN. Written narratives, specifications, drawings, sketches, written
standards, operating procedures, or any combination of these, which contain
information pursuant to this chapter.
   POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance,
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding
operation, or vessel or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may
be discharged.
   POLLUTANT. A substance which causes or contributes to pollution which
includes, but is not limited to the following: any dredged spoil, solid waste,
vehicle fluids, yard wastes, animal wastes, agricultural waste products,
sediment, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
chemical wastes, biological wastes, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal,
commercial and agricultural waste, or any other contaminant or other substance
defined as a pollutant under the Clean Water Act.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the quality of
waters by waste to a degree which unreasonably affects, or has the potential to
unreasonably affect, either the waters for beneficial uses or the facilities
which serve these beneficial uses.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to property,
having a contractual interest in property, or any person having or exercising
care, custody, or control over any property.
   PUBLIC WORKS OFFICE (PWO).Public Works Office of the Town of Mooresville.
   RECLAMATION PLAN FOR MINERAL EXTRACTION. A document illustrating drainage
patterns, both existing and proposed, at a mineral extraction site; proposed
erosion control and off-site sedimentation control of the site; and proposed
final land use and post construction stormwater quality BMPs for the site, all
of which are documented at the initial approval of the SWMP and at ten-year
intervals following the approval of a SWMP.
   RECORD DRAWINGS. Drawings prepared, signed, and sealed by a professional
engineer or land surveyor representing the final “as-built” record of the
actual in-place elevations, location of structures, and topography.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL. An engineer, land surveyor or architect license
under the laws of the State of Indiana to practice the respective profession.
   REGULATED DRAIN. A drain, either open channel or closed tile/sewer, subject
to the provisions of the Indiana Drainage Code, I.C. 36-9-27.
   RETENTION. A system that is designed to capture stormwater and contain it
until it infiltrates into the soil or evaporates.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, pedestrian-way, hiking path, biking path, crosswalk, railroad, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer
main, special landscaping, drainage, or for another special use. The usage of
the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-
of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included
within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended
for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, screening
or special landscaping, or any other use involving maintenance by the town
shall be dedicated to public use by the subdivider on whose plat such right-of-
way is established. All divisions of land along existing roadways shall
dedicate half right-of-way for public purposes along its entire frontage in the
amount as specified for the classification of the existing roadway,
   ROADWAY DRAINAGE. The runoff and drainage located within 20 feet of the edge
of public and/or private roadways adjacent to, abutting, or within the
boundaries of the property to be addressed in a proposed stormwater management
submittal.
   RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of the soils of
that basin.
   SOIL EROSION. The stripping of soil and weathered rock from land creating
sediment for transportation by water, wind, or ice, and enabling formation of
new sedimentary deposits.
   STORM DRAIN. A system of open or enclosed conduits and appurtenant
structures intended to convey or manage stormwater runoff, ground water and
drainage.
   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. Publicly owned facilities operated by the town by which
stormwater is collect and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads
with drainage systems, streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains,
pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-ma de or
altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures which are
within the town and are not part of a publicly owned treatment works as defined
at 40 CFR Section 122.2.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from rainstorm events.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP). An engineered drainage plan that
effectively addresses and manages stormwater runoff and discharge.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN APPROVAL (SWMPA). An approval issued pursuant to
this chapter from the town that states all requirements of this chapter have
been met.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan developed to minimize
the impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality within a municipal separate storm sewer
system area.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The runoff and drainage of precipitation resulting from
rainfall or snowmelt or other natural event or process.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF FACILITY. The method, structure, area, system, or other
equipment or measures that are designed to receive, control, store, or convey
stormwater.
   STREAM. A river, stream, or creek which may or may not be serving as a
drain, or any other waterbody that has definite banks, a bed, and visible
evidence of a continued flow or continued occurrence of water.
   STRUCTURAL BMP. A structure designed and constructed for the purpose of
stormwater quality treatment stormwater management, and flood control.
   SWALE. A depressed earthen designed to convey stormwater runoff with side
slopes 5:1 or shallower and conveying no more than ten cubic feet per second.
   USEPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   WATERBODY. A river, lake, stream, creek, or other watercourse or wetlands.
   WATERSHED. A region draining into a waterbody.
   WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated conditions.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.10 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN APPROVALS.
   (A)   Any person or landowner who develops or engages in development
activities on land or a development site with land disturbance greater than or
equal to 10,000 square feet and subject to the provisions of this chapter must
first obtain a stormwater management plan approval (SWMPA) from the town. A
permit is obtained by first submitting a stormwater management plan (SWMP) to
the PWO, which shall include the following:
      (1)   Complete set of plans including a title page with location and
vicinity maps, existing and proposed condition plan sheets, construction
details and erosion control plans all sealed by a registered professional. A
plan and profile of the proposed drainage system shall be provided. Individual
sheets shall be required for existing topography, proposed topography, erosion
control, plan and profiles, and details. All sheets shall be submitted
digitally.
      (2)   Mineral extraction operations seeking a SWMPA shall submit the
following additional materials with their proposed stormwater management plan
(SWMP); a certified survey showing the number and proximity of residents within
the adjoining area (per 312 IAC 2-3-2); a copy of the approved driveway permit
with all transportation and drainage easements and right-of- ways granted by
the applicant along public ways and waterways; and a reclamation plan, Any
changes in a plan approved by the PWO must be submitted to the PWO and re-
approved as a revision. Additional hourly review fees will be applicable to
this revision review.
      (3)   A drainage narrative describing the existing and proposed
conditions and runoff patterns and complete documentation of all calculations
and assumptions. This narrative shall be sealed by a registered professional
engineer or licensed surveyor.
      (4)   For projects over one acre of land disturbance, a draft IDEM notice
of intent (NOI) is required so that the town can obtain project information
during review, prior to town approval and subsequent submittal of the NOT to
IDEM.
      (5)   All SWMP submittals must meet the requirements of this chapter and
the provisions of the Stormwater Design Manual. A written narrative is required
with the submittal stating that the drainage plans comply with the provisions
of this chapter and the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual.
   (B)   The town may require such additional information to be included in a
drainage plan that is necessary to evaluate and determine the adequacy of the
proposed drainage and water quality facilities.
   (C)   Once the town determines that all requirements of this chapter are
met, a formal notice of approval (SWMPA) shall be issued by the PWO.
   (D)   Any construction project holding a. SWMPA, determined to be
inconsistent with plans previously approved by the PWO may be subject to the §
54.17. Any changes in a set of SWMP approved by the PWO must be submitted to
the PWO and re-approved as a revision. Additional hourly review fees will be
applicable to this revision review,
   (E)   Final inspection. The PWO, or a designated representative, shall
inspect the construction site to verify the requirements for a notice of
termination (NOT) have been met. These requirements include stabilization of
the site, removal of temporary BMPs, completion of land disturbance within the
permitted boundaries, and cleanout of sediment and other pollutants from post
construction BMPs. A completed copy of the inspection form confirming
compliance with project termination requirements is required to be sent by the
applicant to IDEM along with the NOT. The NOT shall also be submitted to the
PWO.
   (F)   As-builts. As-built drawings shall be completed within 30 days after
the completion of the project and submitted to the PWO. Electronic record
drawings shall include a pdf file of the plans completed by a professional
engineer or land surveyor with changes made during construction shall be marked
on the as-builts in a contrasting color in order to easily see the revisions.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.11 DETENTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Detention shall be required for SWMPA for all proposed projects that
disturb 10,000 square feet or more acre of land. In addition, detention may be
required for any development in areas where downstream flooding has been
identified by the town.
   (B)   The following projects may complete a Runoff Curve Number Worksheet
per the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual, Upon PWO approval, detention
requirements for the project shall be waived:
      (1)   Land-disturbing activities where there will be no additional
impervious surfaces associated with the final completed project.
      (2)   Single-family residential strip development offered for sale or
lease without land improvements and the project is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale.
      (3)   Individual residential building lots within a permitted project
site.
      (4)   Residential developments consisting of four or fewer lot
developments where the proposed impervious surfaces are 10% or less of the
project acreage. Impervious is determined by the sum of all infrastructure
(roads, paths, parking, and the like) and the average projects hard surfaces
associated with all building lots within the project.
      (5)   Single-family residences and private ponds that are not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale.
   (B)   Pre- and post-developed runoff rates shall be determined using
methodologies specified in the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual.
   (C)   The following requirements shall be fulfilled for all detention
facilities:
      (1)   The runoff from the developed condition peak storm with a 100-year
return period storm shall be limited to the runoff rate from the pre-developed
condition peak storm with a ten-year return period storm.
      (2)   The runoff from the developed condition peak storm with a ten-year
return period storm shall be limited to the runoff rate from the pre-developed
condition peak storm with a two-year return period storm.
      (3)   There shall be no increase in the runoff rate from the pre-
developed conditions to the post-developed conditions for all storms at all
discharge points along the property line.
      (4)   An adequate downstream receiving facility shall be identified on
the plans and evaluated in the drainage report. There shall be no increase in
erosion potential on the adjoining properties. Earthen embankments, dams, and/
or berms designed and constructed to detain or impound stormwater shall be
designed using criteria specified in the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.12 CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Conveyance structures (outfalls, pipes, swales, ditches, culverts, and the
like) shall be designed in accordance with the Mooresville Stormwater Design
Manual to fulfill the following requirements:
   (A)   Outfalls. All proposed pipe outfalls shall have an adequate receiving
facility identified on the plans. There shall be no increase in erosion and
sedimentation on adjoining properties.
   (B)   Lift stations. Lift stations shall not be designed as part of a
stormwater conveyance system. Proposed stormwater lift stations will only be
reviewed if complete documentation of no other reasonable option is provided.
Stormwater lift stations will be approved on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Swales. Swales shall be designed to accommodate the ten-year peak
runoff within the proposed banks and the 100-year peak runoff within the
drainage easement.
   (D)   Ditches. Proposed ditches shall accommodate the 100-year runoff within
the banks or a designated easement.
   (E)   Perimeter drain collection. All residential development regulated by
this chapter shall indicate on their plans an appropriately sized, common
collection swale, ditch or subsurface pipe structure that provides a positive
discharge, collects and effectively conveys perimeter drain discharge to an
appropriate offsite outlet.
   (F)   Pipe systems, inlets, culverts, swales, and ditches shall be designed
according to the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.13 EMERGENCY ACCESS EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Emergency access easements shall be provided to the PWO as follows:
   (A)   Detention structures. Detention structures serving drainage basins
greater than 10,000 square feet or receiving runoff from off-site or being
dedicated to the town shall have an emergency access easement around the 100-
year flood elevation. This emergency access easement shall include all release
control devices. The minimum emergency access easement requirements for
detention structures shall be designated in the Mooresville Stormwater Design
Manual.
   (B)   Conveyance systems.
      (1)   An emergency access easement shall be provided for all conveyance
systems that:
         (a)   Will be accepted by the town and/or be located adjacent to
public or private roads or ways; or
         (b)   Lead to public conveyance systems located adjacent to public or
private roads or ways; or
         (c)   Are maintained by a homeowner’s association; or
         (d)   Receive off-site runoff.
      (2)   The minimum emergency access easement requirements for conveyance
systems shall be designated in the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual.
      (3)   The owner of the property shall be responsible for maintenance of
the property’s drainage facilities. The granting of an emergency access to the
town does not alter the property owner’s duty to maintain the property’s
drainage facilities.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.14 FLOOD CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property in the town are
subjected to flooding. To help minimize the occurrence and impact of flooding
resulting in the loss of life and/or property, the following are required:
      (1)   FEMA studied waterways.
         (a)   FEMA floodway/floodplain delineation. All plans submitted shall
have the floodway (FW) and floodplain (FP) delineated on the grading plan(s) as
scaled from the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps. A reference to the panel number
and date of the map shall also be included. Where no FW is delineated, the
entire floodplain shall be assumed to be the FW.
         (b)   One hundred-year base flood elevation (BFE). The 100-year BEE
shall be noted on the grading plan(s), This BFE shall be determined using the
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the appropriate plate. A note referencing the
plate number and date shall be included on the plans.
      (2)   Non-FEMA studied waterways (greater than one square mile drainage
basin); DNR floodway/floodplain delineation. All plans shall have the FW and FP
delineated as determined by the DNR. A note referencing the DNR determination
and a copy of the DNR response letter shall be provided prior to approval by
the PWO.
      (3)   Basins less than one square mile in area; floodplain delineation.
All waterways with drainage basins less than one square mile and greater than
25 acres shall have the 100-year BFE determined by methods outlined in the
Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual and delineated on the plans. Complete
documentation of this determination shall be included with the submission.
   (B)   No structures shall be located in a FEMA or DNR designated floodway.
No structures shall be located within the floodplain of drainage basins less
than one square mile unless a floodway determination is conducted.
   (C)   The lowest finished floor of all structures located within a
floodplain shall have a two feet flood protection grade (FPG) with respect to
the lowest floor of the structure.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.15 WATER QUALITY.
   (A)   For new development areas that disturb 10,000 square feet or more acre
of land, structural BMPs shall be designed to meet water quality requirements
as detailed in the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual.
   (B)   Water quality BMPs are not required for the following projects:
      (1)   Land-disturbing activities where there will be no additional
impervious surfaces associated with the final completed project.
      (2)   Single-family residential strip development offered for sale or
lease without land improvements and the project is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale.
      (3)   Individual residential building lots within a permitted project
site.
      (4)   Residential developments consisting of four or fewer lot
developments where the proposed impervious surfaces are 10% or less of the
project acreage, Impervious is determined by the sum of all infrastructure
(roads, paths, parking, and the like) and the average projects hard surfaces
associated with all building lots within the project.
      (5)   Single-family residences and private ponds that are not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale.
   (C)   Water quality considerations shall be incorporated in the submitted
SWMPs and specifications in accordance with the Mooresville Stormwater Design
Manual to fulfill the following requirements:
      (1)   Pretreatment requirements. Every stormwater treatment practice
shall have an acceptable form of water quality pretreatment, in accordance with
the pretreatment requirements found in the current Mooresville Stormwater
Design Manual. Stormwater infiltration practices, or practices having an
infiltration component, as specified in the Mooresville Stormwater Design
Manual, are prohibited, even with pretreatment, in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Where stormwater is generated from highly contaminated source
areas as identified by the IDEM, USEPA, or the PWO;
         (b)   Where stormwater is carried in a conveyance system that also
carries contaminated, non-stormwater discharges;
         (c)   Where stormwater is being managed in a designated groundwater
recharge or well head protection area;
         (d)   Under certain geologic conditions (e.g., karat) that prohibit
the proper pretreatment of stormwater.
      (2)   Treatment/geometry conditions. All stormwater management practices
shall be designed to capture and treat stormwater runoff according to the
specifications outlined in the Mooresville Stormwater Design Manual. These
specifications will designate the water quality treatment and water quantity
criteria that apply to an approved stormwater management practice.
      (3)   New retail gasoline outlets and refueling areas or those that
replace their existing tank systems; regardless of size, are required to
install appropriate measures to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic
hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
      (4)   Infiltration practices will not be allowed in wellhead protection
areas as the primary water quality treatment measure, unless the measure is
designed to treat the pollutant(s) of concern that originate in the drainage
area of the measure.
      (5)   Discharges from new development and redevelopment sites will not be
allowed directly into karst features without pre-treatment.
      (6)   Outfalls must be designed to reduce outfall scorning and bank
erosion.
      (7)   Detention ponds require an upstream water quality practice.
Forebays are not permitted.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.16 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   Construction activities required as part of land development necessitate the
removal of natural ground cover, creating the potential for erosion to occur.
To minimize the movement of soil off site and its impact on water quality and
on the ability of stormwater facilities to continue functioning properly, the
following are required:
   (A)   All persons who cause, in whole or in part, any earth change to occur
shall provide soil erosion and sedimentation control so as to adequately reduce
the potential for soil to be eroded and discharged or deposited onto adjacent
properties or into a stormwater drainage system, a public street or right-of-
way, wetland, creek, stream, waterbody, or floodplain.
   (B)   All development shall be in accordance with all applicable federal,
state and local ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (C)   Prior to making any earth change on a development site regulated by
this chapter, the developer shall first obtain SWMPA. The developer shall
install stormwater runoff facilities and shall phase the development activities
so as to reduce the potential for polluted construction site stormwater runoff
and off-site sedimentation.
   (D)   Projects requiring SWMPA shall refer to the Mooresville Stormwater
Design Manual for requirements.
   (E)   If the owner or operator is required to prepare a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as required by the CSGP, such plan shall be deemed to
fulfill the soil erosion and sedimentation control requirements of this
section. In this case, all applicable state and federal permits or notices for
land disturbing activities shall be obtained or filed prior to commencement of
land disturbing activities. All applicable state or federal standards shall be
adhered to when conducting land disturbing activities. Copies of all
applications, notice of intent submittals, plans and other erosion and sediment
control related information developed for and/or submitted to state or federal
authorities shall be copied to the town in addition to the SWPPP. In addition,
the following shall be posted at the project site: a copy of the NOI, the NPDES
permit number(s), and the location of the SWPPP.
   (F)   During all construction activities on the development site, the town
or their designated representative may inspect the development site to ensure
compliance with the approved construction site runoff controls.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the case of non-compliance with this chapter or the Stormwater Design
Manual, the PWO has the right to issue abatement orders, stop work orders,
injunctions, and/or revoke SWMPA.
   (A)   If the applicant commences work for which the SWMPA is required
without compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the review fee shall be
increased to $500. If work for which the SWMPA is required is completed or
substantially completed by the applicant without compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, the review fee shall be increased to $2,500.
   (B)   The PWO may revoke a SWMPA where the submittal packet, plans, and/or
other supporting documents reflect either:
      (1)   A false statement or misrepresentation as to material fact; or
      (2)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this manual.
   (C)   Whenever the PWO discovers the existence of any of the circumstances
listed below, they are empowered to issue an order requiring the suspension of
the land alteration. The stop-work order shall be in writing and shall state to
what land alteration it is applicable and the reason for its issuance. One copy
of the stop-work order shall be posted on the property in a conspicuous place
and one copy shall be delivered to the applicant, and if conveniently possible
to the person doing the land alteration and to the owner of the property or his
or her agent. The stop work order shall state the conditions under which land
alteration may be resumed. A stop-work order shall be issued if:
      (1)   Land alteration is occurring in violation of a drainage requirement
and in such manner that if land alteration is allowed to proceed, there is a
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
or
      (2)   Land alteration has been accomplished hi violation of a drainage
requirement and 15 calendar days has elapsed since written notice of the
violation or noncompliance was either posted on the property in a conspicuous
place or given to the person doing the land alteration, without the violation
or noncompliance being corrected; or
      (3)   Land alteration for which a SWMPA is required is proceeding without
a SWMPA being in force. In such an instance the stop-work order shall indicate
that the effect of the order terminates when the required SWMPA is obtained.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.18 FACILITY MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer/owners to maintain all
detention/retention facilities and drainage easements on their property. If
there is more than one lot or holding served by the facility this shall be
documented on the property deeds and recorded on the plat unless responsibility
is formally accepted by a public body. This shall be determined prior to final
drainage plan approval.
   (B)   Failure of the developer/owner to maintain such easements or
facilities as approved in the original plan shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 56.19 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect, dump, or otherwise
discharge any substance or item not directly related to stormwater in to any
part of the storm drain system without written permission from the appropriate
agency.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Cause or allow an illicit discharge to the storm drain system or
any component thereof, or onto driveways, sidewalks, parking lots sinkholes,
creek banks, or other areas that may drain to the storm drain system;
      (2)   Connect, or allow to be connected any sanitary sewer to the storm
drain system, including any sanitary sewer or septic system connected as of
July 2, 2024.
      (3)   Connect, or allow to be connected any stormwater system to a
sanitary sewer without the written permission of the owner.
      (4)   No person shall dump, deposit, release, leak, pump, pour, emit,
empty, discharge, inject, bury, or dispose of any oil, anti-freeze, herbicide,
pesticide, fungicide, animal or human excrement or any other solid, liquid, or
hazardous waste to any part of the storm drain system or on any public or
private premises in the town.
      (5)   No person shall dispose of any leaves, brush, sticks, dirt,
landscape debris, or other yard waste to any part of the storm drain system.
This would include the blowing of grass, leaves, or other yard waste by mower
or any other means into any part of the storm drain system.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 7-2-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Weight restrictions
   
70.02   Open alcoholic beverage containers in motor vehicles
   
70.03   Operation and route of public passenger buses
   
70.04   Driving over fire hose
   
70.05   Truck restrictions
   
70.06   Road blocks
   
70.07   Right-hand turns
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General. The town may enact ordinances restricting the use of the town
streets, alleys and rights-of-way concerning the weight of vehicles that may
travel on the town’s streets, alleys and rights-of-way. The provisions of this
section shall apply to all streets, alleys and rights-of-way owned by the town
within the town.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DECLARED WEIGHT. The declared weight as shown on the license plate of the
vehicle or the weight shown on the vehicle’s registration or attached to the
vehicle, or at the discretion of the town’s Police Department as established by
weighing or any other accurate documentation.
      DELIVERY. The transporting of some freight, material or commercial
product by a vehicle to a specific location or the pick up of freight or
materials for commercial purposes at a specific location.
      HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of state-owned ways
which are part of the state system of ways through the town open for vehicular
traffic. This shall include portions of State Roads 42, 267, 67 and 144.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any property owned by the town or the state adjoining any
street, alley or highway.
      STREET or ALLEY. The entire width between boundary lines (meaning the
actual area owned by the town) of every way dedicated, platted or owned by the
town when any part of the way is opened to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular traffic. The term includes an ALLEY.
      TOWN. The municipal corporation known as the Town of Mooresville,
Indiana.
      VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided herein, a device in, upon or by
which a person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a street.
VEHICLE, for purposes of this section, does not include a fire truck or
apparatus owned by or leased to the town.
   (C)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this section for any person,
firm or corporation to operate or allow to be operated a vehicle over 16,000
pounds on a town street unless:
      (1)   Said vehicle is transporting freight or material to or from a
business site within the town and is using the shortest possible route upon the
town streets from the point of entry and shall then leave the town right-of-way
at the nearest available point of exit; and
      (2)   Said freight-carrying vehicle is making a delivery of material or
supplies, including construction equipment, to a site within the town, and said
vehicle must travel the shortest possible route upon the town streets from the
point of entry and shall then leave the town right-of-way at the nearest
available point of exit.
(Ord. 12, 2005, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. An alcoholic beverage as defined in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
      CONTAINER. An alcoholic beverage container as defined in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13
and includes such containers from which the contents have been removed.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-105(a).
   (B)   Consumption by operator or passenger prohibited. It is unlawful for
the operator or passenger of a motor vehicle to consume an alcoholic beverage
or have within the operator’s or passenger’s reach a container that has been
opened, that has a broken seal or from which some of the contents have been
removed at any time the motor vehicle is being operated upon a public highway,
street or alley within the confines of the town.
   (C)   Operation prohibited. It is unlawful for an operator or passenger of a
motor vehicle being operated upon a public highway, street or alley within the
confines of the town to knowingly keep or allow to be kept in any area of the
motor vehicle a container that has been opened, that has a broken seal or from
which some of the contents have been removed.
   (D)   Exceptions. The following exceptions to this section are adopted.
      (1)   Open containers may be transported in a motor vehicle trunk, or if
there is no trunk, in a closed box, bag or container, placed farthest to the
back of the motor vehicle where the open containers are inaccessible to the
operator or passengers of the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Licensed caterers may transport open containers in a motor vehicle
as long as no human consumption occurs during transportation to and from the
destination of the licensed caterer.
      (3)   Commercial vehicles such as limousines and charter buses that are
licensed to operate as commercial vehicles under the law of the state or the
United States are exempt from the provisions of this section pertaining to
consumption or possession by passengers.
   (E)   Enforcement. Any law enforcement officer may issue an ordinance
violation citation to a person who violates this section, citing that person to
appear in the Town Court or any court of proper jurisdiction.
   (F)   Compliance. This section shall be in full force and effect upon
adoption and compliance with I.C. 36-3-4-14.
(Ord. 23 1992, passed 10-20-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OPERATION AND ROUTE OF PUBLIC PASSENGER BUSES.
   (A)   By reason of the congestion of certain of the public streets and in
order to afford safety to pedestrians, vehicles and passengers upon public
passenger buses, and to promote the public safety and to assure a free flow of
traffic upon the streets of said town, all public passenger buses shall be
required to operate the same in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any other vehicle to park in a space or zone
marked as a bus stop.
   (C)   All public passenger buses operating within the town and receiving and
discharging passengers for hire shall be so operated upon said public streets
as to at all times when receiving or discharging passenger from a bus stop
approach the same in a general direction from south to north and to cause said
vehicle to stop within the space so designated parallel and adjacent to the
west curb line of Indiana Street.
   (D)   When more than one public passenger bus shall approach said bus stop
at approximately the same time, said vehicles shall be operated in such a
manner that second or subsequent vehicles shall follow immediately to the rear
of the first vehicle.
(Ord. 5, 1951, passed 10-3-1951) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person, firm or corporation
to drive, run and operate any motor vehicle, automobile, buggy, wagon or other
vehicles over, on or upon and fire hose belonging to or being used by the town.
(Ord. 8-6-35, passed 8-15-1935) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all streets and the use thereof within the
corporate limits of the town, except any and all designated state highways
located within said corporate limits.
   (B)   No semi-truck shall be on said streets except for the purpose of
making deliveries or pickups.
   (C)   No truck having a capacity of one ton or more, or having a width of
more than 80 inches, shall be parked on or within ten feet from the side of any
of said streets.
   (D)   The use of any street in violation of this section is declared to be a
common nuisance.
(Ord. 1, 1968, passed 2-6-1968) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 ROAD BLOCKS.
   (A)   There shall be only one road block per year granted to any
organization. For the purpose of this section, ORGANIZATION shall be defined to
include any branch of a parent organization, group, club or school activity.
   (B)   All road blocks shall occur between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00
p.m. only.
   (C)   All road blocks shall be conducted at one or both of the following two
intersections and no other location:
      (1)   Carlisle and North Indiana Streets; and
      (2)   Monroe and Main Street.
(Res. passed - -)
§ 70.07 RIGHT-HAND TURNS.
   (A)   Missing material.
   (B)   The Town Marshal, or any other person designated by the Town Council
shall post or cause to be posted appropriate signs at said intersection for
vehicular traffic moving in a northerly or southerly direction on Indiana
Street, setting forth the right of such motor vehicle traffic to turn right
under said conditions when, in fact, said motor vehicle traffic is facing a
steady red signal at the traffic control signal at said intersection.
(Ord. 1, 1974, passed 1-22-1974)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, business, corporation or other legal entity violating any
of the provisions of §
70.01 of this code shall be subject to a civil fine in an amount not to exceed
$500 per violation. In addition, a violator that damages the town’s property
shall be subject to a civil enforcement for all damages which are directly
attributable to the violation, along with attorneys’ fees and all other costs
of enforcement of this action. Enforcement shall be by the town’s Police
Department with all actions filed in the Town Court as violations of §
70.01 of this code, cited on the uniform traffic citation, however, civil
enforcement actions for damages shall be in the Circuit or Superior Courts of
the county. The Police Department shall also have the right to have any vehicle
towed and placed in storage at the owner’s expense for a violation where a
vehicle is parked in excess of the commercial purpose on a town street, alley
or right-of-way. The minimum fine shall be $100 and shall be applicable to any
vehicle with a declared weight of 16,000 pounds or greater. For each increment
of 1,000 pounds over and above 16,000 pounds, the fine shall increase $100 with
a maximum of $500.
   (C)   Any person who is found to have violated §
70.02 of this code shall be fined in an amount of not less than $5 nor more
than $500 as a civil penalty, per violation. The first violation by a person in
any calendar year shall be subject to admission of violation and payment of the
designated civil penalty through the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
70.04 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be fined not less than $1 not more than $10 for each and every offense.
   (E)   The owner or driver of any truck found to be in violation of §
70.05 of this code shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20 for each
offense, and each day’s continuance of such offense shall constitute a separate
and additional offense.
   (F)   A violation of §
70.07 of this code is a misdemeanor punishable by fines or not less than $1 or
more than $25.
(Ord. 8-6-35, passed 8-15-1935; Ord. 1, 1968, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 1, 1974,
passed 1-22-1974; Ord. 23 1992, passed 10-20-1992; Ord. 12, 2005, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking; generally
   
71.02   Specific parking regulations; parking tickets
   
71.03   Parking of nuisance vehicles prohibited
   
71.04   Creating handicapped parking areas
   
71.05   Parking during street cleaning
   
71.06   Motor vehicles obstructing the flow of traffic
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this section shall apply to all streets,
alleys and rights-of-way located within the town.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DECLARED WEIGHT. The declared weight as shown on the license plate of the
vehicle or the weight shown on the vehicle’s registration or attached to the
vehicle or at the discretion of the Police Department as established by
weighing or any other accurate documentation.
      DELIVERY. The transporting of some commercial product by a vehicle to a
specific location and shall include a pick up of an item for commercial
purposes at a specific location.
      HEIGHT. The height of a vehicle as measured from its highest projection
on the top of the vehicle to the ground, excluding antennas.
      HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of state-owned ways
which are part of the state system of ways through the town open for vehicular
traffic.
      LENGTH. The length of a vehicle as measured from the furthest most
projection of the vehicle in the front to the furthest most projection of the
vehicle to its rear.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any property owned by the town adjoining any street or
alley.
      STREET or ALLEY. The entire width between boundary lines (meaning the
actual area owned by the town) of every way dedicated, platted or owned by the
town when any part of the way is opened to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular traffic. This term includes an ALLEY.
      TOWN. The municipal corporation known as the Town of Mooresville,
Indiana.
      VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided herein, a device in, upon or by
which a person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a street.
VEHICLE, for purposes of this section, does not include a fire truck or
apparatus owned by the town.
      WIDTH. The distance from the widest portion of the vehicle, measured from
side-to-side, excluding the mirrors.
   (C)   Vehicle capacity.
      (1)   No vehicle having a capacity of 11,000 pounds or greater shall be
parked on any street, alley or right-of-way. No vehicle with a length of 25
feet or greater, or with a width of 82 inches or greater, or a height of seven
feet or higher shall be parked on any town street, alley or right-of-way. A
violation of any one of the above specifications (the weight portion of this
section, the length portion of this section, the width portion of this section
or the height portion of this section) shall be considered a violation.
      (2)   An exception to this section would be commercial vehicles making
deliveries in the due course of business only.
   (D)   Vehicle obstructions. No person shall dismantle, repair, restore or
otherwise perform any work on any vehicle, machine, transportation device,
motor or any other piece of equipment on any street, alley or right-of-way.
   (E)   Curbs.
      (1)   Except where angle parking is permitted by ordinance, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a roadway or street in the town where there is an
adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb.
      (2)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway or street in the
town where there is no adjacent curb shall be so stopped or parked with the
right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel with and within 12 inches of the
outside edge of the right-hand berm.
   (F)   Enforcement. The law enforcement officers of the town are authorized
to have any vehicle parked contrary to the provisions of this section towed and
removed off of the public streets of the town. The owner and/or operator of
said vehicle shall be liable to the person or persons so towing and removing
said vehicle for the reasonable value of such services.
(Ord. 5, 1965, passed 5-4-1965; Ord. 5, 2003, passed 7-15-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SPECIFIC PARKING REGULATIONS; PARKING TICKETS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   This section does not apply to a person who drives a vehicle that
is disabled while on the paved, improved or main travel part of the highway in
a manner and to the extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle on the highway.
      (2)   A person may not stop, park or leave standing an attended or
unattended vehicle upon the paved or main travel part of the highway outside of
a business or residence district, if it is practical to stop, park or leave the
vehicle off the highway.
   (B)   Unobstructed passage of vehicles in clear view of stopped vehicle. A
person who stops, parks or leaves a vehicle shall leave a sufficient
unobstructed width of the roadway opposite the vehicle for the free passage of
other vehicles and a clear view of the stopped vehicle from a distance of 200
feet in each direction from the highway.
   (C)   Removal of vehicle from travel portion of highway. Whenever a police
officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of this section,
the officer may require the person driving the vehicle or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle to a position off the paved, improved
or main travel part of the highway. If a person directed by a police officer
fails or refuses to move the vehicle, or the vehicle is unattended, the officer
may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest available garage or
other place of safety.
   (D)   Obstruction of a bridge; removal of vehicle. Whenever a police officer
finds a vehicle unattended upon a bridge which constitutes an obstruction of
traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
available garage or other place of safety.
   (E)   Avoiding conflict with traffic or law enforcement officers; direction
of police officers or traffic control devices. A person may not stop, stand or
park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
to avoid conflict with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station and, on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to a fire station, within 75 feet of
the entrance (when properly sign posted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction if
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of a vehicle stopped or parked on the edge or
curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon a bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel; and
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (F)   Stopping or parking in fire lane.
      (1)   This division (F) applies to a fire lane that is located on
property that is privately- or publicly-owned.
      (2)   A person may not stop, stand or park a vehicle in a fire lane.
      (3)   This section may be enforced by any of the following law
enforcement officers:
         (a)   A state police officer;
         (b)   A town police officer; or
         (c)   A Sheriff.
   (G)   Movement of vehicle by nonowner. A person may not move a vehicle not
owned by the person into a prohibited area or away from a curb to a distance
that is unlawful.
   (H)   Parallel parking; roadways with adjacent curbs; regulations. Except
where angle parking is permitted by a local ordinance for streets under the
control of the town, a vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb.
   (I)   Signs prohibiting or restricting stopping, standing or parking;
posting. The town may, with respect to rights-of-way under the town’s
jurisdiction, place signs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles on a street, alley or highway where an engineering
investigation has revealed the need for a restriction. The signs must be
official signs. A person may not stop, stand or park a vehicle in violation of
the restrictions stated on the signs.
   (J)   State code incorporated. This section incorporates by reference all
sections of I.C. 9-30-11-1 through 8 and all amendments thereto.
(Ord. 5, 1997, passed 4-15-1997) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING OF NUISANCE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The practice of parking vehicles loaded with debris, garbage, waste,
trash and any and all objectionable, odorous, unsanitary or unhealthy
substances or materials within the town or upon the streets and alleys thereof,
except while in the process of loading or unloading the same is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Such practice as described in division (A) above shall cease within
the town and shall not be permitted.
   (C)   The Police Department of the town is directed and required to suppress
and abate such nuisance as described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2 1948, passed 9-7-1948) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 CREATING HANDICAPPED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall have the authority to establish
handicapped parking areas within the town and to mark said handicapped parking
spots by sign or other means which openly display that said area is a
handicapped parking space.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in a handicapped parking space which is
designated by the Street Commissioner and marked unless the individual is
driving a vehicle which does have the designated handicapped license plate
displayed on the license plate.
(Ord. 14-1989, passed 8-15-1989) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING DURING STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   No parking when signs are posted or other notification of street
cleaning is made. It shall be unlawful for any person to park, stand or fail to
remove a vehicle of any kind parked along any street, alley or highway when
notification of intent to clean such street is made.
   (B)   Time of notification. At least 48 hours shall elapse between the time
of notification and the actual street cleaning, with the exception of those
areas where signs are posted on a permanent basis, which shall include Main
Street from its intersection with Monroe Street on the west side of town, east
to the railroad tracks, and Indiana Street from State Road 67 north to Carlisle
Street with no parking on these portions of Main Street on Monday morning from
4:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. (except holidays). This section of Indiana and Main
Streets shall be posted and no further notice shall be required to any party
prior to them being subject to the tow-in provisions of division (D) below.
   (C)   Method of cleaning. Streets in residential areas shall be cleaned in
an approved manner to allay any dust and to keep the operation as noiseless as
possible. Streets may be cleaned on alternate sides on alternate days or in any
manner which is deemed efficient by the town’s Street Department.
   (D)   Towing cars away. The Street Commissioner of the town’s Street
Department or the town’s Police Department, pursuant to direction by the Street
Commissioner, may cause cars to be towed away which are parked on the streets
to be cleaned after proper notification is given as provided in division (B)
above. Any car towed away may be reclaimed after paying the towing fee and
storage fee.
   (E)   Enforcement. The Street Commissioner of the town shall have the
authority to have signs posted and also to have the permanent notices posted on
Indiana Street and Main Street providing no parking on Monday from 4:00 a.m.
through 6:00 a.m. from Monroe Street to the railroad tracks on Main Street and
from State Road 67 to Carlisle Street on Indiana Street (except holidays).
(Ord. 11, 2015, passed 11-17-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 MOTOR VEHICLES OBSTRUCTING THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   For the control of the flow of traffic, the Town Marshal or any Deputy
Marshal of the Police Department are hereby authorized to cite such motor
vehicle for such illegal parking and are further authorized to remove and tow
away, or have removed and towed away by a commercial towing service, any such
motor vehicle parked in any such metered area where the meter indicates that
the motors vehicle has remained in such metered area for a period longer than
permitted and are hereby authorized to move and tow away, or have removed and
towed away by a commercial towing service any motor vehicle parked in violation
of any posted sign.
   (B)   Missing material.
(Ord. 2, 1973, passed - -)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, business, corporation or other legal entity violating any
of the provisions of §
71.01(C) and (D) of this code shall be subject to a civil fine in an amount not
to exceed $500 per violation. Enforcement shall be by the town’s Police
Department with all actions filed in the Town Court as a violation cited on a
uniform traffic citation. The town’s Police Department shall also have the
right to have any vehicle towed and placed in storage at the owner’s expense
for violation. In addition, any vehicle that continues to violate the terms of
§
71.01(C) and (D) of this code for a period in excess of 24 hours from receipt
of the initial violation shall be deemed to have committed a separate offense
which can be enforced by a separate citation along with having the vehicle
towed and placed in storage at the expense of the owner. The amount of the fine
shall be at the discretion of the Town Court Judge based upon the nature of the
violation, prior violations and the seriousness of the offense based on safety
issues and damage to town property.
   (C)   For each violation of §
71.01(E) of this code, such violator shall be fined not less than $3 and not
more than $10.
   (D)   A person who violates §
71.02 of this code shall be cited into the Town Court with the option of pre-
paying the ticket if it is marked with a fine amount on the citation issued by
the law enforcement agency. Violations shall result in a fine of not less than
$5 for the first offense and up to $50 for each offense thereafter within a 12-
month period.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall commit acts defined in §
71.03 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Such violator shall, upon
conviction, be fined the sum of not less than $10 nor more than $25, together
with the costs of the proceedings.
   (F)   A violation of §
71.04 of this code shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $1 or more
than $25 per violation and in addition a vehicle parked in the spot which does
not have the designated handicapped license plate shall be subject to being
removed by an order from the Town Marshal’s office with the car owner being
responsible for the cost of the vehicle being towed, storage, and any and all
other related costs associated with the removal of said vehicle, along with the
fine set out above.
   (G)   Violations of §
71.05 of this code shall be enforced by a ticketing procedure from the town’s
Police Department, citing violators under a citation (uniform traffic code
citation) into the Town Court, with penalties to be imposed by the Judge of the
Town Court in an amount of not less than $1 nor greater than $100 plus court
costs and any costs associated with the towing and storage of the vehicle.
   (H)   (1)   The provisions of this division (H) shall apply to any town
ordinance now in force or which may hereinafter providing for a penalty for
violation of any of the following:
         (a)   Control and regulate the standing or parking of vehicles upon
any street, alley or other public place within the town;
         (b)   Regulate traffic by means of traffic control signals within the
town;
         (c)   Designate particular streets as one-way streets and-require that
all vehicles move in one specific direction;
         (d)   Regulate the speed of vehicles on the streets, alleys or public
ways within the town;
         (e)   Designate any street as a through street and require that all
vehicles stop before entering or crossing the same; and
         (f)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to such intersection.
      (2)   In lieu of the person violating such ordinance being charged in a
Justice of the Peace Court or Town Court or any other court of competent
jurisdiction for the penalties prescribed, in such ordinance, the Town Marshal
or Town Deputy Marshal charging such persons for any such violation in said
ordinance may notify the person so charged that such person may pay the sum of
$3 within 72 hours of 4:00 p.m. after service of the notice of the violation of
any such ordinance either personally at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town
Hall, or by mailing the same with a post-mark within the same period of time
(within 72 hours of 4:00 p.m. after service of the notice of the violation of
any such ordinance) to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town Hall, in settlement
of penalty.
      (3)   Upon failure of any person charged with the violation of any such
ordinance to pay the $3 to the Clerk-Treasurer as specified in division (F)(2)
above, in settlement of the penalty, the Town Marshal or Town Deputy Marshal
may proceed with the prosecution of the violation of such ordinance in an
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction such as a Justice of the Peace
Court or the Town Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction for the
penalties prescribed in the ordinance.
      (4)   An appropriate “notice of violation” of any ordinance for the
prescribed violations herein set forth in divisions (H)(1) through (H)(6) above
shall be personally given to the person so charged, or attached to the motor
vehicle violating such ordinance, notifying the person so charged of the right
to pay the said $3 penalty to the Town Clerk-Treasurer in lieu of being charged
for such violations in a court of competent jurisdiction, in a Justice of the
Peace Court, or Town Court, or any other court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   All such funds being paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
deposited to the General Fund of the town as by law required.
(Ord. 2 1948, passed 9-7-1948; Ord. 5, 1965, passed 5-4-1965; Ord. 15, 1973,
passed 12-4-1973; Ord. 14-1989, passed 8-15-1989; Ord. 5, 2003, passed 7-15-
2003; Ord. 11, 2015, passed 11-17-2015)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Restricted turn signs
      
III.   One-way streets
      
IV.   Traffic control signs and signals
      
V.   Railroad signals
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   In order to control the flow of traffic in the town, the following
speed limits are established.
 
Street Name             Speed Limit Ord.    Date      Penalty
Memorial Drive          15 mph      3, 1987 4-21-1987 Fine: $0 to $100
Carlisle Street from
State Road 267 to
Indiana Street and then 20 mph      19-1992 8-4-1992  Fine: $0 to $100
to Williams Drive at
times when children are
present
Immediate vicinity of
Newby Elementary School 20 mph      1, 1998 1-6-1998  Fine: $5 to $75 based on
when children are                                     the speed of the vehicle
present
Samuel Moore Parkway
from State Route 67 to  40 mph      6, 2015 - -2015   Fine: $1 to $100
the bridge over White
Lick Creek
Hadley Road             30 mph      7, 2015 - -2015   Fine: $1 to $100
 
   (B)   Any violation of this schedule shall be enforced through the Town
Court, and any person found in violation shall be responsible for court costs
along with fines and all costs associated with enforcement.
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The following restrictions on flow of traffic are established by the
Town Council.
 
Street              Restriction     Ord.    Date Passed Penalty
Main Street
intersecting with   Right turn only 8, 1966 7-19-1966   Fine: Not more than
the second lot east                                     $25
of Indiana Street
Alleyway south of
Main Street         No left turn    1, 1977 1-4-1977    Fine: $1 to $25
entering Indiana
Street
South Indiana       Left-hand turn  5, 1979 4-17-1979   Fine: $1 to $25
Street              lanes
South Street        Left-hand turn  5, 1979 4-17-1979   Fine: $1 to $25
                    lanes
 
   (B)   The town and Street Commissioner shall install signs indicating the
direction of lawful traffic movement and shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic is restricted.
   (C)   Any violation of this schedule shall be enforced through the Town
Court, and any person found in violation shall be responsible for court costs
along with fines and all costs associated with enforcement.
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets and alleys are established as one-way.
Street Direction Ord. Date Passed Penalty
Street                  Direction Ord.     Date Passed Penalty
Alley located between
Main Street and
Washington Street,      East      8, 1966  7-19-1966   Fine: Not more than $25
between Indiana Street
and Clay Street
Alley located between
Main Street and
Washington Street,      West      8, 1966  7-19-1966   Fine: Not more than $25
between Indiana Street
and Jefferson Street
Alley located off West  South     8, 1981  6-2-1981    Fine: $0 to $100
Main Street
First alley east of
Madison between South   South     10-1991  5-7-1991    Fine: $0 to $100
Street and High Street
Lincoln Lane from
Indiana Street to Clay  East      11, 1995 8-21-1995   Fine: $5 to $25
Street
Memorial Drive from
Monroe Street to West   West      2, 1996  3-4-1996    Fine: $5 to $25
Street
Bishop Avenue from
Carlisle Street to St.  North     13, 1999 9-14-1999   Fine: $5 to $25
Claire Street
Alley paralleling South North     3, 2009  - -         -
Indiana Street
 
   (B)   The town and Street Commissioner shall install signs indicating the
direction of lawful traffic movement and shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic is restricted.
   (C)   Any violation of this schedule shall be enforced through the Town
Court, and any person found in violation shall be responsible for court costs
along with fines and all costs associated with enforcement.
SCHEDULE IV. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   In order to control the flow of traffic in the town, the following
traffic control signs and signals are established.
Street Signal Ord. Date Passed Penalty
Street                  Signal            Ord.     Date Passed Penalty
Alley east of Indiana
Street between High     Four-way stop     5, 1988  4-5-1988    Fine: $5 to $100
Street and South Street
Alley connecting North
Jefferson Street with
North Monroe Street
intersecting with the   Four-way stop     8, 1971  5-4-1971    Fine: $1 to $25
alley connecting West
Washington Street and
West Main Street
Alley between Indiana
Street and the Penn     Four-way stop     5, 1988  4-5-1988    Fine: $5 to $100
Central Railroad
Alley connecting West
South Street and West   Four-way stop     3, 1979  3-6-1979    Fine: $1 to $25
High Street
Alleys between South    Four-way stop     5, 1988  4-5-1988    Fine: $5 to $100
Street and High Street
Bishop Street
intersecting Carlisle   Stop sign         12, 1985 11-19-1985  Fine: $1 to $25
Street
Bishop Street
intersecting St. Clair  Stop sign         12, 1985 11-19-1985  Fine: $1 to $25
Street
Bridge Street           Three-way stop    20, 1998 10-6-1998   Fine: $1 to $25
intersecting Maple Lane
Bridge Street           Two-way stop      3, 1972  2-15-1972   Fine: $1 to $25
intersecting Maple Lane
Hadley Road
intersecting Johnson    Four-way stop     7, 2015  - -2015     Fine: $1 to $100
Road
Indianapolis Road
intersecting the        Three-way stop    16-1992  7-7-1992    Fine: $1 to $25
entrance to Pioneer
Park
Monroe Street           Four-way stop     1, 1994  1-4-1994    Fine: $5 to $25
intersecting Harrison
Morning Star Drive
intersecting Church     Four-way stop     4, 1972  3-21-1972   Fine: $1 to $25
Street
North Indiana Street
intersecting Washington Four-way stop     13, 1988 8-16-1988   Fine: $5 to $25
Street
Northfield Drive
intersecting            Three-way stop    14, 1971 8-3-1971    Fine: $1 to $25
Indianapolis Road
Old State Road 67 into  Yield sign        1, 1979  1-2-1979    Fine: $1 to $25
Indianapolis Road
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
Bridge Street
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
Broad Alley
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
Harrison Street
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
Indianapolis Road
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
South Street
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
Taylor Street
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
Washington Street
Railroad crossing at    Stop sign         7, 1976  10-19-1976  -
Wheeler Street
South Indiana Street    Automatic traffic
intersecting South      control signal    13, 1972 9-19-1972   Fine: $1 to $25
Street
South Jefferson Street
intersecting West Broad Two-way stop      3, 1971  3-16-1971   -
Alley
 
   (B)   Any violation of this schedule shall be enforced through the Town
Court, and any person found in violation shall be responsible for court costs
along with fines and all costs associated with enforcement.
SCHEDULE V. RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   The Penn Central Company shall install flasher signals at the following
railroad crossings.
 
Street                                    Ord.     Date Passed Penalty
Old State Highway 67 on Indianapolis Road 17, 1968 11-19-1968  Fine: $100
South Street                              18, 1968 12-17-1968  Fine: $100
Washington Street                         19, 1968 12-17-1968  Fine: $100
 
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
      
II.   Handicap parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   In order to control the flow of traffic in the town, the following
parking restricted zones are established.
Location Restriction Ord. Date Penalty
Location            Restriction          Ord.     Date       Penalty
East side of Center
Drive from North    No parking           7, 1965  7-6-1965   Fine: $3 to $10
Drive to Holiday
Lane
East and north
right-of-way of
Delwood Drive from  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Northfield Drive to
Westwood Drive
East side of
Indianapolis Road   No parking           5 1973   6-19-1973  Fine: $1 to $25
abutting Carlisle
Park
East side of
Morningstar Drive   No parking           7, 1965  7-6-1965   Fine: $3 to $10
from Center Drive
to Church Street
East side of North  No parking from 8:00
Indiana Street      a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on
intersecting East   Friday and 8:00 a.m. 6, 1972  3-21-1972  Fine: $1 to $25
Main Street         to 12:00 a.m. on
                    Saturday
East or west side
of Jefferson
Street, 25 feet     No parking           9, 2001  11-6-2001  Fine: $1 to $25
north or south of
Broad Alley
East and west side  Two-hour parking
of South Indiana    from 9:00 a.m. to 5: 8, 1974  7-2-1974   Fine: $1 to $25
Street intersecting 00 p.m., Monday
Main Street         through Saturday
East and west side
of Carter Street    No parking           3, 2011  6-7-2011   Fine: $25 to $100
north of Morgan
Street
East and west side
of Indianapolis     No parking           25, 1991 12-17-1991 Fine: $1 to $25
Road at the border
of Pioneer Park
East and west sides
of South Indiana    No parking           12, 1973 10-16-1973 Fine: $1 to $25
Street intersecting
Harrison Street
East and west sides Two-hour parking
of North Indiana    from 9:00 a.m. to 5:
Street intersecting 00 p.m., Monday      2, 1975  2-18-1975  Fine: $1 to $25
East and West Main  through Saturday
Street
East side of the
post office on      Five-minute parking  4-1961   2-7-1961   -
North Jefferson
Street
East right-of-way
of Morning Star     No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Drive
East right-of-way
of Edgewood Drive   No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
from Holiday Lane
to Devonwood Drive
East right-of-way   No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Center Lane
East right-of-way   No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Westwood Drive
East right-of-way   No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Nelson Drive
Indiana Street
intersecting
Washington Street
on the east side    No parking           5, 2006  5-2-2006   Fine: $25
through the
intersection at
County Line Road
Madison Street
between High Street No parking           17-1992  7-7-1992   Fine: $1 to $25
and East Main
Street
Main Street from    One-hour parking
Indiana Street to   from 6:00 a.m. to 6:
the first alley     00 p.m., Monday      1946     5- -1946   Fine: $1 to $10
east of Indiana     through Saturday
Street
Memorial Drive west No parking           5 1995   6-19-1995  Fine: $1 to $25
of West Street
North side of Fair
Lane from Edgewood  No parking           3, 1967  5-2-1967   Fine: $3 to $10
Drive to Westbrook
Drive
North side of Main
Street from         No parking           3, 1948  - -1948    Fine: $10
Franklin Street to
Indianapolis Road
North side of       Loading zone from 7:
Memorial Drive from 00 a.m. to 4:00      3, 1967  5-2-1967   Fine: $3 to $10
North Monroe Street p.m., Monday through
for 80 feet         Friday
North curb line of
High Street to the  No parking           6-1962   6-5-1962   -
Pennsylvania
railroad tracks
North and south
right-of-way of     No parking           4, 1983  4-19-1983  Fine: $1 to $25
Carlisle Street
North and south     Two-hour parking
side of West Main   from 9:00 a.m. to 5: 8, 1974  7-2-1974   Fine: $1 to $25
Street intersecting 00 p.m., Monday
Indiana Street      through Saturday
North and south     Two-hour parking
side of East Main   from 9:00 a.m. to 5: 8, 1974  7-2-1974   Fine: $1 to $25
Street intersecting 00 p.m., Monday
Indiana Street      through Saturday
North and south
sides of Memorial   15-minute parking    4, 1982  2-16-1982  Fine: $1 to $25
Drive intersecting  period
Monroe Street
North right-of-way
of West Main Street No parking           9, 1982  5-18-1982  Fine: $0 to $100
in front of the
town library
North right-of-way  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Sunbury Drive
North right-of-way
of St. Clair Drive  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
from Indianapolis
Road to Maple Lane
North right-of-way
of St. Clair Street No parking           7, 1980  4-1-1980   Fine: $5 to $35
intersecting Church
Street
North right-of-way
of Main Street      No parking           4, 1984  3-6-1984   Fine: $1 to $25
intersecting
Jefferson Street
North right-of-way
of Devonwood Drive  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
from Edgewood Drive
to Westbrook Drive
North right-of-way
of Northfield Drive
from Indianapolis   No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Road to Edgewood
Drive
North right-of-way
of Williams Drive   No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
from Indiana Street
to Westbrook Drive
North right-of-way
of Fair Lane Drive
from Westbrook      No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Drive to Edgewood
Drive
North right-of-way  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Sweetwood Drive
North side of West
Washington Street   No parking           7, 1972  3-26-1972  Fine: $1 to $25
intersection North
Indiana Street
Public parking lots No parking from 12:  11, 2011 12-6-2011  Fine: $25
owned by the town   00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Shopping center     Two-hour parking
area                from 9:00 a.m. to 6: 3, 1976  8-17-1976  Fine: $1 to $25
                    00 p.m.
South side of East  15-minute parking
Main Street at 39   during business      13, 1973 10-16-1973 Fine: $1 to $25
East Main Street    hours
South side of
Harrison Street at
the northwest       No parking           16, 1971 12-21-1971 Fine: $1 to $25
corner of Lot 3 in
Block 20
South side of
Memorial Drive from No parking           1, 1965  3-2-1965   Fine: $3 to $10
State Route 267 to
West Street
South and west
right-of-way of     No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
Holiday Lane and
Westbrook Lane
South and west
right-of-way of
Crestwood Drive     No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
from Indianapolis
Road to Greenwood
Drive
South and north     No parking from 7:30
right-of-way of     a.m. to 2:30 p.m.,
Carlisle Street     Monday through
intersecting        Friday and no        22, 1978 12-5-1978  Fine: $1 to $25
Indiana Street to   parking at any time
the entrance of     during the school
Paul Hadley Junior  calendar year
High School
South and east
right-of-way of
Brentwood Drive     No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
from Indianapolis
Road to St. Clair
Street
South and west
right-of-way of
Dunn Drive from     No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
Edgewood to Fair
Lane
South and west
right-of-way of
Sunset Manor from   No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Morning Star Drive
to Maple Lane
South side of
Washington Street
west of             No parking           10, 2000 6-27-2000  Fine: $1 to $25
intersection with
Franklin Street
South side of
Washington Street   No parking           3, 1948  - -1948    Fine: $10
from Bolton Avenue
to Franklin Street
South right-of-way
of Holiday Lane
from Westbrook      No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Drive to Eastwood
Drive
South right-of-way
of Washington       No parking           3, 1984  3-6-1984   Fine: $1 to $25
Street intersecting
Maple Lane
South right-of-way  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Williams Drive
South right-of-way
of Sweetwood Drive  No parking           17, 1982 12-21-1982 Fine: $1 to $25
intersecting
Indianapolis Road
South right-of-way
of Washington       No parking           16, 1982 12-7-1982  Fine: $1 to $25
Street intersecting
Maple Lane
South right-of-way  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Highland Drive
South right-of-way
of Main Street of
Main Street         No parking           3, 1985  5-21-1985  Fine: $1 to $25
intersecting
Franklin Street
South right-of-way  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of North Drive
South right-of-way
of Greenwood Drive
from Crestwood and  No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
Greenwood Drives to
Maple Lane
South right-of-way
of Greenwood Drive  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
from Crestwood to
Maple Lane
West side of Carter
Street from         No parking           7, 1965  7-6-1965   Fine: $3 to $10
Washington Street
to Morgan Street
West side of
Franklin Street
from Washington     No parking           3, 1948  - -1948    Fine: $10
Street to Main
Street
West South Street
intersecting
Indiana Street,     No parking           2, 2006  2-21-2006  Fine: $25
west to the first
alley
West side of
Jefferson Street,   15-minute parking    11, 1996 12-16-1996 Fine: $1 to $25
north of Main
Street
West side of
Jefferson Street
intersecting Morgan No parking           8, 2003  10-7-2003  Fine: $1 to $25
Street and
Washington Street
West side of Maple
Lane from           No parking           2, 1990  1-16-1990  Fine: $1 to $25
Washington Street
West side of Maple
Lane from St. Clair No parking           1, 1965  3-2-1965   Fine: $3 to $10
Street to Center
Drive
West side of North                                           Fine: $25 or $1
Indiana Street from No parking           2, 1964  3-3-1964   within 24 hours of
Morgan Street to                                             charge
the retaining wall
West side of North  No parking from 8:00
Indiana Street      a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on
intersecting West   Friday and 8:00 a.m. 5, 1972  3-21-1972  Fine: $1 to $25
Washington Street   to 12:00 a.m. on
                    Saturday
West and south
right-of-way of
Church Street from  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
St. Clair Street to
Indiana Street
West and south
right-of-way of
Dunn Drive from     No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Fair Lane to
Edgewood Drive
West and south
sides of Delwood
Drive from          No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
Northfield Drive to
Westwood Drive
West right-of-way
of Crestwood Drive
from Arlington      No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
Drive to Greenwood
Drive
West right-of-way
of Nelson Drive     No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
from Crestwood
Drive to Rose Lane
West right-of-way
of Westwood Drive
from Northfield     No parking           10, 1976 11-16-1976 Fine: $1 to $25
Drive to Hendricks
County Line Road
West right-of-way
of Arlington Drive
from St. Clair      No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Street north to
Crestwood Drive
West right-of-way
of Maple Lane from  No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
St. Clair Street to
North Drive
West right-of-way
of Westbrook Drive
from Devonwood      No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
Drive to Holiday
Lane
West right-of-way   No parking           10, 1977 6-21-1977  Fine: $1 to $25
of Rose Lane
 
   (B)   The town shall post or cause to be posted appropriate signs indicating
the aforesaid parking restrictions.
   (C)   (1)   The town is authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed
and towed away by a commercial towing service, any motor vehicle violating the
restrictive time parking zones as provided herein.
      (2)   Any such vehicle towed away for violating the provisions of this
schedule shall be towed to a place of safe storage and shall not be returned to
the owner of such motor vehicle until such time as the owner pays a reasonable
commercial towing charge, and storage expense, if any, as may be determined
under the circumstances; and in addition thereto, such owner of said vehicle
shall pay such fines as shall be assessed for the parking violation.
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAP PARKING.
   The Town Council approves the signage for handicap parking signs at the
following locations.
 
Location                              Ord.    Date      Penalty
In front of 70 West Washington Street 5, 2013 7-2-2013  Fine: Up to $100
132 1/2 West Harrison Street          4, 2017 9-26-2017 -
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   CEMETERY
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Fowl, reptiles and other animals
Dogs and Cats
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Rabies vaccination
   
90.17   Owner responsibility
   
90.18   Impoundment
   
90.19   Redemption
   
90.20   Interference
   
90.21   Cruelty to animals
   
90.22   Keeping of numerous dogs and cats in the town
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.35   Actions allowed by authorized persons prior to hearing
   
90.36   Definitions
   
90.37   Hearing procedures
   
90.38   Registration
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 FOWL, REPTILES AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity
to keep or maintain any one or more of the following within the corporate
limits of the town: Horse; mule; pony; goat; sheep; pig; potbellied pig; hog;
chicken or rooster; turkey; duck; goose; pigeon; cow or cattle; more than two
rabbits; or other farm animals that are inconsistent with residential uses in
an area not zoned for agricultural use.
   (B)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section to display any type of
exotic animal, reptile or wild animal in a public place without first obtaining
approval through the Town Council. Pet shop displays would be excluded from
this section. The granting of the approval shall be based upon public health
and safety.
   (C)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section to stake any animal
outside when it is in heat; any such animal must be maintained in an enclosed
building or structure which restricts it from leaving and other animals from
entering or in a fenced area that restricts the animal from leaving the
property or any other animals from entering the property.
   (D)   It shall not be permissible to give away any type of animal as a prize
without first obtaining approval of the Town Council to ensure the public’s
safety from any health hazards.
   (E)   Any animal requiring a statewide animal possession permit must file
with the Clerk-Treasurer a notice of the permit, a description of the animal,
the animal’s location and copies of the permit application which would show the
details, including appropriate immunization, the plan for quick and safe
recapture and other details relevant to the public health and safety for the
town.
   (F)   This section shall be enforced through the town’s animal control
officer or the Town Marshal’s office with all violations being cited into the
Town Court.
(Ord. 2, 1997, passed 3-18-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Dog or cat.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The animal control officer appointed by the Town
Council or any police officer.
   ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, animal auction,
performing animal exhibition, kennel or animal shelter, except this term shall
not include veterinary medical facilities, licensed research facilities,
facilities operated by government agencies or licensed animal dealers regulated
by the USDA under the provisions of Pub. Law No. 89-544, 91-579, 94-279, 99-198
and 101-624.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Facility designated or recognized by the town for the
purpose of impounding and caring for animals.
   AT LARGE. A dog or cat shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when off the property
of the owner and not under restraint or, in the event of the arrest of the
owner or person having possession of the dog or cat and the arresting agency
turning the dog or cat over to the animal control authority, the dog or cat
shall be treated as a dog or cat AT LARGE.
   DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT. Any dog or cat which without justification attacks a
person or domestic animal causing physical injury or death, or behaves in a
manner that a reasonable person would believe poses an unjustified imminent
threat of serious injury or death to one or more persons or domestic animals. A
dog’s or cat’s breed shall not be considered in determining whether or not it
is DANGEROUS. Further, no dog or cat may be declared DANGEROUS:
      (1)   If the dog or cat was protecting or defending a person within the
immediate vicinity of the dog or cat from an attack or assault;
      (2)   If at the time the person was committing a crime or offense upon
the property of the owner or custodian of the dog or cat;
      (3)   If the person was leasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog or cat, or in the past had teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog
or cat;
      (4)   If the dog or cat was attacked or menaced by the domestic animal,
or the domestic animal was on the property of the owner or custodian of the dog
or cat;
      (5)   If the dog or cat was responding to pain or injury, or protecting
itself, its kennels or its offspring;
      (6)   If the person or domestic animal was disturbing the dog’s or cat’s
natural functions such as sleeping or eating; or
      (7)   Neither growling nor barking, nor both, shall alone constitute
grounds upon which to find a dog or cat to be DANGEROUS.
   HUMANE MANNER. Care of an animal to include, but not be limited to, adequate
heat, ventilation and sanitary shelter, wholesome food and water, consistent
with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal’s size, species
and breed.
   KENNEL. An establishment kept for the purpose of breeding, selling or
boarding dogs or cats, or engaged in training dogs or cats.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. The agency or department of the town, or any designated
representative thereof, charged with administering the issuance and/or
revocation of permits and licenses under the provisions of this subchapter.
   LIVESTOCK GUARDING DOGS. Dogs kept for the primary purpose of protecting
livestock from predatory attacks.
   NEUTERED. Rendered permanently incapable of reproduction.
   NUISANCE. A dog or cat which: Damages, soils, defiles or defecates on
private property other than the owner’s or on public walks and recreation
areas, unless such waste is immediately removed and properly disposed of by the
owner; causes unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions; causes a
disturbance by excessive barking or other noise making; or chases vehicles, or
molests, attacks or interferes with persons or other domestic animals on public
property.
   OWNER. A person having the right of property or custody of a dog or cat, or
who keeps or harbors a dog or cat, or knowingly permits a dog or cat to remain
on or about premises occupied by that person.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization or
institution, commonly recognized by laws as a unit.
   PET SHOP. An establishment engaged in the business of buying or selling, at
retail, dogs or cats or other animals for profit-making purposes.
   RESTRAINT. A dog or cat shall be considered under RESTRAINT if it is within
the real property limits of its owner or secured by a leash or lead or under
the control of a responsible person.
   TOWN. The Town of Mooresville, Indiana.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009)
§ 90.16 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
90.17 of this code, no person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat over
four months of age within the town unless such dog or cat is vaccinated. The
provisions of this section do not apply to animals owned by a licensed research
facility or held in a veterinary medical facility or government operated or
licensed animal shelter.
   (B)   All dogs and cats shall be vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian, in accordance with the latest Compendium of Animal Rabies
Prevention and Control, authored by the National Association of State Public
Health Veterinarians and published annually in the Journal of the American
Veterinary Medical Association.
   (C)   A certificate of vaccination shall be issued to the owner of each
animal vaccinated on a form recommended by the compendium. Each owner shall
also receive a durable vaccination tag indicating the year in which it was
issued.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009)
§ 90.17 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All dogs and cats shall be kept under restraint.
      (2)   Every dangerous dog or cat, as defined in §
90.15 of this code, shall be confined by its owner within a building or secure
enclosure and shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of
its owner.
      (3)   No dog or cat shall be allowed to cause a nuisance. The owner of
every dog or cat shall be held responsible for every behavior of such dog or
cat under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Dogs and cats running at large. It shall be unlawful for any person
owning or possessing any dog or cat to permit the same to run at large. A dog
or cat shall not be considered running at large if it is on a leash or under
the control of a person physically able to control it, however, no dog or cat
shall be permitted in any cemetery.
   (C)   Keeping barking dogs and crying cats.
      (1)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood in such a manner as to materially annoy persons in the
neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. The time of day of the barking,
length of time of barking or crying and intervals of each shall be relevant in
determining whether or not a violation has occurred.
      (2)   Petitions complaining of barking dogs or crying cats. Whenever any
person shall complain to the Police Department or animal control officer that a
dog habitually barks, howls or yelps, or a cat habitually cries and is being
kept by any person within the town, the Police Department or animal control
officer shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint has been
received, and the person should take whatever steps necessary to relieve the
barking, howling, yelping or crying noise from the animal. If the warning given
to the person as set forth above is ineffective, then a verified complaint can
be filed by the entity that has noticed, based upon the observations, or based
upon a complaint in writing of at least two citizens not from the same family
being presented to the Police Department or animal control officer alleging
that a dog habitually barks, howls or yelps, or a cat habitually cries and is
being kept within the town. The Police Department or animal control officer
shall inform the owner of said animal that the petition has been received and
shall cite the owner of the animal for a violation alleged in said petition,
pursuant to this subchapter, cited into the Town Court.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or harbor a dog or cat unless it
shall have been inoculated as stated in §
90.16 of this code.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each dog or cat owner to have such dog or
cat inoculated with an anti-rabic vaccine or any similar vaccine by a
veterinarian as required to keep the animal properly vaccinated from rabies.
         (a)   Dogs or cats under four months of age are not required to be
vaccinated.
         (b)   Any dog or cat for which a licensed veterinarian issues a
certificate to the effect that the proposed inoculation will be harmful shall
be exempt from the inoculation prescribed by this section.
   (E)   Identification. Dog and cat owners shall ensure that their dog or cat
carries identification at all times in the form of microchip, tag or other
means to allow easy determination of the owners.
   (F)   Protecting livestock. Livestock guarding dogs shall be exempt from
nuisance regulations when performing duties protecting livestock on premises
owned or controlled by the owner.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog or cat found running at large may be impounded by the town in
an animal shelter and confined in a humane manner. Immediately upon impounding
a dog or cat, the town shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owner
and inform such owner of the conditions whereby custody of the animal may be
regained. Dogs and cats not claimed by their owners within a period of three
full days in which the shelter is open to the public shall become the property
of the town.
   (B)   When a dog or cat is found running at large and its ownership is
verified by the town, the town may exercise the option of serving the owner
with a notice of violation in lieu of impounding the animal.
   (C)   (1)   In the event that the town finds dogs or cats to be suffering,
it shall have the right forthwith to remove or cause to have removed any such
animals to a safe place for care at the owner’s expense or to euthanize them
when necessary to prevent further suffering.
      (2)   Return to the owner may be withheld until the owner shall have made
full payment for all expenses so incurred.
   (D)   Disposal of an animal by any method specified herein does not relieve
the owner of liability for violations and any accrued charges.
   (E)   Instructions for a home quarantine (location of quarantine is at the
discretion of the town) are as follows.
      (1)   (a)   The facility used for confinement shall ensure an escape-
proof environment subject to unannounced periodic spot checks by the animal
control officer or local Director of Health. The animal shall be confined
inside a structure, not on a chain or in a fenced yard.
         (b)   Diagrams for the construction of cat and dog isolation cages are
available if such is recommended by the animal control officer or local
Director of Health.
      (2)   The animal shall not leave the quarantine premises for any reason.
The animal shall not have contact with humans or animals for the ten-day
period, with the exception of the primary caretaker.
      (3)   At the first sign of illness of the animal, the owner shall notify
the town. Symptoms to watch for include fever, loss of appetite, excessive
irritability, unusual vocalization, change in behavior, restlessness, jumping
at noises, trouble walking, excessive salivation, tremors, convulsions,
paralysis, stupors or unprovoked aggression.
      (4)   At the end of the ten-day quarantine period, the owner is
responsible for contacting the town to report on the health status of the
animal.
      (5)   If at any time during the quarantine these guidelines cannot be met
or are violated, the animal will be picked up and the ten-day quarantine will
be completed at the Department of Animal Control’s shelter or a facility
designated by the local Director of Health.
      (6)   When a pet has been exposed to rabies and it is unvaccinated,
euthanasia is recommended. Alternatively, the owner has the option of arranging
for a six-month quarantine at owner’s expense. This is due to the special
public health risks associated with these animals (i.e., those potentially
incubating rabies) and the need to prevent human and other animal exposures
from occurring should rabies symptoms develop.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009)
§ 90.19 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Any animal impounded may be redeemed by the owner thereof within three
days upon payment of an impoundment fee of up to $10 per day. Payment of
impoundment fees is not considered to be in lieu of any fine, penalty or
license fees.
   (B)   Any animal confined for rabies quarantine, evidence or other purpose
may be redeemed by the owner thereof upon payment of fees of up to $10 per day
of impoundment.
   (C)   No animal required to be vaccinated under this subchapter may be
redeemed until provisions for such licensing have been fulfilled.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009)
§ 90.20 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest any agent of the town in
the performance of any duty as herein provided.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture,
abuse or cruelly beat, strike or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or
neglect cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering,
injury or death to any animal whether such animal belongs to such person or to
another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the animal
shelter for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with food, proper
water, shade or shelter or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather or to carry any such animal in or
upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of
June through September.
         SHELTER. A moisture-proof structure of suitable size to accommodate
the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of durable material with a solid
floor raised at least two inches from the ground and with the entrance covered
by a flexible wind-proof material. Such structure shall be provided with a
sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to provide insulation and protection
against cold and dampness.
   (C)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the police officer or
animal control officer and cited into the Town Court.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 KEEPING OF NUMEROUS DOGS AND CATS IN THE TOWN.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the
town in excess of 15 days detracts from and, in many instances, is detrimental
to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were created. The
keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore, declared to be a
public nuisance.
      (1)   DOGS shall mean any canine, regardless of age or sex.
      (2)   CATS shall mean any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   (B)   Number of dogs and cats limited. It shall be unlawful for any person
or entity to keep more than four dogs, cats or other small animals in total as
household pets without the property being zoned as a kennel. It shall be
allowable to keep a litter of puppies or kittens totaling in excess of this
number as long as they are under the age of four months.
(Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.35 ACTIONS ALLOWED BY AUTHORIZED PERSONS PRIOR TO HEARING.
   (A)   If any dog shall attack a person or domestic animal who was peaceably
conducting himself or herself in any place where he or she may lawfully be, any
person, for the purpose of preventing imminent injury or further injury, may
use such force as is required to stop the attack.
   (B)   A police officer or animal control officer acting pursuant to his or
her duties may, where the threat of serious injury to a person or domestic
animal is imminent and unjustified, use such force as is required to prevent
such injury.
   (C)   (1)   A police officer or animal control officer may, when a wild or
vicious animal is found off the premises of its owner, seize the animal and
have the same destroyed in a humane manner if the police officer or animal
control officer determines this is necessary to protect the health and safety
of the general public.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that is mean, has an aggressive behavior
that is potentially harmful to the general public. No such animal shall be kept
where a child could gain open access to the animal and adequate means shall
always be provided to keep the general public or persons who enter the premises
with actual or implied permission from the owner or occupant from contact with
said animal.
         WILD ANIMAL. One which is not normally domesticated or easily
restrained or regulated.
      (3)   No animal will be destroyed without some reasonable attempt to
notify the owner unless there is a risk of impending harm to any person or
property which would make said notice unreasonable.
(Ord. 10, 2006, passed 10-3-2006)
§ 90.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. Aggressive physical contact initiated by the dog.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog which without justification attacks a person or
domestic animal causing physical injury or death, or behaves in a manner that a
reasonable person would believe poses an unjustified imminent threat of serious
injury or death to one or more persons or domestic animals. A dog’s breed shall
not be considered in determining whether or not it is DANGEROUS. Further, no
dog may be declared DANGEROUS:
      (1)   If the dog was protecting or defending a person within the
immediate vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault;
      (2)   If at the time the person was committing a crime or offense upon
the property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
      (3)   If the person was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog, or in the past had teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog;
      (4)   If the dog was attacked or menaced by the domestic animal or the
domestic animal was on the property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
      (5)   If the dog was responding to pain or injury, or protecting itself,
its kennels or its offspring;
      (6)   If the person or domestic animal was disturbing the dog’s natural
functions such as sleeping or eating; and
      (7)   Neither growling nor barking, nor both, shall alone constitute
grounds upon which to find a dog to be DANGEROUS.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal commonly kept as a pet in family households in
the United States, including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, guinea pigs,
rabbits and hamsters and any animals commonly kept for companion or commercial
purposes.
   SERIOUS INJURY. Any physical injury consisting of moderate puncture (four or
more), shaking, severe punctures (four or more deep), may include crushing or
tears from shaking.
(Ord. 10, 2006, passed 10-3-2006)
§ 90.37 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person may make a complaint of an alleged dangerous dog, as that
term is defined in §
90.36 of this code, to a police officer or animal control officer of the town.
Such officers shall immediately inform the complainant of his or her right to
commence a proceeding provided for in division (B) below, and, if there is
reason to believe the dog is a dangerous dog, the officer shall forthwith
commence such proceeding himself or herself.
   (B)   (1)   Any person may, and any police officer or animal control officer
acting within the scope of his or her statutory duties shall, make a complaint
under oath or affirmation of an alleged dangerous dog, as that term is defined
in §
90.36 of this code, to any Town Court Judge. Thereupon, the Judge shall
immediately determine if there is probable cause to believe the dog is a
dangerous dog and, if so, shall issue an order to any police officer or animal
control officer pursuant to his or her statutory duties or animal control
officer directing such officer to immediately seize such dog and hold same
pending judicial determination as herein provided, or issue an order to the
owner to impound the dog or quarantine the dog at home pursuant to the
requirements of §
90.18 of this code.
      (2)   Whether or not the Judge finds there is probable cause for such
seizure, he or she shall, within seven days and upon written notice of not less
than three days to the owner of the dog, hold a hearing on the complaint. (The
seven days shall be extended to the first business day if it falls on a
weekend.)
(Ord. 10, 2006, passed 10-3-2006)
§ 90.38 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Where a dog is determined, pursuant to clear and convincing evidence
at a duly constituted hearing to be dangerous, the Judge shall require the
owner of said animal to register such animal with the appropriate Health
Department or animal control facility and to provide prompt notification to the
appropriate Health Department or animal control facility of any changes in the
ownership of the animal; names, addresses and telephone numbers of new owners;
any change in the health status of the animal; and further instances of attack;
any claims made or lawsuits brought as a result of further instances of attack;
the death of the animal.
   (B)   In addition, the Judge may require any or all of the following, but
divisions (B)(5), (B)(6) and (B)(11) below may only be imposed where there has
been serious injury to a person.
      (1)   Indoors, when not alone, the dog must be under the control of a
person 18 years or older. (Provisions for the dog to be outdoors must also be
made.)
      (2)   Outdoors and unattended, the dog must be kept within a locked
fenced area from which it cannot escape.
      (3)   When outdoors, the dog must be attended and kept within a fenced
area from which it cannot escape.
      (4)   When outdoors, the dog must be attended and kept on a leash no
longer than six feet and under the control of a person 18 years of age or
older.
      (5)   When outdoors, the dog must be attended and muzzled. Such muzzle
shall not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration
but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      (6)   When outdoors and unattended, the dog must be confined to an
escape-proof kennel of the following description.
         (a)   Such kennel shall allow the dog to stand normally and without
restriction and shall be at least two and one-half times the length of the dog
and shall protect the dog from the elements.
         (b)   Fencing materials shall not have openings with a diameter of
more than two inches, and in the case of wooden fences, the gaps shall not be
more than two inches.
         (c)   Any gates within such kennel or structure shall be lockable and
of such design as to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal,
and when the dog is confined to such kennel and unattended, such locks shall be
kept locked.
         (d)   The kennel may be required to have double exterior walls to
prevent the insertion of fingers, hands or other objects, and the kennel or
structure must have an escape proof covering on the top.
      (7)   Placement of a sign or signs of a description and in places
directed by the Judge must advise the public of the presence and tendencies of
said animal.
      (8)   Attendance by the dog and its owner/custodian at training sessions
conducted by a certified applied animal behaviorist, Board-certified veterinary
behaviorist or other recognized expert in the field and completion of training
or any other treatment as deemed appropriate by such expert. The owners of the
dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with the evaluation and
training ordered under this section.
      (9)   Neutering or spaying of the dog at the owner’s expenses unless
medically contraindicated.
      (10)   That the dog be permanently identified by tattooing or by
injecting an identification microchip using standard veterinary procedures and
practices, identification number and the identification of the person
performing the procedure to be registered with the appropriate Health
Department or animal control facility as indicated above.
      (11)   The procurement of liability insurance in an amount to be
determined by the Judge but in no case in an amount of less than $50,000
covering the medical and/or veterinary costs resulting from future actions of
the dog (a determination of liability shall be made in accordance with the laws
of the state).
      (12)   If a further incident of attack occurs under such circumstances
that the dog, have a hearing as described above, is determined to be a
dangerous dog, the Judge may impose or re-impose any applicable directives
listed above; additionally, humane destruction of the dog may be ordered but
only where the further incident involves serious injury to a person.
      (13)   The dangerous dog shall not be allowed in a public park or public
place.
(Ord. 10, 2006, passed 10-3-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §
90.01 of this code shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 per violation. The
town also reserves the right to take such other action as is necessary to
terminate any existing violation including injunctive relief and other civil
remedies available and the town having the right to pursue all remedies
available with no remedy deemed to be the exclusive remedy.
      (2)   Any person, individual, firm, legal entity, association or
corporation found guilty of a violation of §
90.01 of this code is advised that each day the violation exists shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   All violations of §§
90.15 through
90.22 of this code shall be cited into the Town Court.
      (2)   A violation of §
90.16 of this code shall be subject to a fine of $50 up to $500, along with
court costs.
      (3)   A violation of §
90.17 of this code shall be subject to a fine of $50 up to $500, along with
court costs based upon prior violations and circumstance as determined by the
Town Court.
      (4)   A violation of §
90.18 of this code shall be subject to a fine of $50 up to $500 along with
court costs.
      (5)   Any person violating §
90.20 of this code shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 or more than
$500.
      (6)   Any person violating §
90.21 of this code shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 or more than
$500 along with court costs.
      (7)   Any person violating §
90.22 of this code shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 or more than
$500 along with court costs.
   (D)   If any of the conditions ordered by a Judge pursuant to §
90.38(B)(1) through (B)(13) of this code are not complied with, the owner shall
be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 2, 1997, passed 3-18-1997; Ord. 1, 2009, passed 5-5-2009)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Obstructions on private property
   
91.002   Depositing rubbish prohibited
Public Nuisances
   
91.015   Public nuisances prohibited
   
91.016   “Public nuisances” defined
   
91.017   Public health nuisances
   
91.018   Public nuisances offending morals and decency
   
91.019   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.020   Abatement
Weeds and Noxious Plants
   
91.035   Removal of weeds, debris and other such rank vegetation
   
91.036   Collection of fees from property owners
Junk and Junk Cars
   
91.050   Definitions
   
91.051   Junk and junk cars declared nuisance
   
91.052   Storage prohibited
Abandoned Vehicles
   
91.065   Abandoned vehicles declared public nuisances
   
91.066   “Abandoned vehicle” defined
   
91.067   Time limits
   
91.068   Removal procedures
   
91.069   Enforcement
   
91.070   Disposal and sale of stored vehicles
   
91.071   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
91.072   Exempt vehicles
   
91.073   Towing and storage charges
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 OBSTRUCTIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person owning, renting, controlling, using or occupying any
building or private property in the town shall create or allow any obstruction
on said private property within 25 feet of a street or road within the town
limits, which obstruction creates a hazard to the operation of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Such hazard shall be deemed to exist when an obstruction such as a
hedge, fence, sign, bush, flowers and the like reach a height of more than 40
inches and obstruct or impair the vision of an operator of a vehicle being
driven on said street or road. Maximum height shall be deemed as the actual
height of said obstruction or the elevation from the surface of said street or
road, whichever is the greater.
   (C)   Upon failure of any such person to comply with division (A) above,
such person shall be notified in writing by the Town Council of such failure
and shall be given ten days in which to remove said obstruction.
   (D)   If said obstruction still exists after ten days from the date of the
written notice, the Street Commissioner or other authorized town employee shall
be fully authorized to remove or correct said obstruction and charge the cost
thereof against the owner or resident of said property. Such cost may be
collected by action therefor against such owner or resident, or both, in lieu
of and in addition thereto, may file and certify such charges to the assessment
herein, which shall file a statement thereof with the Clerk-Treasurer, who
shall place such charges upon the tax duplicate, whereupon the same shall
constitute a lien upon such real estate and be charged and statements rendered
therefor and be collected the same as taxes. No notice of any such charge, so
assessed, shall be required, but such person so liable shall be chargeable with
notice thereof, as shown by such public tax and other records.
(Ord. 15, 1968, passed 7-16-1968) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 DEPOSITING RUBBISH PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw, place or
deposit any rubbish in any sewer, drain, ditch or stream within the corporate
limits of the town. For the purpose of this section, RUBBISH is defined as
cans, ashes, underbrush and various other things not herein specifically set
forth.
(Ord. passed 12-20-1927) Penalty, see §
91.999
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.015 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit to
exist any public nuisance within the town. An agricultural operation or any of
its appurtenances is not and does not become a nuisance, private or public, by
any changed conditions in the vicinity of the locality after the agricultural
operation has been continuous for more than one year if there is no significant
change in the hours of operation, there is no significant change in the types
of operation and the operation would not have been a nuisance at the time the
agricultural operation began on that locality.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 “PUBLIC NUISANCES” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially interfere, injure or endanger the comfort, health,
repose or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency;
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way; or
      (5)   Is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses of
a reasonable person, or an obstruction to the full use of property so as
essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.017 PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
specifically declared to be public health nuisances but shall not be construed
to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition of public
nuisance in §
91.016 of this code:
   (A)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold
or offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
   (C)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, junk vehicles, scrap metal or any
material in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other
vermin may breed, or may be a fire hazard;
   (D)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
multiply;
   (E)   Garbage cans which are not fly-tight or not kept clean;
   (F)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases, fly
ash or industrial dust within the town limits in such quantities as to endanger
the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or threaten or cause
substantial injury to property;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, river, lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other
substances;
   (H)   Any use of property, substances or things within the town emitting or
causing foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable odors,
effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary
persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health or any
appreciable number of persons within the town;
   (I)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public use;
   (J)   All detrimental plants as defined in I.C. 15-16-8-1 or noxious weeds
as defined in I.C. 15-16-7-2;
   (K)   Any accumulation of junk, rubbish, scrap metal, automotive parts,
building materials, machinery, dead trees or parts thereof, (excluding cut and
stacked firewood) upon any premises in a residential area; and
   (L)   Any structure used for the collection or deposit of trash or garbage
that has an open door allowing access into said structure, except when the door
is open to allow the structure to be used for the deposit or removal of trash
or garbage, or to allow the structure to be cleaned or repaired.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.018 PUBLIC NUISANCES OFFENDING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   (A)   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public morals and
decency, but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
offending public morals and decency coming within the definition of public
nuisance in §
91.016 of this code:
      (1)   All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill fame, gambling
houses and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution or gambling;
      (2)   All gambling devices and slot machines;
      (3)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages
are sold, brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without a permit or
license as provided for by this code or state law;
      (4)   Any place or premises within the town where town ordinances or
state laws relating to public health, safety, peace, morals or welfare are
openly, continuously, repeatedly and intentionally violated; and
      (5)   Any place or premises resorted to for the purpose of drinking
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of the laws of the
state or the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Public nuisances offending morals and decency shall also mean:
      (1)   Any place in or upon which prostitution (as described in I.C. 35-
45-4) is conducted;
      (2)   Any public place in or upon which sexual intercourse (as defined in
I.C. 35-31.5-2-302) is conducted; or
      (3)   Any public place in or upon which the fondling of the genitals of a
person is conducted, permitted, continued or exists and the personal property
and contents used in conducting and maintaining the place for such a purpose.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.019 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are declared to
be public nuisances affecting peace and safety but such enumeration shall not
be construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public peace or safety coming
within the provisions of §
91.016 of this code:
   (A)   All buildings erected, repaired or altered within the town in
violation of the provisions of town ordinances relating to materials and manner
of construction of buildings and structures;
   (B)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport to
be or may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or maintained
upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing;
   (C)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a
clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk;
   (D)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less than
eight feet above the surface thereof or less than ten feet above the surface of
a public street;
   (E)   All use of display of fireworks except as provided by the laws of the
state and town ordinances;
   (F)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human use, or shall be
an invitation to children and endanger the lives of such children, or which,
because of its condition has become a fire hazard;
   (G)   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung less
than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground;
   (H)   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind, except as
may be permitted under a zoning ordinance or
Chapter 131 of this code;
   (I)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and all
excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of the
town of which, although made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept or
maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished;
   (J)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalks;
   (K)   All abandoned refrigerators, iceboxes or similar containers from which
the doors and other covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with
a device for opening from the inside by pushing only with the strength of a
small child;
   (L)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley or sidewalk or of a public street, alley or sidewalk which causes
large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of the
streets or sidewalks;
   (M)   Any sign, marquee or awning which is in an unsafe condition, or which
overhangs any roadway, or which overhangs any sidewalks less than eight feet
above the sidewalk surface; and
   (N)   Any nuisance so defined by the state code.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.020 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Abatement of public nuisances.
      (1)   Whenever complaint is made to the police or Town Clerk-Treasurer
that a public nuisance exists or has existed within the town, he, she or they
shall promptly notify the Building Inspector, Clerk-Treasurer, Police
Department or some other town official whom the Town Council shall designate,
who shall forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and shall
make a written report of his, her or their findings to the Building Inspector
or Police Department.
      (2)   Whenever practicable, the inspection officer shall cause
photographs to be made of the premises and shall file the same in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer or the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Notice to owner.
         (a)   If the inspection officer shall determine that a public nuisance
exists on private property and that there is a great and immediate danger to
the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the Town Council or the
officials appointed by the Town Council may direct the Chief of Police to serve
a notice on the owner, or, if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant or
person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance and to post a copy of
the notice on the premises.
         (b)   Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining such nuisance to abate or remove such nuisance with
24 hours and shall state that unless such nuisance is so abated, the town will
cause the same to be abated and will charge the cost thereof to the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the same, as the case may
be.
      (2)   Abatement by town. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided, or if the owner, occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the Building Inspector, or some other town official whom the Town
Council shall designate, shall cause the abatement or removal of such public
nuisance.
      (3)   Abatement by court action. If the inspection officer (police
officer or Building Inspector) shall, determine that a public nuisance exists
on private premises but that the nature of such nuisance is not such as to
threaten great and immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals
or decency, he or she shall file a written complaint of his or her findings
with the Town Court who shall cause an action to abate such nuisance to be
commenced in the name of the town against the alleged violating entity.
   (C)   Cost of abatement. In addition to any other penalty imposed by this
section for the erection, contrivance, creation, continuance or maintenance of
a public nuisance, the cost of abating a public nuisance by the town shall be
collected as a debt from the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or
maintaining the nuisance, and if notice to abate the nuisance has been given to
the owner, such cost shall be assessed against the real estate as other special
taxes.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
WEEDS AND NOXIOUS PLANTS
§ 91.035 REMOVAL OF WEEDS, DEBRIS AND OTHER SUCH RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEBRIS. Include the remains of something broken down or destroyed.
      RANK VEGETATION. Includes weeds and growing vegetation which are
excessively vigorous in growth, shockingly conspicuous, malodorous and/or
flagrant.
      WEEDS. Includes any plant that is not valued where it is growing, and is
of rank growth, tends to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants and/or is
listed as a weed in the U.S. Department of Agricultural publication entitled
Common Weeds of the United States or in any similar government publication, or
those defined in §
91.017(J) of this code.
   (B)   Violation. It is a violation of this section to have weeds, rank
vegetation and/or debris on any real property (the “property”) located within
the town’s corporate limits.
   (C)   Requirement to cut. All owners of property located within the town
shall cut and remove weeds and other rank vegetation growing thereon that
exceeds an average height of six inches and shall keep their property clear of
debris.
   (D)   Violation notice.
      (1)   In the event of a violation of this section, an officer of the
town’s Police Department shall issue a written notice (the “violation notice”)
to the violating landowner.
      (2)   The violation notice shall identify the violation and order the
landowner to correct the same within seven calendar days from the date on which
the violation notice is served on the landowner (the “abatement period”).
      (3)   Personal service, service by U.S. certified mail or any other
manner of service recognized in the state’s rules of trial procedure shall
constitute proper service upon the landowner for purposes of this section.
   (E)   Appeal. Any violation notice issued pursuant to this section may be
appealed to the Town Court if written notice of appeal is served by the
landowner to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The timely appeal of a violation notice
shall toll the abatement period pending the issuance of a decision thereon by
the Town Court.
   (F)   Town to abate.
      (1)   If the landowner fails to timely abate each violation set forth in
a violation notice, the landowner shall be deemed to have granted permission to
the town to enter the landowner’s property for the limited purpose of cutting
and/or removing such debris, weeds or rank vegetation located thereon and
identified in the violation notice. In such case, the Town Council or its
designee shall prepare a certified statement as to the actual administrative
and other costs incurred by the town in taking such action and serve a copy of
the invoice on the landowner.
      (2)   The landowner shall, within seven calendar days from the date on
which the landowner is served with such invoice (the “payment period”), pay in
full the amount stated thereon to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (G)   Failure to pay. If the landowner fails to timely pay an invoice issued
pursuant to this section, the Town Council or its designee, shall certify to
the County Auditor the amount of the invoice, plus any additional
administrative costs incurred in the certification of the same. The Auditor
shall place the total amount so certified on the tax duplicate for the property
at issue, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be
collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
   (H)   Time of appeals. The Town Court shall hear any timely requested appeal
of a notice of violation or invoice within 30 calendar days following receipt
of the same and shall thereafter promptly issue a written decision granting or
denying, in whole or in part, the appeal. The date on which the Town Court’s
decision is served on the landowner shall thereafter become the first calendar
day of the abatement period or payment period, as applicable.
   (I)   Enforcement. The Town Court shall be the court of proper venue and
jurisdiction for the enforcement of this section.
   (J)   Applicability.
      (1)   This section supplements and does not limit any other remedy or
action available in law or in equity regarding the subject matter hereof.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to an agricultural district.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 COLLECTION OF FEES FROM PROPERTY OWNERS.
   If the owner fails to pay the sum assessed for the removal and/or cutting of
the debris, weeds or rank vegetation within the time prescribed, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the statement of costs in the County
Auditor’s office, and the Auditor shall place the amount so claims on the tax
duplicate against the lands of the landowner affected by the lien and the same
shall be collected as taxes disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
JUNK AND JUNK CARS
§ 91.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK.
      (1)   Any articles in any form composed of or consisting of any of the
following enumerated secondhand, discarded, abandoned or cast-off metals or
materials, namely: Iron; brass; bronze; copper; tin; zinc; lead or any other
metals or compounds thereof; broken glass; rags; clothing; rubber; plastics and
synthetic substances and fabrics; bottles; papers; feathers; or any other waste
material or any compound or by-product of the foregoing enumerated materials.
      (2)   JUNK shall also include and mean wrecked, abandoned or dismantled
automobile or parts thereof.
   JUNK CAR. Any motor vehicle which does not bear a currently valid license
plate and is not kept in a garage or building.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.051 JUNK AND JUNK CARS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   Because of the danger of health by vermin and insects, and because of the
danger of the safety of children attracted by junk or junk cars, abandoned
junked motor vehicles are declared to be nuisances except in lawfully operated
junk yards or in enclosed buildings.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.052 STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or to allow to remain in the
open upon public or private property within the town, any disassembled and/or
non-operative and unlicensed or junked, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicle for
a period of five days or more on public property, or a period of 15 days or
more on private property unless it is in connection with an automobile sale or
repair business or junk yard that is in zoning compliance.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 91.065 ABANDONED VEHICLES DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Because of the danger to the health from vermin, the danger of personal
injury to children attracted by such vehicles, danger of fire by the storage of
gasoline and oil thereon, any abandoned, unlicensed, inoperable, disassembled,
wrecked or junked motor vehicle on any street or public property for more than
five days or upon any private property for more than 15 days, except as
hereinafter provided, is declared to be a nuisance and unlawful.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.066 “ABANDONED VEHICLE” DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally, or a vehicle
left on public property continuously without being moved for more than five
days;
         (b)   A vehicle mechanically inoperable located on public property in
such a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of
pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (c)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 15
days;
         (d)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property for more than five days;
         (e)   A vehicle removed by a towing service or a public agency upon
request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance, other than in I.C. 9-
22-1-1 et seq., if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by
the owner or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal; or
         (f)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   (B)   All other terms defined in I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., as amended, are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.067 TIME LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the open
upon any public street, public property or private property within the town any
disassembled or inoperable and unlicensed, or any junked, wrecked or abandoned
motor vehicle for a period of five days or more on such public street or other
public property, or for a period of 15 days or more on any private property,
unless it is in connection with an automotive sales or repair enterprise, which
is operated under a duly issued and exhibited store license and is located in a
properly zoned area.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.068 REMOVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Public property.
      (1)   Whenever the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall find an
abandoned vehicle placed or stored in the open upon a public highway alley or
thoroughfare, or other public property within the town, he or she shall issue
an order to the owner of such vehicle, if known, to remove such vehicle within
five days.
      (2)   Notice of such order shall be given to such owner, if known, in
writing, but if such owner shall be unknown, such written notice shall be
placed in plain view upon the vehicle.
      (3)   If such vehicle is not removed within five days after such notice,
the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall cause said vehicle to be
removed by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service, the cost and expense of
such removal by a junk or salvage yard or by a wrecker service to be paid by
the owner of the vehicle.
      (4)   Impounded vehicles shall be released either upon payment by the
owner, operator or authorized representative of same of the fees charged for
towing and storage, or upon order of the Chief of Police or his or her
designee, or upon the order of the Judge of the Town Court.
      (5)   The form of all notices shall be issued pursuant to the provisions
of I.C. 9-22-1-11.
   (B)   Private property. Whenever the Chief of Police or his or her designee
shall find an abandoned vehicle placed or stored in the open upon private
property within the town, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of such
vehicle, if known, or the person who owns or controls the private property upon
which such vehicle is placed or stored according to the procedures set forth in
I.C. 9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-14, using the time periods for removal set out
herein of 15 days. Impounded vehicles shall be released either upon payment by
the owner, operator or authorized representative of same of the fees charged
for towing and storage, or upon order of the Chief of Police or his or her
designee, or upon the order of the Judge of the Town Court.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.069 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If such vehicle is not removed within five days from public property
and 15 days from private property after such notice, the Chief of Police or his
or her designee shall issue a written order of violation subject to civil
penalties of this chapter and enforcement shall be by the Town Attorney or his
or her designee and appropriate action by the Town Court.
   (B)   The form of all notices shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 9-22-1-11.
   (C)   All provisions and respective civil penalties are designed for
enforcement through the Town Court.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.070 DISPOSAL AND SALE OF STORED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-27 et seq. and I.C. 9-22-5 et seq. shall
govern the disposition and sale of stored vehicles.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.071 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-30, the town establishes an abandoned vehicle
account and fund with sufficient monies to carry out the purposes of this
subchapter. All proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts that are
sold pursuant to this subchapter shall be deposited in the abandoned vehicle
account after property allocation has been made for towing and storage charges.
All costs incurred by the town in administering this subchapter shall be paid
from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund. All monies remaining in the account at the end
of the year remain in that account and do not revert to the General Fund.
   (B)   The Abandoned Vehicle Fund as established in division (A) above shall
be governed by the provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-30.
(Ord. 14 1995, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.072 EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   This subchapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34 as a historic
vehicle.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.073 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   An owner or lien holder who claims a vehicle impounded and declared
abandoned by the Department shall be charged a towing fee and a per day storage
fee which shall be paid before the vehicle is released. If not timely paid, the
vehicle will be considered unclaimed and subject to sale pursuant to I.C. 9-22-
5 et seq.
(Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the Town Court or other court of competent
jurisdiction that a nuisance violation has occurred, the violating party shall
pay a fine of up to $500 with each day that the violation occurs to be an
additional violation. In addition, all costs associated with the enforcement of
§§
91.015 through
91.020,
91.035 through
91.036,
91.050 through
91.052 and
91.065 through
91.073 of this code shall be to the maximum extent possible be assessed to the
violating party.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
91.001 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $10. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
91.002 of this code shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not to exceed
$500, and each act shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
91.035 of this code shall be subject to the general penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (F)   Any person who is judged to have violated the provisions of §
91.069 of this code is subject to a fine of up to $500 in addition to towing
and storage charges.
(Ord. passed 12-20-1927; Ord. 15, 1968, passed 7-16-1968; Ord. 15, 2010, passed
- -)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire protection charges
   
92.02   Fire flow standards
   
92.03   Public fire hydrants
   
92.04   Knox Rapid Entry Emergency Key Box System
Burning Regulations
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Open burning
   
92.17   Enforcement
   
92.18   Burning regulations adopted
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.30   Code adopted
   
92.31   Enforcement and inspection
   
92.32   Stop work notice
   
92.33   Investigation of fires
   
92.34   Application to buildings
   
92.35   Administrative review; appeals
Smoke Detectors
   
92.50   Definitions
   
92.51   Smoke detectors required
   
92.52   Location
   
92.53   Installation
   
92.54   Maintenance
   
92.55   Responsibility
   
92.56   Certificates of compliance
   
92.57   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE PROTECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The town shall notify all utilities providing water service to the
town for fire protection that the charges for said fire protection service
shall be recovered through the general water service applicable to the
residents.
   (B)   Starting January 1, 1994, all water utilities which provide fire
protection service to the town shall be responsible for adjusting their water
service rates to allow for the recovery of the cost of fire protection service
to be charged to the utility users, and no fire hydrant rental shall be paid by
the town for fire protection services.
(Ord. 5 1993, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 92.02 FIRE FLOW STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town adopts certain residential fire flow requirements to become
applicable to all future residential development for one- and two-family
dwellings not exceeding two stories in height:
 
Distance Between Buildings Needed Fire Flow
Over 100 feet              500 GPM
31 to 100 feet             750 GPM
11 to 30 feet              1000 GPM
10 feet or less            1500 GPM
 
   (B)   The Fire Chief for the town or any deputies designated by him or her
are hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the provisions of this chapter
along with the Town Council and the persons designated by the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Building Inspector and Fire Chief shall work with any local
water utility in obtaining the needed fire flows for areas designated for
single-family and two-family dwellings to obtain the necessary fire flows.
(Ord. 4 1993, passed 5-18-1993)
§ 92.03 PUBLIC FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The town shall restrict the use of any public fire hydrant, PUBLIC
FIRE HYDRANT being defined as any fire hydrant located on the right-of-way of
the town, to representatives of the town’s Fire and Street Departments or the
water company employees, their engineers or contractors.
   (B)   Anyone desiring to use a public hydrant shall first contact the town’s
Fire Department and request permission to have the Fire Department meet them to
open the hydrant. In the event of an emergency, the town’s police dispatcher
shall be contacted for a representative of the town’s Fire Department to be
present to open the hydrant and the party using the water shall keep records on
the amount used and turn the same into the water company, or its successors and
assigns.
   (C)   In the event of non-emergency situations, the town’s Fire Department
shall refer the request to the water company to allow them to make arrangements
for obtaining the water through the hydrant located at the water company’s main
office in the town.
(Ord. 3-1993, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 KNOX RAPID ENTRY EMERGENCY KEY BOX SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Experience shows that when fires and emergencies occur, the Fire
Department needs rapid entry into the structure. Entry into the structure, in
some cases, must be made by force and cannot wait for a key holder to be
located and come to the scene.
      (2)   A Fire Department emergency key box shall be installed on all new
buildings and properties in which entry or access into an area is unduly
difficult due to secured openings and obstructed entry. Immediate access may be
necessary in order to expedite entry into the structure to aid in the Fire
Department task of life saving or hazardous conditions operations.
   (B)   The town, through its Fire Department, has instituted a key box
emergency access system utilizing the Knox Rapid Entry Emergency Key Box, and
for purposes of this chapter a KEY BOX SYSTEM shall be defined as the Knox
Rapid Entry Emergency Key Box System, and all systems referenced herein shall
be installed using the Knox System. Installation shall be required for any
commercial or industrial building constructed after the date of the passage of
the ordinance codified in this section, with the definition of commercial or
industrial building to consist of business or industrial uses defined in the
town’s Zoning Ordinance, if the building has one of the following:
      (1)   An automatic sprinkler system equipped with a local or transmitted
water-flow alarm;
      (2)   Any fire alarm system equipped with an outside audible/visual
signaling device; or
      (3)   Any fire alarm system where the alarm is transmitted to an offsite
location or to the fire alarm center for the servicing Fire Department.
   (C)   (1)   Key boxes are to be provided by the building owner and shall
contain such keys necessary to access all protected areas of the building.
Multi-tenant buildings may share an owner-provided box, and the building owner
shall assume responsibility for ensuring that keys are updated as appropriate.
      (2)   Tenant-provided boxes may not be shared with any other tenant, and
the tenant assumes responsibility for key updates for the subject tenant space.
Exception: Key boxes for apartment houses are not required to contain keys to
individual apartment dwelling units.
   (D)   (1)   Existing commercial and industrial structures (those falling
within zoning classifications of business, commercial or industrial uses as
defined under the town’s Zoning Ordinance) are not required to be in compliance
with the requirements of this section, however, in the event there is new
construction consisting of additional square footage being added to any
existing structure, and the requirements of division (B) above apply, then the
terms of this section shall apply, and the owner of the structure must come in
compliance with this section. Also, if any commercial or industrial structure,
as defined by the town’s Zoning Ordinance, adds systems addressed under
division (B) above, then it shall come into compliance with the terms of this
section.
      (2)   When a design release is issued by the office of the State Building
Commissioner or a permit by local government when a design release is not
required for construction, buildings constructed prior to April 30, 1998 shall
not be required to provide a key box or key boxes under this section. Any new
tenancy within a space previously occupied by a different compliant tenant
shall require that a key box be provided in accordance with divisions (A) and
(B) above. Existing buildings required to install a key box or key boxes by
this section shall not be in violation of this section until one year after the
effective date of this section.
   (E)   For all structures not addressed in divisions (A) through (C) above,
the Fire Chief and/or Building Inspector for the town shall require a Knox
Rapid Entry Emergency Key Box System in all new construction or redevelopment
of sites and properties and recommend voluntary compliance of this section in
existing occupancies in the following instances:
      (1)   Buildings, regardless of use or occupancy, containing six or more
occupancies within the same structure which uses a common external exit access;
      (2)   Any commercial or assembly structure without window openings and
over 40 feet in depth. Openings, which are obstructed or covered to the extent
that quick access or visibility to the inside is incorporated, shall not be
considered windows;
      (3)   All buildings and occupancies having or required to have a fire
alarm or sprinkler alarm system; or
      (4)   Hazardous materials information unit/location data unit: Each
location required under federal, state, county or local regulation to report
activities of on-site hazardous materials.
   (F)   (1)   The installation, for purposes of compliance, shall be required
from the date of execution of this section and first publication for all new
construction or redevelopment of sites and properties.
      (2)   For hazardous materials sites, if required under federal, state,
county or local regulation to report activities of on-site hazardous materials,
then the site must be in compliance within 60 days from the date of publication
of the ordinance codified in this section.
   (G)   (1)   The town’s Fire Department shall be responsible for approving
the location of the Knox Rapid Entry Emergency Key Box System on each site. The
box shall be at or near the recognized public entrance, adjacent to the fire
annunciator panel, on the exterior of the structure, or above the Fire
Department connection (FDC) when occupancy is serviced by a fire sprinkler
system with internal control valves and wall-mounted FDC. The box shall be at a
height of not less than six feet and not more than eight feet above final
grade.
      (2)   No steps, displays, signs or other fixtures or structure
protrusions shall be located under the box that would allow intruders to access
the box without assistance. The box shall be connected to the fire alarm
control panel, when provided. Tampering or opening of the box shall produce a
supervisory signal on the alarm control panel. The signal will be transmitted
through the panel as a supervisory signal.
   (H)   The key box shall contain the keys for the following, all of which
shall be labeled so as to be easily identified in the field:
      (1)   The main entrance door. Mixed occupancies and strip shopping center
keys shall be provided only for occupancies where system control valves or fire
alarm system panel exists;
      (2)   Alarm room (if one exists);
      (3)   Mechanical rooms, electrical rooms and sprinkler control rooms;
      (4)   Fire alarm control panel;
      (5)   Special keys to reset pull-stations or other fire protection
devices;
      (6)   Elevator keys (if required); and
      (7)   Other rooms as specified.
   (I)   The Fire Chief and the Building Inspector shall be responsible for the
administration of this section. All applications and permits for key boxes may
be obtained by the property owner, business owner, manager, management
companies or contractor from the Fire Department.
(Ord. 14, 2004, passed 7-20-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any firm, partnership, corporation, association, company or
organization of any kind that disposes of any type of waste by burning on its
premises or at any other location within its control.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce;
including all waste, all accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter,
meat, fish or fowl.
   LEAVES. One of the lateral expanded appendages of the stem of a plant,
commonly flat, thin and green in color and functioning as the principal area of
photosynthesis.
   PERSON. Any person who is a private citizen and not a business entity and is
acting as a homeowner or renter in and not on behalf of any firm, partnership,
corporation, association or business entity of any kind.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including but not limited to paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, woods, excelsior, furniture, bedding; non-combustible trash,
including but not limited to metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small
quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral
wastes; street rubbish including but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt,
catch-basin dirt, contents of litter receptacles excluding GARBAGE.
   WASTE. Includes GARBAGE, REFUSE, YARD RUBBISH or any other by-product of a
business.
   YARD RUBBISH. Includes all trimmings, however excluding all leaves and
plants and shrubs, discarded with the intention of removing the same from a
yard.
(Ord. 7, 2003, passed - -)
§ 92.16 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any business to burn leaves, plants or shrubs
within the corporate limits of the town. It shall be unlawful for any business
within the corporate limits of the town to have any open burning of waste that
emits embers or other debris into the air creating a health hazard or fire
hazard. Any business receiving notice of a violation under this section shall
be required to install an incinerator or other burning device which would keep
debris, embers and other fire hazards out of the air. All such incinerator or
burning devices must have screens or grates to entrap the flammable material
from emitting therefrom. Any business that violates the open burning policy
after receiving notice of the hazard set out above by the Fire Chief for the
town shall be subject to the fines and penalties set out in §
92.99 of this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves, plants or shrubs
within the corporate limits of the town. It shall be unlawful for any person to
burn any type of waste within the corporate limits of the town that emits
embers or other debris into the air creating a health hazard or fire hazard.
Any person receiving notice of a violation under this section shall be required
to install an incinerator or other burning device which would keep debris,
embers and other fire hazards out of the air. All such incinerator or burning
devices must have screens or grates to entrap the flammable material emitting
therefrom. Any person that violates the open burning policy after receiving
notice of the hazard set out above by the Fire Chief for the town shall be
subject to the fines and penalties set out in §
92.99 of this code.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to burn within the
corporate limits of the town, any waste between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to ignite or to burn
any trash, leaves, plants, shrubs or other waste on the surface of any improved
street, alley or thoroughfare within the town or on any right-of-way of the
town.
(Ord. 7, 2003, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief for the town may prohibit any or all bonfires and
outdoor rubbish fires, outdoor or incinerator burning or burning when
atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous. Notice
must be delivered in writing to any business or person before he, she or they
may be cited for violation of this subchapter for burning after the Fire Chief
has prohibited the same under this division (A).
   (B)   This subchapter may be enforced by the Town Marshal or the Deputy Town
Marshals, the Fire Chief or deputies of the Fire Chief approved by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 7, 2003, passed - -)
§ 92.18 BURNING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The town incorporates the open burning regulations of 326 I.A.C. 4-1-0.5
through 326 I.A.C. 4-2-2 and all amendments thereto. Any sections that are
inconsistent between the state’s open burning regulations and this subchapter
shall be interpreted to enforce the stricter of the two regulations.
(Ord. 7, 2003, passed - -)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.30 CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the current
adopted edition of the state’s Fire Prevention Code (675 I.A.C., Article 22)
and all amendments thereto and reference cited within said code.
   (B)   The town further orders, adjudges and decrees that all businesses and
public buildings within the town shall be required to have portable fire
extinguishers on their premises pursuant to National Fire Prevention
Association Standard For Portable Fire Extinguishers, 1988 Edition, a copy of
which is attached to the ordinance codified in this subchapter as Exhibit A.
BUSINESS and PUBLIC BUILDINGS shall be defined as any user under the town’s
zoning ordinance which would allow a business use whether under a variance,
zoning or actual zoning and will include both business and industrial uses
along with all buildings that are open to the general public. The standards for
the portable fire extinguishers will be as set out in Exhibit A, attached to he
ordinance codified herein, and the penalties and implementation and
administration of this shall be as set out in this subchapter.
(Ord. 7, 1989, passed - -1989; Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 92.31 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief and the deputies designated by the Fire Chief of the
town are hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the fire code adopted in §
92.30 of this code on behalf of the town within the jurisdiction of the town
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-2-9.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and those designated deputies for the town are hereby
authorized to enter upon property located within the town that is not a
residential structure and inspect said property and in any and all improvements
thereon for the purpose of enforcing said fire code.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner, or his or her designated representative,
shall assist the Fire Department in the inspection of buildings and structures
to provide minimum standards in design and construction and shall provide
reports of such inspection to the Fire Chief.
   (D)   The Police Chief for the town may, upon request of the Fire Chief or
his or her designated deputy, assign such available law enforcement officers as
may be necessary to assist the town’s Fire Department, Fire Chief or designated
deputy, in the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 7, 1989, passed - -1989; Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 92.32 STOP WORK NOTICE.
   (A)   Any work being done in a manner which would endanger life or property,
or violate the provisions of this subchapter or the state’s Fire Prevention
Code, the Fire Chief or designated deputies may order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such
work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the Fire Chief or designated deputies to proceed with the work.
   (B)   (1)   Any building or structure or equipment therein regulated by this
subchapter or the state’s Fire Prevention Code that is being used contrary to
the provisions of this subchapter, the Fire Chief or designated deputies may
order such use discontinued and the structure, or portion thereof, vacated by
notice served on any person causing such use to be continued.
      (2)   Such person shall discontinue the use within the time prescribed by
the Fire Chief or designated deputies after receipt of such notice to make the
structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this subchapter
and the state’s Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 7, 1989, passed - -1989; Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 92.33 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or his or her designated deputy shall investigate the
origin, cause and circumstances of any fire of unknown origin occurring within
the town. As far as is possible, the Fire Chief or his or her designated deputy
shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or is by design.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designated deputy shall investigate,
assist in the prosecution of and support suppression of, arson and other crimes
associated with the destruction or attempted destruction of property by fire in
the town, shall take immediate charge of physical evidence, notify any other
authority designated by law to assist in the investigation of such matters and
cooperate with such other authorities in the prosecution of the case.
(Ord. 7, 1989, passed - -1989; Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 92.34 APPLICATION TO BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter and the building and fire safety
rules of the state’s Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall apply
equally to new and existing buildings and conditions with the following
exceptions:
      (1)   Existing conditions which do not constitute a distinct hazard to
life or property; and
      (2)   The transportation of any articles or substance under the
jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations prescribed by the
military forces of the United States.
   (B)   Buildings built under and in full compliance with the building and
fire safety laws and rules in force at the time of construction or alteration
thereof, and that have been properly maintained and used for such use as
originally permitted, shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter
pertaining to any of the following matters:
      (1)   Fire protection of structural elements;
      (2)   Exits required, except as provided for existing buildings under
this subchapter; and
      (3)   Isolation of hazardous operations and mixed uses; provided,
however, that the Fire Chief shall require the installation of fire safety
devices or systems (fire extinguishers, fire alarms, fire detection devices or
similar systems) where they are necessary to provide safety to life. In lieu of
requiring the installation of safety devices or systems or when necessary to
secure safety in addition thereto, the Fire Chief shall prescribe limitations
on the handling and storage of materials or substances or upon operations that
are liable to cause fire, contribute to the spread of fire or endanger life or
property. Any orders issued by the Fire Chief to obtain compliance with this
division (B) shall be governed by the provisions of I.C. 36-8-17-9.
(Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 92.35 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW; APPEALS.
   (A)   A person who is aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to this
subchapter or under I.C. 36-8-17-9 shall have an opportunity to informally
discuss the order with the State Fire Marshal, who may modify or reverse the
order.
   (B)   An order issued pursuant to this subchapter or I.C. 36-8-17-9, or an
order affirmed or modified by the State Fire Marshal, may be appealed to the
state’s Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-3-1989)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND MOBILE HOMES. Any mobile home,
trailer or manufactured housing not meeting the standards in I.C. 36-7-4-1106
and all amendments thereto which is used for permanent occupancy to an
individual or individuals as a residence.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building that contains living quarters
for three or more occupancies including hotels, motels, boarding houses,
sleeping room house, buildings of mixed occupancy, having any residential
units, nursing homes, convalescent homes, licensed half-way houses or lodging
houses.
   SLEEPING AREA. The area of a unit in which bedrooms or sleeping rooms are
located. Bedrooms or sleeping rooms separated by another use area such as a
kitchen or living room are separated SLEEPING AREAS, but bedrooms or sleeping
rooms separated by a bathroom are not separate SLEEPING AREAS.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects particles or products of combustion
other than heat, approved by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. or Factory Mutual,
equipped with a test button, and may be either battery-powered, minimum nine
volt or 110 volt AC.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -)
§ 92.51 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   All multi-family dwelling units and all mobile home rentals shall be
equipped with smoke detectors.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -)
§ 92.52 LOCATION.
   Smoke detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall at a point centrally
located in the corridor or area giving access to the rooms used for sleeping
purposes. Where a common hallway is used, smoke detectors shall be spaced not
more than 25 feet apart in such hallway. All smoke detectors shall be located
either on the ceiling, not less than six inches from any wall, or on a wall,
not less than six nor more than 12 inches from the ceiling and within 15 feet
of all rooms used for sleeping purposes. No detector shall be recessed into the
ceiling.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -)
§ 92.53 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   If a smoke detector is AC-powered, it must be directly attached to a
junction box not controlled by any switch other than the main power supply. The
installation of AC-powered detectors shall conform to all electrical standards
adopted by the town.
   (B)   A smoke detector required under this subchapter shall be installed
according to the directions and specifications of the manufacturer, but if in
conflict with any town electrical standard, the town electrical standard shall
take precedence.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -)
§ 92.54 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper or remove any smoke
detector except when it is necessary for maintenance or inspection purposes.
   (B)   Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement must be re-
installed or replaced so that it is in place during normal sleeping hours. At
every change of tenant in every multiple-family dwelling unit or mobile home
rental, smoke detectors shall be tested to see that they are in operable
condition.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.55 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every owner, manager or agent of any multiple-family dwelling unit or mobile
home rental shall be responsible for the installation and maintenance of all
smoke detectors. This requirement applies to smoke detectors required by any
state or federal law as well as by this subchapter, unless otherwise required
by state or federal law.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -)
§ 92.56 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Between January 1 and January 31 each year, the owner of each dwelling
unit and mobile home in which a smoke detector has been installed shall certify
in writing on forms prescribed by the town’s Fire Department that the required
maintenance has been performed on all detectors in the owner’s units and that
the detectors are in good working condition as of the date of certification.
   (B)   Each owner shall certify to each new occupant of any dwelling unit and
mobile home covered by this subchapter that all smoke detectors required have
been installed and are in proper working condition.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -)
§ 92.57 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Inspector and the Fire Department of the town shall be charged
with the duty of enforcing the terms of this subchapter. All violations shall
be cited through the Town Court.
(Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §
92.03 of this code shall be cited into the Town Court as a violation of an
ordinance of the town. Each use of a public hydrant without the permission of
the town’s Fire Department shall be considered a separate violation.
      (2)   The penalty for violation of §
92.03 of this code shall be a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000
along with any damages to the hydrant, cost of water and any court costs.
   (C)   (1)   All violations of §
92.04 of this code shall be cited into the Town Court by written citation
issued by the Fire Department through its Fire Inspector.
      (2)   Fines for violation of §
92.04 of this code shall be not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
offense cited. The amount of the fine shall be based upon the severity of the
offense and whether or not this is a first offense or there have been prior
offenses.
   (D)   Violation of §
92.16 of this code is hereby declared to be punishable by a fine of not less
than $5 nor more than $200. Each violation shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. Actual damages along with the fine and court costs may be assessed for
violations under §
92.16(D) of this code when the town property has been so damaged and the actual
damages are itemized to the Town Court.
   (E)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
92.30 through
92.35 of this code, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Fire
Chief or designated deputy, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Fire Chief or designated deputy in connection with the
provisions of §§
92.30 through
92.35 of this code for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person,
firm or corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $10, nor more than
$50. Each day of such unlawful activity shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Anyone found in violation of §§
92.50 through
92.57 of this code, upon conviction, shall be fined in the amount of not less
than $25 nor more than $1,000 for each violation. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 7, 1989, passed - -1989; Ord. 8, 1989, passed - -; Ord. 10, 1989, passed
7-3-1989; Ord. 3-1993, passed - -; Ord. 7, 2003, passed - -; Ord. 14, 2004,
passed 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 93: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose and definitions
   
93.02   Permitted devices
   
93.03   Permit required
   
93.04   Application for permit
   
93.05   Inspection
   
93.06   Local alarms
   
93.07   Testing of equipment
   
93.08   False alarms
   
93.09   Revocation of permit
   
93.10   Disconnection
   
93.11   Alarm Fund
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to
reduce the number of false alarms activated by private emergency alarm systems
and to provide a more effective means of dealing with and servicing calls from
private emergency alarm systems.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALARM CONDITIONS. Alarms activated by unlawful violation of a user’s
property or other violations that the systems were designed to protect against,
acts of God, other violent conditions or by outside agencies or external forces
not under the control of the owner, lessee or his or her employee or agent.
      ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER. Any person, firm or corporation that sells,
leases, monitors or installs automatic protection devices or signaling devices
which transmit alarms upon receipt of a stimulus from a detection apparatus or
manually-operated system.
      ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices such as a solid state
unit, arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention
and to which the Police Department, Fire Department and/or emergency medical
services are expected to respond. ALARM SYSTEM does not include an alarm
installed on a vehicle. This definition does include alarms with an externally
audible alert that automatically shuts off after 15 minutes of sounding.
      ALARM USER. Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained,
operated or used within the town, except for alarm systems on motor vehicles.
Also included are those alarm systems which employ an audible signal emitting
sounds or a flashing light or beacon designed to alert or signal persons
outside the premises.
      CENTRAL STATION. A facility whose prime purpose is to monitor incoming
alarm signal 24 hours a day and relay the signal information to the appropriate
authorities.
      DIRECT LINE. A telephone line or other line leading directly into the
communications center of the Police Department that is for use only to report
signals on a person-to-person basis.
      FALSE ALARMS. The activation of an alarm system caused by improper
operation, negligence of the owner or lessee or his or her employee or agent or
equipment malfunction.
      LOCAL ALARMS. A signaling system which, when activated, causes an audible
and/or visual signaling device to be activated in or on the premises within
which the system is installed.
      ORDINANCE VIOLATION ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDING. A legal proceeding instituted
according to the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or society,
but such term does not include the town or any other governmental entity.
      POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Police Department or his or her authorized
representative.
      PUBLIC TRUNKLINE. A telephone line leading into the communications center
of the Police Department for the purpose of handling emergency and
administrative calls on a person-to-person basis.
      SIGNALING DEVICE. An electrically operated instrument which automatically
sends visual and/or audible signals to be registered by indicators at a monitor
panel at the receiving terminal or central station.
      TOWN. The Town of Mooresville, Indiana.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.02 PERMITTED DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall use or cause or permit to be used an alarm system
utilizing signaling devices that automatically select a public trunkline of the
town’s Police Department and then reproduce any pre-recorded message to report
any robbery, burglary, fire or other emergency. No person shall use or cause or
permit to be used an alarm system utilizing an automatic signaling device
through a public trunkline of the town’s Police Department that does not
automatically disengage upon answering the signal.
   (B)   With the exception of local alarms, only signaling devices shall be
permitted to be installed in the town for the purpose of reporting any robbery,
burglary, fire, medical emergencies or other emergency to the Police Department
of the town.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No alarm user shall install, operate or maintain an alarm system in
the town without first obtaining a permit as required below.
   (B)   Any alarm user who operates an alarm system without first obtaining
authorization as required by this section, or who, after having an
authorization revoked, fails to disconnect his or her alarm system, shall be in
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for permits to install, maintain and operate an alarm
system (alarm user permit) shall be filed with the Police Chief of the town and
thereafter renewable on an annual basis by the first of the month that the
initial permit was issued each year.
   (B)   The alarm user applying for the authorization required shall state on
the application form his or her name, the address of the business or business
in or upon which the alarm system has been or will be installed, his or her
telephone number, the type of alarm system (local, burglar-signaling device,
holdup-signaling device, fire-signaling device, medical-signaling device), the
alarm equipment supplier selling, installing, monitoring, inspecting,
responding to and/or maintaining the alarm system and the name and telephone
number of at least two other persons (in the case of a corporate alarm user
applicant, at least three persons) who can be reached at any time, day or
night, and who can open the premises in which the system is installed.
   (C)   The alarm user shall update any changes in the name, residence,
address or phone number of the person or persons who can be reached at any time
who is authorized to deal with police authorities and who can open the premises
in which the system is installed. The information contained in an alarm user
authorization application required by this section and other information
received by the Police Chief through correspondence, or communications with an
alarm user, shall be securely maintained and restricted to inspection only by
the Police Chief or town employees specifically assigned the responsibility for
handling and processing alarm user authorizations in the town. Town officials
and employees assigned the foregoing duties shall not knowingly or willfully
reveal the information contained in an alarm user authorization application or
in correspondence or communications with an alarm user to any other person for
any purpose not related to this chapter or official law enforcement matters
without the express written consent of the alarm user supplying such
information.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall approve such application if the Police Chief
finds that the alarm equipment does comply with the standard of the
Underwriters Laboratories, the National Fire Protection Association, Factory
Mutual, Canadian Standards Association, or equal. At the time the Police Chief
approves the application for an alarm user permit, he or she will authorize the
Clerk-Treasurer to collect the appropriate fee and issue an insignia with the
permit number which shall be displayed in a conspicuous area on the property or
as specifically directed by the Police Chief. An alarm user permit shall be
personal to the holder and is not transferable. The fee for an alarm user
permit shall be $25 annually.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.05 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police or his or her duly appointed representative (including a
representative of the town’s Fire Department) shall have the right to inspect
any alarm system on the premises where it is intended to be used, both prior to
and subsequent to the issuance of a permit or at any other reasonable time to
determine, whether a permit should be granted and whether the system is being
used in conformity with the terms of the permit and the provisions of this
chapter. Such inspection is in no manner a guarantee of the alarm system or how
it will function but is merely intended to see if the system is in general
compliance with this chapter. Such inspection is not mandatory nor required by
the town. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the alarm user to make
sure the system is installed properly, maintained properly and kept in good
operating order.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.06 LOCAL ALARMS.
   Local alarms with an externally audible alert shall not make a sound similar
to that of emergency management warning systems, and such alarms in residential
districts must have an automatic shut off after 15 minutes of sounding.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.07 TESTING OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No alarm system designed to transmit alarm conditions directly to the
Police Department shall be tested or demonstrated without first obtaining
permission from the Police Department. Permission is not required to test or
demonstrate alarm devices not transmitting alarm conditions directly to the
Police Department unless the alarm conditions are to be relayed to the Police
Department.
   (B)   Failure to notify the Police Department prior to testing an alarm
system shall constitute a false alarm.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Any alarm user having false alarms at a specific site within a
calendar year may be subject to an ordinance violation enforcement proceeding
by the town and/or loss of permit, depending on the number of false alarms at
that specific site emitted from an alarm system location within the calendar
year, based upon the following schedule:
 
Number
of     Action Taken
False
Alarms
1-3    Either a written notice of a false alarm or a warning letter
4-5    Filing of an ordinance violation enforcement proceeding or notice of a
       violation
6-10   Filing of an ordinance violation enforcement proceeding or notice of a
       violation and notice of possible revocation or suspension of permit
Above  Filing of an ordinance violation enforcement proceeding and notice of
10     revocation or suspension of permit and a mandatory inspection as listed in §
       93.05 of this code.
 
   (B)   All suspensions shall be at the discretion of the Police Chief of the
town, and reinstatement of permits shall likewise be at the discretion of the
Police Chief, based upon evidence that the problems with the false reports have
been cured. The failure to pay fines pursuant to this section shall also
likewise constitute grounds for revocation of the permit granted pursuant to
this chapter. In the event of a suspension the Police Chief shall give a
written notice 15 days prior to the suspension, and during the time period, the
alarm user shall be allowed to show what reasonable steps have been taken to
eliminate or reduce the false alarms, and if sufficient steps have been taken,
the Police Chief shall delay the suspension of the permit as long as no false
alarms are reported within the next 30 days. This shall not relieve the alarm
user from the payment of any fees for false alarms or other responsibilities
under this chapter, and in the event of an additional false alarm within this
time period, the Police Chief shall review the permit and make a determination
of the status of the permit pursuant to this section and either terminate the
permit or grant the alarm user an additional 15 days to discover and eliminate
the cause or causes of the false alarms.
   (C)   Any alarm user having failed to obtain a permit as required under §
93.04 of this code or who has failed to display the insignia with the permit
number on it as required under §
93.04 of this code shall be subject to an ordinance violation enforcement
proceeding. This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Chief of the town, any
police officer of the town or duly appointed representatives including the
town’s Fire Department representative who shall have the authority to file an
ordinance violation enforcement proceeding in the Town Court.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   False alarms on more than ten dates in one calendar year from any
alarm system (at one specific site) for which alarm user authorization has been
obtained, six or more false alarms in any six-month period (at one specific
site) or failure to pay the fine pursuant to §
93.08 of this code may constitute grounds for revocation of the permit granted
subject to provisions of this section.
   (B)   After the Police Department has recorded false alarms on four dates in
any 90-day consecutive period from any authorized user at one specific site, it
shall notify the authorized alarm user (with a copy to the alarm equipment
supplier), specifically those persons authorized to deal with police
authorization and inform them of the facts and ask that they, within 15 days,
submit a written report describing efforts to discover and eliminate the cause
or causes of the false alarms. If the authorized alarm user fails to submit a
report within 15 days or such longer period as the Police Chief may reasonably
grant, or if by said report the alarm user fails to show that he or she has
taken or will take reasonable steps to eliminate or reduce false alarms, the
Police Chief may revoke the alarm user’s authorization.
   (C)   When alarm conditions are received by the Police Department that
evidence a failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Police
Chief is authorized to demand that the owner or lessee of such device or his or
her representative disconnect such device until it is made to comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The Police Chief may revoke or suspend any permit issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter after giving written notice to the alarm user
and an opportunity for the alarm user to effect compliance within 15 days if he
or she determines that the alarm system under said permit has been installed,
maintained or operated in violation of this chapter, or of any term or
condition of said permit, or if any fine is unpaid.
   (E)   An alarm system user whose authorization has been revoked is not
precluded under this section from applying for a new authorization pursuant to
§
93.04 of this code. Provided, however, that before a new permit is issued, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall have a report from the Police Chief, and in addition, all
fines due must be paid and the system corrected from any deficiencies. Before
the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a new permit, the Police Chief shall make
reasonable efforts to determine that the alarm user’s system has been properly
serviced and its deficiencies corrected. The Police Chief shall notify the
Clerk-Treasurer that the alarm system meets all requirements and that the
system has been corrected from its previous deficiencies and upon all fines
being paid, the Clerk-Treasurer shall then issue a new permit, provided all
requirements of §
93.04 of this code are complied with.
   (F)   Any person affected by the Police Chief’s order to disconnect or by
the Police Chief’s refusal to certify to the Clerk-Treasurer that the system
currently meets all requirements shall have the right to request the Town
Council to review the decision or action taken by the Police Chief by
requesting review within ten days after any adverse action or decision has been
made by the Police Chief. The Town Council is given the authority to either
affirm, modify or reverse any decision made by the Police Chief.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 DISCONNECTION.
   In the event the town finds it necessary to order a defective alarm system
disconnected, the town shall incur no liability by such action to the extent
allowed by law.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.11 ALARM FUND.
   There is hereby created an Alarm Fund of the town. The Alarm Fund is
established to receive all fees, fines and other monies collected by the town
under the provisions of this chapter. The Town Council shall appropriate from
the Alarm Fund all monies necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
This shall include, but is not limited to, personnel, office supplies and
expenses, computer equipment, computer software and programs, postage and the
like.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, refuses to comply with or resists enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction be fined not less than $25 and
no more than the amount permitted under I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B) for each such
violation, act or omission or offense. Each day that a violation is permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any section of this chapter in lieu of being
charged for said violation in Town Court or a court of competent jurisdiction
may pay, within five days after receiving notice of a violation, to the Clerk-
Treasurer the sum of $25 provided, however, if said amount is not paid within
five days after being advised of the violation of his or her right to pay in
lieu of being charged, said personal shall be charged with the violation in
accordance with the law in Town Court or a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any person charged with a violation of this chapter may be granted a
two-week continuance to pay the amount to the Clerk-Treasurer before being
charged with a violation in Town Court or a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided the continuance is granted in writing either by the Clerk-Treasurer or
by the Police Chief of the town. Any person paying to the Clerk-Treasurer the
fine as called for herein within the time allowed or any extension allowed,
shall not be subject to the per day violation provision of this chapter. It
shall be the duty of the Police Department to furnish a copy of the ordinance
enforcement document to the Clerk-Treasurer within 72 hours after the issuance
of the ordinance enforcement document.
   (D)   All fees, fines and other monies collected by the town under the
provisions of this chapter shall be deposited into the Alarm Fund of the town
as revenues and shall be deemed a reimbursement to the town for its expenses in
the issuance of licenses and the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 8, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Hours
   
94.03   Firearms and explosive devices
   
94.04   Prohibited persons and conduct
   
94.05   Fires
   
94.06   Animals
   
94.07   Motorized vehicles and driving areas
   
94.08   Picnics and shelter use
   
94.09   Parades and meetings in parks
   
94.10   Noise levels
   
94.11   Camping; sleeping
   
94.12   Begging; gambling
   
94.13   Alcohol, narcotics and sale of alcoholic beverages
   
94.14   Use of tobacco
   
94.15   Advertising
   
94.16   Sales within parks
   
94.17   Dangerous activities
   
94.18   Metal detecting
   
94.19   Playgrounds and the like
   
94.20   Swimming pools
   
94.21   National resources and materials
   
94.22   Schedules; fees
   
94.23   Regulating uses of parks
   
94.24   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The town’s Parks and Recreation Board.
   DEPARTMENT. The town’s Parks and Recreation Division as authorized by I.C.
36-10-3.
   EMPLOYEE. The Superintendent and other personnel of the Department.
   INJURE. To write upon, cut, mutilate, despoil, deface, damage, remove, pull,
pluck, break, trample, bend, dredge, excavate, dig or destroy, in any manner
any property or directly or indirectly deposit any substance material upon any
property, including without implied limitation earth, stone, impure liquids,
chemicals, waste, trash, rubbish, metal, wood, rubber, glass or plastic.
   PARK and PARK PROPERTY. Property owned, leased or controlled by the
Department and/or the Board, including any property upon which a concession has
been granted.
   PROPERTY. Includes all real and personal park property, including, but not
limited to, any building, structure, road, swimming or wading pool, equipment,
fountain, fence, bench, masonry, statue, ornament, structure, tree, shrub,
plant, vine, hedge, flower, fruit, fixture or appurtenance.
   TIME. Eastern standard time, or whatever standard time zone may hereafter be
prescribed for this state and town. Daylight saving time, whenever authorized
by law and while it remains in effect, shall be the time herein prescribed.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 94.02 HOURS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, park property shall be
open to the public from 30 minutes before sunrise until 30 minutes after sunset
every day. Park property shall be closed to the public from 30 minutes after
sunset each day until 30 minutes before sunrise the following day.
   (B)   The Board may, by resolution, without the necessity of amending this
chapter, establish other hours during which park property, or any parts
thereof, shall be open or closed to the public. The Board may periodically
revise the hours provided. However, that notice of change in hours shall be
posted at the applicable park or park location.
   (C)   The Board or the Superintendent may close one or more district parks,
buildings and facilities or any part thereof to the public at any time and for
any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular intervals, and either
entirely or merely to certain uses, as deemed advisable and in the best
interest of the public and district.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 94.03 FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   Crossbows, bow and arrows, BB guns, sling shots, pellet guns, missile-
propelling devices, fireworks, bombs or other explosive devices, knives,
paintball equipment or any other similar objects are strictly prohibited in any
park for any reason.
   (B)   Except when acting in self-defense, as the term is defined under state
law, no person shall discharge a firearm within a park or on park property.
This prohibition does not prohibit the possession/use of the following items in
the following situations:
      (1)   Kitchen utensils customarily used for food preparation or dining
used by or under the supervision of adults;
      (2)   Knives, hatchets or axes used on wood, kindling or other material
brought into a park by scouts or other groups upon written permission from the
Department;
      (3)   Firearms in any park by a law enforcement officer or federal
enforcement officer as those terms are defined in the state code; and
      (4)   Firework displays by a group permitted by the Department and the
town’s Fire Department.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PROHIBITED PERSONS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Individuals listed on the state’s sex offender registry published and
disseminated by the state’s Criminal Justice Institute are prohibited from all
parks and other recreational areas in the town.
   (B)   No person shall while upon park property use profane, obscene, lewd,
threatening or abusive language or fight, quarrel or throw any stone or missile
or behave in a loud or disorderly manner, or commit any offense against
decency, or good morals, or contrary to law.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 FIRES.
   No person shall use or build a fire on park property for any purpose, unless
expressly provided by other rules and regulations of the Board governing the
use of outdoor ovens or other such uses and the designation of locations for
fires.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Protection of animals. No person shall pursue, hurt, touch, injure,
kill, catch, poison, abuse, chase, shoot, throw or propel objects at, endanger
in any way or remove or cause to be removed, have in his or her possession or
release or cause to be released, any wildlife on or upon park property, except
with written permission of the Department.
   (B)   Hunting or trapping. No persons shall hunt or trap in or on, or bring
any device for hunting or trapping into or onto park property, unless with
written permission of the Department.
   (C)   Trespassing animals or fowls.
      (1)   No person, being the owner of or having control of the same,
without written permission of the Board, shall permit any chickens, ducks,
geese, swan, hogs, cattle, horses, sheep, goats or any other animals or fowls,
to stray into, or to run at large or unattended, or trespass upon any park
property.
      (2)   Any animals or fowls, straying into, running at large, unattended
or trespassing in park property may be impounded by the Department and if not
reclaimed and the costs thereof, including any damages caused by such animals,
paid for by the owners, within three days of receipt of a bill of costs. The
animals may be sold, as in the disposal of stray animals.
   (D)   Horseback riding. No person shall ride, lead or drive a horse, mule or
donkey on any park property unless by permit by the Park Board.
   (E)   Pets. All dogs, cats or other animals shall be properly restrained
when on park property. Such animals are properly restrained when secured by a
leash or lead and under the physical control of the animals owner or attending
party.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND DRIVING AREAS.
   Use of trucks, cars, motorbikes, motor-scooters, motorcycles, mini-bikes,
go-carts and any other form of motorized vehicles upon park property may be
restricted, prohibited or regulated, in any manner deemed necessary by the
Board for the public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PICNICS AND SHELTER USE.
   (A)   Picnics may be held in any park without a permit unless prohibited by
signs or otherwise prohibited by the Park Board.
   (B)   Shelter houses may be reserved or the Board may issue a permit
therefor upon such conditions as the Board by rule and regulation may
determine.
      (1)   No person, who is not invited or included by the sponsors thereof,
shall intrude himself or herself upon a shelter house without the consent of
those in charge, or disturb any use thereof under such reservation or permit.
      (2)   The Board shall adopt such rules and regulations as necessary for
compelling persons holding picnics or eating anything within any park to clean
up the ground and remove, or dispose of, all food, paper, litter and other
debris before quitting the same.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 PARADES AND MEETINGS IN PARKS.
   No person shall use any park property for conducting or taking part in any
parade or in any meeting of any organization without a permit issued by the
Department. The Chantanqua Assembly shall be granted such permit as required by
law and subject to regulations of the Board.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 NOISE LEVELS.
   The Board shall provide regulations to restrict the use of loud speakers and
other devices, so that such sound therefrom shall cover only the area where
such picnic, public forum or meeting is conducted and shall not unduly
interfere with the use of said park for other purposes in the areas set aside
therefor.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 94.11 CAMPING; SLEEPING.
   No person shall sleep in or on park property, except in such places and at
such times as may be designated therefor and pursuant to a permit issued by the
Department.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 BEGGING; GAMBLING.
   No person shall gamble or beg on park property.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 ALCOHOL, NARCOTICS AND SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Intoxication. No person shall be allowed on park property in a state
of intoxication caused by the person’s use of alcohol or a controlled substance
(as defined in I.C. 35-48-1-9). Refer to I.C. 7.1-5-1-3.
   (B)   Possession and consumption. No person shall possess, bring upon or
consume any alcoholic beverages or controlled substance on park property,
except as permitted in division (C) below.
   (C)   Sale of alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, a person or entity
shall be allowed to dispense, serve or consume alcoholic beverages on park
property at special events recognized by the Park Board and for which a permit
has been approved by the Park Board and issued by the Park Superintendent for
such event and purposes. Such permit shall only be issued upon proof by the
applicant of the existence of adequate insurance coverage required by its
liquor license and state law and naming the town’s Park District and the town
as additional insureds on such certificate of insurance.
      (2)   The Town Council or Park Board may approve the sale of alcohol at
events held at Bicentennial Park. Permits shall be required and only be issued
upon proof by the applicant of the existence of adequate insurance coverage
required by its liquor license and state law and naming the town’s Park
District and the town as additional insureds on such certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 USE OF TOBACCO.
   The use of tobacco products is prohibited on all park property.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall, upon park property, paint, post or otherwise affix any
advertisements or advertising signs without first having obtained written
permission therefor from the Board.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 SALES WITHIN PARKS.
   No person shall, upon park property, sell, offer for sale or barter, any
goods, wares or merchandise of any kind whatsoever without first having
obtained a concession, which concession shall be given upon approval of the
Board and a permit from the Department.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 DANGEROUS ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person shall drive golf balls, fly motor planes, throw objects,
practice archery or participate in any other games or activities which may be
hazardous to others, upon park property, except in such areas designated and
posted for such activities.
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within any park to use or
erect such equipment as booths, air-filled devices and tethered items such as
hot-air balloons, except in accord with a permit issued by the Department.
   (C)   It is strictly prohibited for any person within any park to use a
drone in violation of federal law.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 METAL DETECTING.
   Use of metal detectors on any park property is strictly prohibited, except
in accord with a permit issued by the Department.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 PLAYGROUNDS AND THE LIKE.
   The Board may establish, control, maintain and regulate playgrounds and
recreation centers, swimming and wading pools and provide and maintain all
necessary equipment, supplies, building sand structures therefor. The Board
shall supervise and provide employees for the operation of all such facilities.
The Board may adopt rules and regulations concerning the same and no person
shall violate such rule if posted.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 SWIMMING POOLS.
   The operation of the swimming pools shall abide by all rules and regulations
of the state’s and county’s Board of Health. The Board may adopt rules and
regulations concerning the same, and no such person shall violate such rule if
posted.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 NATURAL RESOURCES AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Preservation of natural resources.
      (1)   No person shall remove any soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs,
plants or any other natural resources from any park.
      (2)   No person shall damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree
or injure the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant in any
park except in accord with a specific permit issued by the Department. It is
permissible to harvest ripe fruit, nuts or mushrooms, except in areas
specifically designated and posted as “no harvest” areas.
      (3)   No person shall damage, deface or injure by any means any grass
areas, or in any way disturb the existing environment or usefulness of any
public area.
   (B)   Dealing with vegetation and natural material.
      (1)   It is strictly prohibited for any person to knowingly plant,
deposit, cultivate, place or remove within any park any vegetation or seed
therefrom, except in accord with a specific permit issued by the Department.
      (2)   It is strictly prohibited for any person to displace, excavate,
carry away or otherwise remove or modify the arrangement of any soil, sand,
gravel, stone rock, asphalt or other ground surface material within any park,
except in accord with specific permit issued by the Department.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 SCHEDULES; FEES.
   Schedules for operation of and the activities to be conducted on park
property and the amount of facility, permit and program fees may be reviewed
and approved periodically by the Board. As permitted by law, fees charged to
nonresidents of the district need not be the same as fees charged to residents
of the district.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 94.23 REGULATING USES OF PARKS.
   (A)   The Board is hereby authorized to provide for, regulate, set aside and
allocate the use by persons, vehicles and animals on all park property, but
without being limited to such classifications, for and into the following
general classes of uses and purposes:
      (1)   Activity areas including: Baseball diamonds; football fields;
footrace courses; tennis and squash courts; handball alleys; softball diamonds;
basketball courts; bowling greens; horse-shoe courts; boating and skating;
bathing houses; swimming and wading pools; and any other kinds of athletic
fields, recreation areas and uses; with all buildings and structures and
equipment appurtenant thereto;
      (2)   Picnic and recreation areas, including tables and outdoor ovens and
shelter houses;
      (3)   Walking trails and roads;
      (4)   Public meeting areas. In these areas, public meetings and public
forums may be permitted for any lawful purpose or use, after obtaining a permit
from the Department; and
      (5)   Concerts, exhibitions and theatrical performances.
   (B)   The Board is hereby authorized to restrict or set aside areas of the
parks, including entire parks, upon specified and reasonably limited occasions
or periods of time, for any or all of the above designated purposes, or for
some special purposes including concerts, theatrical performances, exhibitions
of fireworks and may prohibit the use of any or all such areas by other persons
at any such times, except for such use thereof which his or her prescribed and
then allowed for any such area.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 94.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Board to see that all provisions of this code
are followed. Prosecutions may be instituted by the Board, its Superintendent
or other town employee, or may be referred to the Town Attorney and shall be
conducted as provided by statute.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter for which no other specific penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and no more
than $2,500. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Grave pricing
   
95.02   Interment
   
95.03   Decorations
§ 95.01 GRAVE PRICING.
   (A)   The sum of $440 shall be charged for the opening and closing of adult
grave sites, and, in addition, the sum of $220 over and above the $440 for
services performed on Sunday, holiday work or emergency work where short notice
is given.
   (B)   The sum of $660 shall be charged for the removal of an existing adult
grave. The sum of $480 shall be charged for the removal of an existing child’s
grave and the sum of $300 shall be charged for the removal of an existing
cremation grave.
   (C)   The sum of $320 shall be charged for the opening and closing of infant
grave sites, and, in addition, the sum of $160 over and above the $320 for
services performed on Sunday, holiday work or emergency work where short notice
is given.
   (D)   The sum of $200 shall be charged for cremation urns, and, in addition,
the sum of $100 over and above the $200 for services performed on Sunday,
holiday work or emergency work where short notice is given.
(Res. 2, 2003, passed 2-4-2003)
§ 95.02 INTERMENT.
   Every earth interment in the Town Cemetery shall be made in an outer burial
container of sufficient strength and durability to constitute permanent support
for the weight of the internal burial casket.
(Ord. 7, 1999, passed 5-4-1999)
§ 95.03 DECORATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to the Town Cemetery.
   (A)   All decorations shall be removed by the caretakers after April 14
unless the decorations are on top of stones or hanging baskets above the
ground.
   (B)   Memorial Day decorations shall stay in the Town Cemetery until the
following June 15.
   (C)   No decorations shall be permitted in the Town Cemetery that are more
than six inches from the base of a marker.
   (D)   All decorations put on grave sites after October 1 of the year shall
remain until April 14 of the following year, at which time all of said
decorations shall be cleaned up.
(Res. 2-1986, passed 5-20-1986)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practice
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
96.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
96.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
96.09   Exemptions
   
96.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY. With respect to an individual:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits at least
one of the major life activities of the individual;
      (2)   A record of an impairment described in division (1) above; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having an impairment described in division (1)
above.
(I.C. 22-9-5-6)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04 through
96.08 of this code or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or
      (2)   Any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9) with the status of
such FAMILY being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS above.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
96.09 of this code and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination
in the sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
96.04 of this code shall apply to all dwellings, except as exempted by division
(B) below and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
96.04 of this code shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04(C) of this code, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designated or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03 of this code and except as exempted by §
96.03(B) and §
96.09 of this code, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national original; or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person, if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling;
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   Premises within such dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
         (d)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for
Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically
handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the
requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3. above; or
         (e)   Nothing in this division (F)(3) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health and safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans, or providing other financial
assistance for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or secured by residential real estate; or
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership, or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by
§§
96.03 through
96.06 of this code.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with the following shall be in violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the
same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in
such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor
shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means
housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist an
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 96.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Town Council or its designated
representative.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Town
Council shall refer all said complaints to the Commission, as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Town Council and the Commission to further such
purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council or its designated representative shall provide
information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting such information.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B) Any person violating §
96.08 of this code shall be fined according to local, state and federal law;
and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned
not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to
imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 6, 2010, passed 4-20-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
111.   TAXICABS
      
112.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Coin-operated business establishments
   
110.02   Liquor retailers’ permit
Itinerant Merchants and Solicitors
   
110.15   General regulations
   
110.16   Definitions
   
110.17   Exceptions
   
110.18   License required
   
110.19   Hours limited
   
110.20   License fee exemption
Street Vendors
   
110.35   Definition
   
110.36   License requirements
   
110.37   Application for license
   
110.38   Insurance requirement
   
110.39   Registration of drivers
   
110.40   Hours of operation
   
110.41   License fees
   
110.42   Revocation or suspension of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 COIN-OPERATED BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   If any property owner or any owner, operator or manager of any
business establishment in which is situated coin-operated equipment shall keep
the same open to the public as a business establishment at any time without
having therein a competent employee in charge of said establishment, said
property owner, operator or manager shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   However, this section shall not be deemed to include a coin-operated
vending machine situated outside the confines of any building and plainly
visible from the street or highway adjacent thereto.
(Ord. 3-1961, passed 2-7-1961) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 LIQUOR RETAILERS’ PERMIT.
   The Town Council consents that liquor retailers’ permits, Class B, may be
issued to applicants otherwise duly qualified under the provisions of the
applicable statutes relating to the issuance of licenses for the sale and
consumption of spiritous beverages.
(Ord. 4-1968, passed 2-20-1968)
ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
§ 110.15 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person, business organization or corporation to
engage in the solicitation of business as an itinerant merchant or as a
solicitor as hereinafter defined in this subchapter within the corporate limits
of the town, until the provisions of this subchapter shall have first been
complied with.
(Ord. 17-1994, passed 11-1-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, or other legal entity who engages
temporarily in the making or selling of any kind of goods, wares or
merchandise, including but not limited to the making and selling of
photographs, the growing of fruits or vegetables, dry goods or any other type
of material offered for retail sale or distribution within the town, regardless
of whether such goods, wares or merchandise are peddled from house to house,
sold upon the public streets or other public places or sold from any room,
building or structure, or lot rented or leased for the purpose of carrying on
such business, or from any type of motor home.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house, or from place to place
within the corporate limits of the town, selling or taking orders for goods,
wares or merchandise or any article for future delivery, or who solicits
information.
(Ord. 17-1994, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 110.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply and specifically excepts the following
persons, business organizations or corporations:
   (A)   Solicitors selling for local merchants or local manufacturers which
have their primary place of business within the corporate limits within the
town;
   (B)   Civic and charitable organizations actively functioning within the
corporate limits of the town;
   (C)   Students and other school personnel of any public or private school
within the corporate limits of the town;
   (D)   Sales to dealers by commercial business representatives; or
   (E)   Sales by producers of farm or dairy products.
(Ord. 17-1994, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 110.18 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person, business, organization or corporation not specifically
herein excluded, desiring to engage in the business of an itinerant merchant or
solicitor, as defined in §
110.16 of this code, shall make application in writing to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer for a license at such times as the office of the Clerk-Treasurer is
open for business.
   (B)   Such application shall state the name of the applicant; the
organization he or she represents; residence of the applicant; the place where
such business is to be conducted; the kind of goods to be sold; the length of
time for which the license is desired; and the price to be charged for any item
or items offered for sale.
   (C)   Upon the filing of such application, the following license fee shall
be charged by the Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   For one day but not more than six days: $5 per day; and
      (2)   For more than seven days, but less than 31 days: $30 per week and
an additional $25 for any fractional week after the first seven days.
   (D)   All such license fees shall be paid in advance as well as any renewal
thereof.
(Ord. 17-1994, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 110.19 HOURS LIMITED.
   Solicitation by an itinerant merchant and/or solicitor for himself or
herself, the business firm or the corporation he or she represents shall be
limited to the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 7:00 p.m. for each calendar day.
(Ord. 17-1994, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 110.20 LICENSE FEE EXEMPTION.
   Any person exempted by the laws of the state from the payment of license
fees shall, before beginning such business, present to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
credentials and identification showing that such person is entitled to such
exemption, if any.
(Ord. 17-1994, passed 11-1-1994)
STREET VENDORS
§ 110.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person using a motor vehicle or other mode of
transportation designed and used to sell products from said vehicle from the
streets, alleys or other public highways within the town, which are not
operated over any definite route.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.36 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation to operate
or cause to be operated, any vehicle or other modes of transportation for the
purpose of street vending, as the same is defined in §
110.35 of this code, upon and over the streets, alleys or other public highways
of the town unless such person, partnership or corporation shall have first
obtained a license to do so and shall have in other respects conformed to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.37 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring such a license shall
make a verified application therefor in writing and shall pay the license fee
herein after prescribed, and such application shall give the name of the
applicant and his or her place of residence, the number and description of the
vehicles proposed to be used by the applicant; and shall state the amount of
liability insurance carried or to be carried by the applicant to ensure the
payment of any final judgment that might be rendered for damages to persons or
property resulting from negligent or unlawful operation of the vehicles, or
either of them, within the town.
   (B)   No license shall be issued until the applicant shall have filed the
insurance policies obtained by him or her with the Clerk-Treasurer. If such
policies are found by the Clerk-Treasurer to conform to the requirements of
this subchapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give the applicant a receipt
therefor and shall safely keep the same in his or her official custody.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38 INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No insurance policy shall be accepted by the Clerk-Treasurer unless it shall
provide indemnity of not less than $100,000 because of bodily injury to or
death of one person, as the result of any one accident; or of not less than
$300,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons, as the
result of any one accident; and no policy shall be accepted unless it shall
provide indemnity of not less than $10,000 because of injury to or destruction
of any property of others as the result of any one accident, and said insurance
shall contain a provision that the town shall be entitled to ten days notice
before any cancellation of said policies shall be effective.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.39 REGISTRATION OF DRIVERS.
   (A)   The licensee of any street vendor licensed under this subchapter shall
employ none except skillful and experienced drivers who shall be licensed as
provided by the laws of this state, and the list of the names and places of
residence of such drivers shall be furnished on January 1 of each year to the
Clerk-Treasurer and kept on file by him or her in his or her office.
   (B)   A registration fee of $1 per year shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer
for each driver registered under this section. Each such registration hereunder
shall terminate on December 31 of each year.
   (C)   In the event any driver is disabled or quits the service of his or her
employer, substitute drivers may be employed, but in such case, the names of
such substitute drivers shall be filed and registered with the Clerk-Treasurer
within 48 hours after he or she begins work.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.40 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No street vendor under the terms of this subchapter shall operate on or over
any street, alley or public highway within the limits of the town after 8:00
p.m. and are to observe and obey all rules of the road as specified in the
statues of the state, and music or other methods of attracting attention shall
not be used upon said vehicles while in motion.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.41 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fees to be charged and collected under this subchapter shall be
the sum of $15 per year for each vehicle used and licensed under the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.42 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Street vendor licenses may be revoked and the right to operate
suspended for any violation by any operator or his or her employee of any of
the provisions of this subchapter, or for the violation of any penal statues of
the state.
   (B)   The convenience of the public being of paramount importance, owners
and/or operators of street vendors licensed pursuant to this subchapter shall
give good, efficient and sufficient service to persons desiring their products
within the limits of said town, and a failure to do so shall be sufficient
grounds for the revocation or suspension of his or her license.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone found guilty of violating §
110.01 of this code shall be fined in a sum of not less than $10 and not more
than $25. Each day said violation shall occur shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (C)   Violations of §§
110.15 through
110.20 of this code are punishable by a fine of not less than $50, nor more
than $200. Each day during which any person, business firm or corporation
engaged in the business of an itinerant merchant or solicitor operating in
violation of the provisions of §§
110.15 through
110.20 of this code shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person found guilty of violating §§
110.35 through
110.42 of this code shall be fined, for the first offense, not less than $5 and
not more than $25 and for any subsequent offense, not less than $10 and not
more than $50.
(Ord. 3-1961, passed 2-7-1961; Ord. 4, passed 5-2-1966; Ord. 17-1994, passed
11-1-1994)
CHAPTER 111: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Insurance requirements
   
111.03   Taximeter requirements
   
111.04   Rate of fare displayed
Licensing
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Application
   
111.17   Registration of drivers
   
111.18   Number of licenses to be issued
   
111.19   Revocation or suspension
   
111.20   License fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle designed or constructed to accommodate or
transport passengers, not more than six in number, exclusive of the driver, the
principal operation of which is confined to the corporate limits of the town,
and not operating over any definite route and the destination of which is
designated by the passenger or passengers at the time of such transportation.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 111.02 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No insurance policy shall be accepted by the Clerk-Treasurer unless it shall
provide indemnity of not less than $100,000 because of bodily injury or death
of one person, as the result of any one accident; or of not less than $300,000
because of bodily injury to or death or two or more persons, as the result of
any one accident; and no policy shall be accepted unless it shall provide
indemnity of not less than $50,000 because of injury to or destruction of any
property of others as the result of any one accident.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 111.03 TAXIMETER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or permit to be
operated in the town, any taxicab on a distance tariff or to transport
passengers in, or offer for hire any taxicab unless said vehicle be equipped
with a taximeter that has been approved for mechanical accuracy by the Chief of
Police or a police officer designated by him or her to so inspect. It shall be
unlawful for any person to own, operate or drive a taxicab as herein defined
unless such taximeter is used in determining the fare to be charged, and no
other or different fare shall be charged than is recorded on the reading face
of said taximeter for the trip, except that the hourly rates may be used by
previous arrangement with passengers after the meter has registered an amount
equal to the first hour conforming. No other method of figuring rates or
measuring distance shall be allowed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate or drive any taxicab equipped with a
taximeter in public service with the case of said taximeters not sealed and
covered and gear box thereof intact. All taximeters and the power take-off gear
box shall be sealed by the town’s Police Department and must at all times bear
this seal when operating. Every such meter and gear box shall be inspected by
the Police Department at least twice each year and may be inspected at other
periodic intervals upon just cause shown. It shall be the responsibility of
both the operator and the driver to ascertain that the meter and gear box are
sealed before driving any taxicab within the town.
   (C)   The owners of such taxicabs so equipped shall present to the Police
Department at least annually, a written certification signed by the owner and
verified by the manufacturer or lessor of such taximeter that each taximeter in
use is in good working order and that it does accurately indicate the fare to
be paid upon the distance traveled and the waiting time.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 RATE OF FARE DISPLAYED.
   Each taxicab owner and/or operator shall cause to be displayed in a
conspicuous place inside each taxicab owned and operated a legible printed
schedule of the rates of fare.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
LICENSING
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person, partnership or corporation to operate or cause to be operated any
taxicab, as the same is defined in §
111.01 of this code, upon and over the streets, alleys or other public highways
of the town unless such person, partnership or corporation shall have first
obtained a license to do so and shall have in other respects conformed to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 APPLICATION.
   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring such a license shall make a
verified application therefor in writing and shall pay the license fee
hereinafter prescribed, and such application shall give the name of the
application and his or her place of residence, the number and description of
the vehicles proposed to be used by the applicant; and shall state the amount
of liability insurance carried or to be carried by the applicant to ensure the
payment of any final judgment that might be rendered for damages to persons for
damages to person or property resulting from negligent or unlawful operation of
the vehicles or either of them within the town.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 111.17 REGISTRATION OF DRIVERS.
   The licenses of any taxicab licensed under this subchapter shall employ none
except skillful and experienced drivers who shall be licensed as provided by
the laws of the state, and the list of the names and places of residence of
such drivers shall be furnished on January 1 of each year to the Clerk-
Treasurer and kept on file by him or her in his or her office. A registration
fee of $1 per year shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer for each driver
registered under this section. Each such registration hereunder shall terminate
on December 31 of each year. In the event any driver is disabled or quits the
service of his or her employer, substitute drivers may be employed, but in such
case, the names of such substitute driver shall be filed and registered with
the Clerk-Treasurer within 48 hours after he or she begins work.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 111.18 NUMBER OF LICENSES TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   Licenses issued under this subchapter shall be limited to one license
for each 1,000 or major fraction thereof, of the population of said town as
determined by the last preceding United States census.
   (B)   In the event there shall at any time be more applications for licenses
than are allowable under this subchapter, the Town Council shall determined
which, if any, of such applications shall be allowed and which shall be denied.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 111.19 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Taxicab licenses may be revoked and the right to operate suspended for
any violation by any operator or his or her employee of any of the provisions
of this chapter, or for the violation of any penal statutes of the state.
   (B)   The convenience of the public being of paramount importance, owners
and/or operators of taxicabs licensed pursuant to this subchapter shall give
good, efficient and sufficient service to persons desiring transportation
within the limits of said town, and a failure to do so shall be sufficient
grounds for the revocation or suspension of this license.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 111.20 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fees to be charged and collected under this subchapter shall be
as follows: For the first vehicle in service by any operator the sum of $15 per
year and for each additional vehicle the sum of $10 per year. In the case
license is granted to any applicant after January 1 of any year, he or she
shall pay as a license fee therefor a sum equal to $1.50 per month for the
first vehicle and $1 per month for each additional vehicle, time to be computed
to the next ensuing January 1.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of any section of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor punishable by fines of not less than $1 or more than $25 for each
offense.
(Ord. 6, 1974, passed 5-7-1974)
CHAPTER 112: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Public policy and purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Restrictions, requirements and conditions
   
112.04   Licensing
   
112.05   Administration
   
112.06   Remedies
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings. The Town Council finds as follows.
      (1)   Certain adult entertainment activities which are located near areas
zoned for residential use, near churches, schools and near public parks, malls
and similar open spaces that cater to use by family groups and children have an
adverse effect on the uses of such nearby properties for such purposes
aforesaid.
      (2)   Certain adult entertainment activities, because of the conditions
of their operations, have contributed to an increased incident of crime and
juvenile delinquency.
      (3)   Adult entertainment activities through outside displays tend to
attract an undesirable quantity and quality of clientele that encourages
neighboring residents and businesses to move elsewhere and militates against
new residents and businesses coming into the area thereby adversely affecting
property values and contributing to a general deterioration of the town’s
neighborhoods.
   (B)   Declaration of public policy. The Town Council hereby declares as a
matter of public policy that the regulating of adult entertainment activities
within the town is a public necessity and is required in the interest of the
health, safety, welfare and the economic and aesthetic well-being of the
citizens of the town and all contiguous areas in which the town controls
zoning, pursuant to town ordinances.
   (C)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to effect the declaration of public
policy set forth herein as it relates to the foregoing findings of the Town
Council, and more particularly:
         (a)   To protect property values;
         (b)   To prevent blight and the deterioration of the town and
contiguous areas neighborhoods;
         (c)   To promote a climate conducive to a return of residents and
businesses to the town and contiguous areas neighborhoods;
         (d)   To enhance the quality of life in the town and contiguous areas
neighborhoods;
         (e)   To preserve and stabilize the town and contiguous areas
neighborhoods; and
         (f)   To decrease the incidence of crime and juvenile delinquency.
      (2)   It is not the purpose of this chapter to establish community
standards on obscenity, nor to allow the establishment of adult entertainment
activities which are in violation of state laws or pornography.
(Ord. 3, 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES. One or more of the following activities:
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock in trades for sale, rent or display, pictures,
books periodicals, magazines, appliances and similar material which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities as hereinafter described, or an
establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such
material.
      (2)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment with a capacity
for less than 50 persons having as a substantial or significant portion of its
use the presentation of materials having as a dominant theme or characterized
or distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
sexual activities as hereinafter described for observation by persons therein.
      (3)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment with a capacity of
50 or more persons having as a substantial or significant portion of its use
the presentation of material having as a dominant theme or characterized or
distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
sexual activities as hereinafter described for observation by persons therein.
      (4)   ADULT STAGE SHOW THEATER. An establishment used for presenting live
performances of human and/or animals having as a dominant theme or
characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating
to sexual activities, as hereinafter described, for observation by persons
therein.
      (5)   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. An establishment having as a substantial or
significant portion of its business one or more of the following: Customer-
operated motion picture devices; peep shows; and/or similar devices.
      (6)   BATHHOUSE. An establishment for providing bathing, sauna, steam
room and/or lavatory facilities for male and/or female persons which promotes
its services by using and/or advertising the use of homosexual attendants.
      (7)   CABARET. An establishment which features as entertainers and/or
waiters and/or bartenders, male or female impersonators and/or persons, either
male or female, who expose to public view of the patrons of said establishment
at any time the bare female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola, human genitals, pubic region and/or buttocks and/or human or
simulated male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
opaquely covered.
      (8)   MESSAGE PARLOR. An establishment for treating the human body by
rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping or similar treatment with the hand which
promotes its services by using and/or advertising the use of female attendants
and/or masseuses for male patrons.
      (9)   TAXI DANCE HALL. An establishment operated as a public dance hall
where dance partners, either male or female, are available for hire for a
monetary consideration payable either by the dance or as part of an entrance
fee or membership fee.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Mooresville, Indiana.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity.
   OWNER. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity who has
legal title to real estate, with or without accompanying actual possession
thereof, or shall have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any real
estate and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgagee
in possession.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity who
establishes and/or maintains a business as its owner or manager.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic
regions; buttock; female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
(Ord. 3, 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 112.03 RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   An establishment engaging in adult entertainment activities, except as
otherwise provided by laws which may be more restrictive, may not have more
than one outside flush to the wall, facia style sign, not to exceed in size
three feet in length (horizontal to the ground) with no flashing lights and
with no lettering, wording or pictorial or representational matter which is
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to sexual activities as herein defined.
   (B)   An establishment engaging in adult entertainment activities may not
display its stock in trade or activities in such a manner as to be subject to
public view from outside the establishment, including but not limited to view
from public sidewalks, streets, arcades, hallways or passways.
   (C)   An operator engaging in adult entertainment activities may not permit
a person under 18 years of age to enter his or her establishment.
   (D)   An operator engaging in adult entertainment activities shall, at all
times, cause the entrance of his or her establishment to be so attended as to
ensure compliance with the requirements contained in division (C) above.
   (E)   An adult amusement arcade, except as otherwise provided by law which
may be more restrictive, shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Any wall or partition which is situated so as to create a room,
enclosure or both in which any amusement device is located shall be constructed
of not less than one-hour fire-resistive material.
      (2)   The width of the aisles in any room where an amusement device is
located shall be more than 42 inches.
      (3)   There shall be no fewer than two doorways of a width no less than
36 inches which provide ingress or egress from any room in which an amusement
device is located; provided, however, that one doorway shall be sufficient in
the event the Fire Chief should so determine. Doorway or doorways shall be
unlocked during business hours.
      (4)   Over every doorway which provides egress from any room in which an
amusement device is located there shall be maintained an internally illuminated
exit sign with letters at least five inches in height.
      (5)   Each amusement device located in such establishment shall be
situated so as to permit the person using the device to have a constantly
unobstructed view of the doorway or doorways which provide ingress or egress
from the establishment.
      (6)   All state administrative building counsel requirements shall be
followed.
      (7)   A light level of no less than ten foot-candles at floor level shall
be maintained in every portion of said establishment to which the public is
admitted.
      (8)   The numbers of persons in any room or partitioned portion of a room
where amusement devices are located shall not exceed one person per 30 square
feet. The maximum occupancy load permitted in any room or partitioned portion
of a room in which amusement devices are located shall be conspicuously posted
by the operator and shall remain posted at the entrance of said room.
      (9)   The number of amusement devices shall not exceed the maximum
occupancy load permitted in any room or partitioned portion of a room in which
an amusement device is located. The maximum number of amusement devices
permitted in any room or partitioned portion of a room shall be conspicuously
posted by the operator and shall remain posted at the entrance of said room.
(Ord. 3, 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 112.04 LICENSING.
   (A)   The operator of an establishment engaging in an adult entertainment
activity shall be required to make application for a license with the Council
after the effective date of this chapter. Such application shall be in writing,
under oath, and shall be in the form prescribed by the Council and shall
contain the following information together with such further information as the
Council may requires:
      (1)   (a)   The name and location of the establishment;
         (b)   The names and addresses of the applicants, owners of the
establishment, and if a corporation, the names and addresses of the directors
and the names and addresses of shareholders owning capital stock therein, and
if a partnership, the names and addresses of the partners;
         (c)   The names and addresses of the owners of the property on which
the establishment is located;
         (d)   The name and addresses of any rental agent of the property on
which the establishment is located; and
         (e)   The nature of the activity or activities to be engaged at such
location.
      (2)   All criminal convictions of the applicant, owners, directors,
partners, shareholders or employees, other than misdemeanor traffic violations.
This information shall be at all times current. It shall be the responsibility
of the operator to notify the Council of any changes in this information;
      (3)   The name and address of any person the applicant wants mail notice
to be given in case of violation or other matters affecting the license
hereunder;
      (4)   Such application shall include a photograph or drawing of any signs
displayed or proposed to be displayed on the exterior of the establishment and
a statement of the dimensions of such signs;
      (5)   Such application shall be accompanied by a certificate of occupancy
issued through the Plan Commission, certifying that the business is in
compliance with applicable zoning laws or has non-conforming rights; and
      (6)   Such application shall include a certificate from the Town Fire
Chief that all applicable fire regulations have been met and, in the case of an
adult amusement arcade, that all requirements of §
112.03(E) of this code have been met.
   (B)   (1)   The Council will cause the premises to be inspected after such
application has been received and shall issue a license forthwith if all
restrictions, requirements and conditions and all applicable requirements of
law have been met; except, that no license will be issued if the applicant or
any owner, director, shareholder or employee has been convicted of any felony
within five years of the date of application.
      (2)   Provided, however, the granting of a license does not certify
compliance with all applicable laws, nor does it stop the town from enforcement
of all applicable laws.
      (3)   If inspection reveals failure to comply with any restrictions,
requirements or conditions the Council shall notify the applicant in writing of
that fact, stating what failures have been discovered and allow a reasonable
time to correct such defects and informing the applicant of the appeal
procedure if the applicant does not agree with the Council’s decision.
   (C)   The Council may permit such variance or deviation from the regulations
of this chapter as will effectuate the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (D)   After the effective date of this chapter, no operator shall maintain,
operate or conduct an establishment engaging in adult entertainment activities
unless such person has made application and obtained a license.
   (E)   After the effective date of this chapter, upon receipt of notice, no
owner shall permit adult entertainment activities to operate on his or her
property without a license.
   (F)   After the effective date of this chapter, upon receipt of notice, no
person shall work or permit himself or herself to be employed at an adult
entertainment activity which has not been licensed.
   (G)   All licenses shall be for the calendar year January 1 to December 31,
or the remaining portion of such calendar year. The annual license fee shall be
$500.
   (H)   Annual fees may be prorated at the rate of $50 per month for the
remaining full month of the current calendar year, but not to exceed $500.
Application for renewal of a license shall be made on or before October 1 of
each year and accompanied by the annual fee of $500. Such application shall
also contain any changes in the information required by division (A) above
which have occurred since the previous application.
   (I)   A license may be transferred to a new owner or operator or to a new
location by a license holder by giving written notice to the Council 14 days
before the effective date of such transfer, and upon filing therewith the
complete information required in division (A) above for the new owner or
operator, and upon the finding by the Council that such new owner or operator
or location is qualified under this chapter. The fee for a license transfer
shall be $250.
   (J)   The Council shall have the power to revoke said license for the
failure to comply with the restrictions, requirements and conditions set forth
in §
112.03 of this code.
(Ord. 3, 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 112.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Council is empowered to enact whatever rules and regulations are
necessary for the orderly and complete administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 3, 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 112.06 REMEDIES.
   In the event an individual, partnership, limited partner, corporation
(profit or non-profit) or other business entity violates the provisions of this
chapter, the town, in addition to other remedies under state law, shall be
authorized to institute an action to enjoin the establishment of or
continuation of such adult entertainment activity in violation of this chapter
in any court or competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3, 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual, partnership, limited partnership, corporation (profit
or non-profit) or other business entity who violates any provision of this
chapter or who disobeys, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $500, nor more than
$1,000 for each offense.
   (B)   Each day of each violation shall constitute a separate offense. No
additional notice other than notice for the original offense shall be required
to punish a person for violations resulting from a continuation of such
original offense.
(Ord. 3, 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
113.01   Cable television service regulations adopted
   
113.02   FCC rules and regulations adopted
§ 113.01 CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The town adopts and will follow the FCC regulations prescribed in the Report
and Order, in the Matter of Implementation of Sections of Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 in its regulation of the basic
service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television systems
operating in the town, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions
in the franchise.
(Ord. 16, 1993, passed - -)
§ 113.02 FCC RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Town Council adopts the rules and regulations set forth by the Federal
Communications Commission pursuant to § 623(b) of the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. § 543(b)) for the review of
the basic service tier of cable television services and equipment necessary for
the provision of such service tier. Such rules and regulations promulgated by
the Federal Communications Commission are found in Exhibit “A” attached to the
ordinance codified in this section.
(Ord. 17, 1993, passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   NOISE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Loitering prohibited
   
130.02   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other bodily
gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a specific
intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew hours for children 15, 16 and 17 years of age. It shall be a
violation of this section for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be in a
public place in the town at any time during the following curfew hours:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   Curfew hours for children younger than 15 years of age. It shall be a
violation of this section for a child younger than 15 years of age to be in a
public place in the town after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 p.m. on any day.
   (C)   Application. Divisions (A) and (B) above do not apply to a child who
is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian; or
      (3)   With the consent of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian,
either participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   An expressive, religious or associational activity protected by
either federal or state law including but not limited to the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech and the right of assembly.
   (D)   Enforcement. In addition to the imposition of fines, the court, upon
request, shall order such injunctive relief as is appropriate and necessary to
prevent a child from committing further violations of this section.
   (E)   Curfew, responsibilities of parent, guardian or custodian. It shall be
a violation of this section for a parent, guardian or custodian of a child
under the age of 18 years to knowingly allow the child to commit a curfew
violation under this section.
(Ord. 15, 2000, passed 9-5-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A child who commits a violation of §
130.02 of this code is subject to the enforcement procedures provided in I.C.
34-28-5-1 and all amendments thereto. Whenever a complaint is filed against a
child for a violation of §
130.02 of this code, the town’s Police Department shall direct a copy of the
complaint to the child’s parent, guardian or custodian, and further shall
attempt to reach the child’s parent, guardian or custodian to pick them up if
such person is known or can be identified by reasonable inquiry.
      (2)   In addition, the court may impose a fine along with court costs,
said fine not to be in excess of $25.
      (3)   A violation of §
130.02 of this code by a parent, guardian or custodian shall subject them to
the same enforcement fines and court costs and potential injunctive relief as
is set out in this division (B).
(Ord. 15, 2000, passed 9-5-2000)
CHAPTER 131: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
131.01   General provisions
   
131.02   Exemptions
   
131.03   Animals
   
131.04   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   No person shall play, use or operate any machine or device for the producing
or reproducing of sound, including, but not limited to, loudspeakers, radios,
CD players, television sets, musical instruments, phonographs and cassette
players, nor any other machine or tool that produces sound, nor shall any
person operate any motor vehicle that contains a modified or defective exhaust
system, if such machine, tool or vehicle is located in or on any of the
following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, public space, park or thoroughfare and the sound generated
therefrom is audible 40 feet or more from its source, or is at a level of 85
decibels (85 dB) or more when measured on a dB(A) scale from a distance of not
less than six feet from its source; or
   (B)   Any private property and the sound generated therefrom is at a level
of 85 decibels (85dB) or more when measured on a dB(A) scale from a distance
from said private property line.
(Ord. 2, 2016, passed 1-26-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawnmowers, weed blowers, garden tractors, construction and repair
equipment, go-carts, all-terrain vehicles as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7, off-
road vehicles as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, recreational off-road vehicles as
defined in I.C. 14-8-2-233.5, off-road motorcycles and other gas- and diesel-
powered vehicles and power tools, when properly muffled, between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. only;
   (C)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed,
providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concert
performances, as well as any rehearsals for same, and all other events
authorized by the Town Council or other appropriate governmental entity;
   (E)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic or
sporting events and practices related thereto;
   (F)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or for the performance of emergency construction,
repair or other work;
   (G)   Sounds associated with the use of legal fireworks;
   (H)   Sounds associated with the use of the Police Department’s firing
range;
   (I)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses, organizations and governmental entities, when such sounds
are customary, incidental and within the normal range appropriate for such use;
   (J)   Rubbish collection utilizing any mechanical equipment between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. only;
   (K)   Subject to the other provisions of this chapter and any other
applicable law, rule or regulation, sounds associated with motor vehicles
lawfully operating on town streets;
   (L)   Sounds associated with equipment or animals lawfully utilized by
handicapped persons to accommodate their handicap; and
   (M)   Sounds associated with the operation of aircraft; sounds emitted from
air brakes from trucks and other large vehicles using this type of brake
system; and sounds from church chimes and bells.
(Ord. 2, 2016, passed 1-26-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep any animal, other than a service animal lawfully used
by a handicapped person to accommodate his or her handicap, which, by causing
frequent or long-continuing noise that is audible 40 feet or more from its
source when the animal is on public property or 40 feet or more outside of a
private property line when the animal is on private property does disturb the
comfort or repose of any other person.
(Ord. 2, 2016, passed 1-26-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Court shall be the court of proper venue and jurisdiction for
the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by any sworn
member of the town’s Police Department.
(Ord. 2, 2016, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than:
 
First offense                  Up to $25
Second offense                 Up to $50
Third offense                  Up to $200
Fourth and subsequent offenses Up to $500
 
(Ord. 2, 2016, passed 1-26-2016)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Fallout shelters in public buildings
Building Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Authority
   
150.18   Scope
   
150.19   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.20   Building permits
   
150.21   Review of application
   
150.22   Inspections
   
150.23   Stop order
   
150.24   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.25   Workmanship
   
150.26   Violations
   
150.27   Right of appeal
   
150.28   Remedies
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.40   Established
   
150.41   State code adopted
   
150.42   Building Inspector and Hearing Authority
   
150.43   Unsafe building a public nuisance
   
150.44   Authority
   
150.45   Standards
   
150.46   Workmanship
   
150.47   Unsafe Building Fund
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 FALLOUT SHELTERS IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In the construction of future public buildings within the town, room for
fallout shelters shall be incorporated in the plans of said public buildings to
the fullest extent practicable, in order to provide protection against
radiation for the greatest number of persons in the event of a nuclear attack.
(Res. passed 6-20-1967)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Mooresville, Indiana,” may be
cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.17 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever in this
subchapter it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of
the town, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether this subchapter has been complied with; and no such
provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what this subchapter shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinances, or to enforce this subchapter in an arbitrary or discriminatory
manner. Any variance from adopted building rules are subject to approval under
I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.18 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alterations,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4, in the town and its buffer zone area shown in its
zoning maps.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.19 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the state’s Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of 675 I.A.C. are hereby
incorporated by reference in this subchapter and shall include later amendments
to those articles as the same are published in the Indiana Register or the
state’s administrative code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13: Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and building safety standards;
         (b)   State Building Code;
         (c)   State Building Code standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14: One- and Two-family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for permanent installation of manufactured homes.
      (3)   Article 16: Plumbing Codes: State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17: Electrical Codes:
         (a)   State Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18: Mechanical Code: State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19: Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20: Swimming Pool Codes: State Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.20 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for permits. No building permit shall be issued for the
foregoing purposes, unless the application for a permit is accompanied by a
plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot boundaries, and by plans
and specifications showing the work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design
release, issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal,
pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the Building Commissioner
before issuance of a permit for construction covered by such design release.
   (B)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained before beginning
construction, alternation or repair of any building or structure, using forms
furnished by the Building Commissioner, and all fees required by this
subchapter shall be paid to the town.
   (C)   Other ordinances. All work done under any permit shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the
fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
   (D)   Fees.
Building Permits
Building Permits
Accessory building       $30 up to 1,000 square feet
Accessory building       $50 over 1,000 square feet
Addition (business)      $50 plus $0.02 per square foot
Addition (residential)   $50
Electrical               $20
Heating                  $20
New commercial           $100 plus $0.02 per square foot
New residential          $100
Plumbing                 $20
Signs                    $30
Swimming pool            $30
Filing
Planned unit development $100 plus $5 per unit
Rezoning                 $100
Special exception        $50
Subdivision plats        $100 plus $5 per lot
Variance                 $50
 
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.21 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit application to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction of
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair: Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to
flood damage; and uses construction methods and practices that will minimize
flood damage; and
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvement within the floodplain area having special flood hazards
to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and mobile
homes) is protected against flood damage, is designed (or modified) and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure,
flood damage and uses construction methods and practices that will minimize
flood damage.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.22 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work
being done as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter and the terms of the permit.
      (2)   Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Inspection assistance. The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her
designated representative, shall assist the Building Commissioner in the
inspection of fire suppression, detection and alarm systems and shall provide
reports of such inspection to the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Entry. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building
Commissioner or his or her duly authorized representatives may enter at
reasonable times any building, structure or premises in the town to perform any
duty imposed upon him or her by this subchapter.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.23 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.24 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected,
altered or repaired after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued
unless such building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or structure unless a
full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work in the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.26 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All personal shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision first through the Plan Commission and then to the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 22-13-2-7 and 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.28 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring actions in
the circuit or superior courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.40 ESTABLISHED.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. and all amendments thereto,
there is hereby established the Unsafe Building Ordinance, an ordinance for
maintenance and repair of vacant structures.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993)
§ 150.41 STATE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. is hereby adopted by and referenced as the town’s
Unsafe Building Ordinance and Vacant Structure Maintenance and Repair
Ordinance. Proceedings under this subchapter within the town providing for the
inspection, repair, maintenance and removal of unsafe buildings and other
vacant structures shall be governed by the aforementioned state code, and all
amendments to said code, along with the specific provisions set out in this
subchapter.
   (B)   In the event of direct conflict between the provisions of this
subchapter and I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., and any amendment thereto, the provisions
of the state statute shall be controlling.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993)
§ 150.42 BUILDING INSPECTOR AND HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Building Inspector’s office. The Town Council designates the Building
Inspector’s office as the “executive department” authorized to administer this
chapter. The head Building Inspector shall be the “enforcement authority”
designated as the chief administrative officer.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HEARING AUTHORITY. The Judge of the Town Court.
      PERSON. Any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity,
including an owner, lessee, sublessee or occupant.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
         (a)   Any right in real property that may be effected in a substantial
way by actions authorized by this chapter, including a fee interest, a life
estate interest, a future interest, a present possessory interest or an
equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
         (b)   In a consolidated municipality, the interest reflected by a
deed, lease, license, mortgage, land sale contract or lien is not a substantial
property interest unless the deed, lease, license, mortgage, land sale
contract, lien or evidence of it is:
            1.   Recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or
            2.   The subject of a written information that is received by the
Division of Development Services and includes the name and address of the
holder of the interest described.
         (c)   This definition specifically states the definition of I.C. 36-7-
9-2 and shall incorporate by reference any amendment to this state code cite.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993; Ord. 18, 2000, passed 12-5-2000)
§ 150.43 UNSAFE BUILDING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined to be
unsafe as defined in this subchapter are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be, after proper notice, be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, removal, sealing or other appropriate maintenance
as set out in said order of the enforcement authority or order of the hearing
authority.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993)
§ 150.44 AUTHORITY.
   Any enforcement of this subchapter that states certain work shall be done
subject to the approval of or the direction of the Building Inspector, or any
other officer of the town, shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by this
subchapter or codes of the state have been complied with; and no such
provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what such regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinance or state statute or state building standards, or to
enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993)
§ 150.45 STANDARDS.
   (A)   The definition of unsafe buildings and unsafe premises described in
I.C. 36-7-9-4 and all amendments thereto is hereby supplemented to provide more
specific minimum standards for building conditions or maintenance in the town
for the purpose of giving more specific standards to I.C. 36-7-9-4(a)(1)
through (a)(6), and when a violation is cited, the state code number shall be
specified along with the more specific itemized violations set out in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Specific standards are as follows:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in the case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more that one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of: Dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town, or of any law or ordinance of the state or the town relating to
the condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction arrangements, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the health official to be unsanitary
unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that it is likely to cause
sickness or disease;
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the fire official to be
a fire hazard; and
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of one month so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993)
§ 150.46 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical, mechanical and
one- and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission shall be considered standard and acceptable practice for all
matters covered by this subchapter or others issued pursuant to this subchapter
by the Building Inspector of the town.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993)
§ 150.47 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town, in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 8-17-1993)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.28 of this code, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.28 of this code for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person,
firm or corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $1, nor more than
$500.
      (2)   Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by division (B)
(1) above shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 5-4-1988)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Adopting ADA standards
Signs
   
151.15   Signs which interfere with official signs or traffic devices
   
151.16   Improper construction to be removed by town
   
151.17   Enforcement
Streets, Sidewalks and Public Ways
   
151.30   Authority
   
151.31   Conforming to specifications required
   
151.32   Permit required
   
151.33   Responsibility for maintenance
   
151.34   Completion notice
   
151.35   Safety markers, barricades and the like
   
151.36   Permit fee
   
151.37   Corporate surety bond
   
151.38   Fees and bond required with application
   
151.39   Compliance
   
151.40   Forfeiture of performance bond
   
151.41   Cash bond permitted
   
151.42   Waivers
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 ADOPTING ADA STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Town Council adopts the Americans with Disabilities (ADA)
standards.
   (B)   The town hereby approves the preparation of the ADA transition plan:
Pedestrian network.
   (C)   The following declaration becomes a written policy of the town.
 
NOTICE UNDER THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA)
 
   The Town of Mooresville adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities Act
Standards for Accessible Design and the 2005 Guidelines for Accessible Public
Rights. In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), the Town of Mooresville, Indiana will not
discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
disability in its services, programs, or activities.
 
   Employment: The Town of Mooresville, Indiana does not discriminate on the basis
of disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all
regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under
Title I of the ADA.
 
   Effective communication: The Town of Mooresville will generally, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for
qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in the Town of
Mooresville’s programs, services, and activities, including qualified sign
language interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making information
and communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing, or vision
impairments.
 
   Modifications to policies and procedures: The Town of Mooresville will make all
reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services, and
activities. For example, individuals with service animals are welcome in Town of
Mooresville offices, even where pets are generally prohibited.
 
   Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication, or
a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a program, service, or
activity of the Town of Mooresville should contact David Moore, ADA Coordinator,
at (317) 831-9547, as soon as possible but no later than 48 hours before the
scheduled event.
 
   The ADA does not require the Town of Mooresville to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden.
 
   Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the Town of Mooresville is
not accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the ADA
Coordinator, David Moore, at the Town of Mooresville, (317) 831-9547. The Town of
Mooresville will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a
disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such as
retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not accessible
to persons who use wheelchairs.
 
   (D)   The following shall be the town’s grievance procedure under the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
 
TOWN OF MOORESVILLE
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE UNDER
THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
 
1.   A formal written grievance should be filed on the Town of Mooresville’s ADA
Grievance Form (See attached, Exhibit A). Providing all pertinent information
regarding the grievance upon request, reasonable accommodations will be provided in
completing the form or filing the grievance. The grievance shall include the
following information:
•   The name, address, telephone number, and email of the person filing the
grievance.
•   The name, address, and telephone number of the person alleging the ADA
violation, discrimination, or request, if other than the person filing the
grievance.
•   A description and location of the alleged violation, discrimination, or request
and the remedy sought.
•   Information regarding whether a complaint has been filed with the Department of
Justice or other federal or state civil rights agency or court.
•   If a complaint has been filed, the name of the agency or court where the
complaint was filed, and the date the complaint was filed.
 
2.   Receipt of the grievance shall be acknowledged in writing to the grievant
within 15 working days of receipt of the grievance.
 
3.   Within sixty (60) calendar of receipt, the ADA Coordinator will conduct the
investigation necessary to determine the merit of the grievance.
 
4.   A written determination and where appropriate, in a format accessible to the
complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio tape of the grievance shall be
issued by the ADA Coordinator and a copy forwarded to the grievant no later than 90
days from the date of the Town of Mooresville’s receipt of the grievance.
 
5.   The grievant may appeal the written determination. The appeal must contain a
statement of the reasons why the complainant is dissatisfied with the written
decision and must be signed by the complainant, or by someone authorized to sign on
the complainant’s behalf. A notice of receipt shall be sent in writing within five
(5) days of the receipt of the appeal. Such appeal shall be in writing and filed
with the Office of the Clerk of the Town Council of Mooresville to be placed on an
agenda of the meeting of the Town Council within thirty (30) days after the ADA
Coordinator’s determination has been mailed to the grievant.
 
   All hearings before the Town Council shall be open to the public. The grievant,
the grievant’s representative, the ADA Coordinator and any persons whose interests
are affected shall be given the opportunity to be heard.
 
   At the conclusion of the hearing at which a continuance is not granted, the Town
Council may reverse, affirm, or modify the written determination appealed from, and
may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as justice would
require. The Town Council’s determination and findings of fact shall be recorded.
   Any person, whether or not a previous party of appeal, shall have the right to
apply to the appropriate court for a writ of certiorari to correct errors of law.
 
6.   If the grievant is dissatisfied with the Town of Mooresville’s handling of the
grievance at any stage of the process or does not wish to file a grievance through
the Town of Mooresville’s ADA Procedure, the grievant may file a complaint directly
with the United State Department of Justice or other appropriate state or federal
agency.
 
The evaluation and written determination of a resolution of a grievance will
consider various circumstances, including but not limited to, the specific nature of
the disability; the nature of the access to services, programs, or facilities at
issue and the essential eligibility requirements for participation; the health and
safety of others; and the degree to which an accommodation would constitute a
fundamental alteration to the program, services, or facility, or cause an undue
hardship to, and available funding. Accordingly, the resolution of any one grievance
does not constitute a precedent upon which is bound or upon which other complaining
parties may rely.
   Note: Except for the complainant’s appeal deadline, any of the other deadlines
listed above may be extended at the discretion of the ADA Coordinator, the Town
Council, or the Town Council’s designee, provided notice of such an extension is
given to the complainant.
 
   (E)   The town shall create and implement a transition plan for all public
rights-of-way within 90 days of passage of the resolution incorporated in
divisions (C) through (F). Pursuant to the transition plan, the town shall
conduct an inventory of curb ramps and sidewalks using field visits
supplemented by aerial photography. The town is committed to making all curb
ramp and sidewalk areas accessible to all pedestrians including those with
disabilities. The transition plan will include a summary of the inventory of
curb ramps and sidewalks and recommendations for each in order to bring any
curb or sidewalk into compliance under the ADA.
   (F)   Exhibit A - ADA Grievance Form is incorporated below.
EXHIBIT A
 
Grievant Information:
Grievant Name:
 
Address:    City: State: Zip Code:
                 
Phone:      E-Mail:
( ) -
Alternative Phone:
   ( ) -
Person Preparing Complaint Relationship to Grievant (if different from Grievant):
Name:
Address:    City: State: Zip Code:
 
Phone:      E-Mail:
   ( ) -
Alternative Phone:
   ( ) -
Please specify any location(s) related to the complaint or grievance (if applicable):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Please provide a complete description of the specific complaint or grievance:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 
(Res. 18, 2011, passed 11-15-2011; Res. 19, 2011, passed 11-15-2011; Res. 9-
2022, passed 2-15-2022)
SIGNS
§ 151.15 SIGNS WHICH INTERFERE WITH OFFICIAL SIGNS OR TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   (A)   No sign or sign structure shall be permitted which attempts or appears
to attempt to direct the movement of traffic, or which interferes with or
obstructs the view of, or can be confused with, imitates or resembles any
official traffic sign, signal or device. No rotating beam, beacon or flashing
illumination resembling any emergency light shall be used in connection with
any sign display.
   (B)   No sign shall be permitted which prevents the driver of a vehicle from
having a clear and unobstructed view from an adequate and safe distance of any
official sign and approaching or merging traffic.
   (C)   No sign or sign structure shall be located in such a manner as to
materially impede the view of any street or highway intersection or in such a
manners as to materially impede the view of the intersection of a street or
highway with a railroad crossing.
   (D)   No sign or sign structure shall be affixed to, displayed or located
upon any utility pole, light standard, tree, public transportation shelter,
traffic control device or similar structure, equipment or appurtenance located
upon any public right-of-way, utility easement or other public or private
property unless authorized by authority of the Town Council.
   (E)   No advertisements or material of any kind shall be permitted on
utility poles, standards, globes and fixtures or any part of any standard or
pole, owned by utility company and in the public right-of-way except such as
may be in the opinion of the town necessary for safety and traffic control.
(Ord. 3, 1996, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 IMPROPER CONSTRUCTION TO BE REMOVED BY THE TOWN.
   When there is a violation of any of the provisions of §
151.15 of this code, through its employees or as directed by the Street
Department Superintendent or Town Marshal’s office shall have the right to
remove any signage on any utility pole or public structure within the town
right-of-way, including utility poles or other poles erected by the town. The
town shall have the option prior to the enforcement of any violation of this
subchapter to give notice to the party placing the sign or advertisement on a
utility pole to have them remove the same within 48 hours.
(Ord. 3, 1996, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter may be enforced by the Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshals,
the town’s Street Department or any other employee of the town directed to act
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 3, 1996, passed 4-1-1996)
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 151.30 AUTHORITY.
   All maintenance, repair, alteration, cutting of, construction and
reconstruction of public streets, alleys, curbs, sidewalks and all other public
ways, shall be under the supervision of the Town Council, and/or its duly
constituted agent, the Town Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.31 CONFORMING TO SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. All such construction, cutting of, reconstruction, repairs or
alterations of such public ways shall be made and conform with the
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   Specifications.
      (1)   Public ways; sod and grass.
         (a)   Six inches of top soil; and
         (b)   Seed with two and one-half perennial rye grass and one part
Kentucky blue grass seed at a rate equivalent to 110 pounds per acre.
      (2)   Sidewalks.
         (a)   To be replaced to minimum depth of four inches or to depth of
existing walk whichever is greater; and
         (b)   Three thousand five hundred-pound Portland concrete to be used
on all sidewalk reconstruction.
      (3)   Curbs.
         (a)   To be replaced with curbs six inches wide and to heights of
existing curb with eight inches of curb to extend below surface of the road;
and
         (b)   Three thousand five hundred-pound Portland concrete to be used
on all curb reconstruction.
      (4)   Public streets and alleys. The reconstruction used shall be based
upon the surface of the street or alley existing at the time of the
reconstruction.
         (a)   Concrete specifications: Granular fill to be used within 18
inches of the top; fill to grade with #53 crushed stone; eight inches of 5,000-
pound Portland concrete.
         (b)   Asphalt specifications: Granular fill to be used within 18
inches of the top; fill to grade with #53 crushed stone; 12 inches of hot
asphalt compacted in three lifts.
         (c)   Stone specifications: Granular fill to be used within 18 inches
of the top; fill to grade with 18 inches of #53 crushed stone.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.32 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to cut, construct, reconstruct or lay any
pavement on any public street, alley, curb, sidewalk or other public way, or to
repair the same, or alter the same, without having first secured a permit
therefor.
      (2)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. No such permits shall be issued except where the work will conform
to the specifications of the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   All persons working in, on, under or over the public right-of-
way are required to obtain a permit from the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. Tills shall include, but are not limited to, pavement, curbs,
sidewalks, driveways, alleys, grass, stone or earth. The town’s Street
Department and the town’s Sewer Department shall be exempt from the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Application for such permits as required by this subchapter shall
describe the location of the intended cut, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair or opening on or across any such public way, the size
thereof, the purpose therefor, the person, the company or corporation doing the
actual work, and such application shall contain an agreement that the applicant
shall comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
accomplished. Complete plans and specifications may be requested by the Town
Council before such permits are issued.
   (C)   (1)   Duration of permit.
         (a)   Work on all permits approved under the terms of this subchapter
shall commence within five days of activation of said permit, and repairs shall
be completed within 30 days of commencement, unless a longer time period is
requested by the applicant at the time of application. Under these
circumstances no applicant shall be given more than 60 days total time to
complete said repairs.
         (b)   If, after construction has commenced, it becomes evident that
the proposed work cannot be completed within the prescribed permit period, the
permit holder, upon his or her written request, which shall be filed at the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office, shall receive one 30-day extension of time permitted
to complete the required construction or repairs.
         (c)   If, during the extension period, it becomes evident that the
proposed work cannot be completed within the 30-day extension period, the
permit holder may request an additional 30-day extension. The extension request
shall be made in writing prior to the expiration of the permit and must be
filed at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and shall be directed to the attention of
the Town Council. The request shall state the reasons for the additional time
needed, and said extension shall be granted at the discretion of the Town
Board. The permit holder will be notified of the decision at the first Town
Council meeting after the filing of the extension request. Time is of the
essence of the filing of the extension request, and it must be filed prior to
the expiration of the existing extension permit, and if the extension is
denied, the violation shall relate back to the date the existing extension
permit expired. In this instance, where the new extension is not granted, any
work performed without the required extension being granted shall be deemed
work performed without the required permit and shall be treated as such for the
purpose of assessing fines and penalties, all relating back to the expiration
date of the first 30-day extension of the original permit. To avoid additional
fines and penalties set out hereunder, the applicant should obtain a new permit
before proceeding with uncompleted portions of the project. If the permit is
allowed to expire with work remaining to be performed, and a new permit is not
obtained, a claim will be filed with the permit holder’s bonding company
immediately. Forfeiture will be demanded after two weeks. In addition, a fine
and penalty to cover all cost the town may incur as a result of the expiration
will be assessed to the permit holder.
      (2)   Emergency repair order. In the event that it becomes necessary to
make an emergency repair which would require a permit under this subchapter at
a time when the Clerk-Treasurer’s office is not open, the applicant should pick
up an emergency repair order form from the Town Marshal’s office and fill out
the same leaving it at the Town Marshal’s office. Applicant shall then file for
the necessary permit the next business day that the Clerk-Treasurer’s office is
open and comply with all other terms of this subchapter at such time. In the
event that the applicant does not file for the necessary permits on the next
business day of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, it will be considered as a
violation, and the violator will be subject to the penalty provisions set out
in this subchapter.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder to maintain all
cuts made within the roadway surface until the town’s Street Department
resurfaces or reconstructs the roadway. There shall be no time limit on this
responsibility.
   (B)   There shall be no permits issued under this subchapter affecting any
street or roadway which has been resurfaced within two years from the date of
said permit application. This section shall not apply in the case of an
emergency which threatens the public safety or damage to property.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.34 COMPLETION NOTICE.
   All permit holders shall notify the town through its Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, in writing, upon completion of the work encompassed by the permit. The
letter shall be signed by the permit holder and sent to the following address:
Town of Mooresville, office of the Clerk-Treasurer, 26 South Indiana Street,
Mooresville, Indiana, 46158.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.35 SAFETY MARKERS, BARRICADES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the permit applicant to mark all
excavations and fence the same off if necessary for safety purposes. In
addition, the applicant shall be responsible for the protection and well-being
of the general public from any excavations or construction or reconstruction
being done and shall properly police the same from the general public along
with providing all necessary safety markers, barricades and lighting to provide
for the safety of all forms of traffic.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.36 PERMIT FEE.
   Before any such intended work is started, the applicant shall pay to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer a permit fee of $25 per first 50 square feet of the cut
and an additional $1 for each square foot of cut thereafter. In addition, there
shall be an inspection fee in the amount of $25 per street cut.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.37 CORPORATE SURETY BOND.
   (A)   Each public and/or private utility doing business within the corporate
limits of the town shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a corporate surety
bond in the principal sum of $10,000, as and for assurance to the Town Council
that each of such utilities shall fully comply with the provisions of §§
151.30 through
151.36 of this code regulating the maintenance, repair, cutting, construction,
reconstruction or alteration of public streets, alleys, curbs, sidewalks and
other public ways within the town.
   (B)   In the event that any such utility shall fail to comply with the
provisions of division (A) above, permits as are provided for in §
151.32 of this code shall not be issued until compliance is had.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.38 FEES AND BOND REQUIRED WITH APPLICATION.
   Any person, business, corporation or other entity, other than public or
private utilities, which shall make application for a permit to cut, construct,
reconstruct or lay any pavement on any public street, alley, curb, sidewalk or
other public way, or to repair the same, or alter the same, shall be obligated
to make application and to pay the stated permit fee as set out in §
151.36 of this code and the inspection fee of $25 as stated in §
151.36 of this code. Such person, business, corporation or other entity shall
also be obligated to file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a corporate surety bond
in the principal sum of $10,000, as assurance to the Board of Trustees that
each of such person, business, corporation or other entity shall fully comply
with the provisions of §§
151.30 through
151.36 of this code as to construction, maintenance, repair, alterations,
cutting of, construction or reconstruction of public streets and alleys within
the town.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.39 COMPLIANCE.
   In the event any such person, business, corporation or other entity shall
fail to comply with the posting of such surety bond in the principal sum of
$10,000, to assure compliance with §§
151.30 through
151.36 of this code, permits as are provided for in §
151.32 of this code shall not be issued until compliance is had.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.40 FORFEITURE OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The permit holder will forfeit the performance bond under the following
conditions.
   (A)   The permit holder fails to complete the work within the prescribed
time and fails to acquire a new permit.
   (B)   The permit holder, after being duly notified, fails to take remedial
action within three working days and complete the repairs within ten working
days.
   (C)   The permit holder fails to pay all charges and assessments within 60
days.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.41 CASH BOND PERMITTED.
   (A)   The Town Council does hereby delegate to the Town Street
Superintendent the power and authority, upon written request being made by any
person, business, corporation or other entity, to permit the issuance of a
permit without the posting of a $10,000 surety bond in the event that such
Street Superintendent shall determine that a sufficient cash bond can be posted
to assure compliance with §§
151.30 through
151.36 of this code.
   (B)   Such cash bond, as shall be determined and set by the Street
Superintendent, shall be posted with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The cash bond
shall be retained by the Town Council until completion of the project by
applicant.
   (C)   The permit applicant shall replace, and at all times keep, and leave
the involved public way, public street, public alley, curb or sidewalk or part
of the same, in as good repair as it was before the permit was issued. After
the completion of the project by applicant, but before any of the deposit shall
be returned and refunded to the permit applicant, the town shall deduct from
said deposit any amount which is necessary to compensate said town or any of
its employees or agents for replacing the involved public way, public street,
public ally, curb or sidewalk, or part thereof, in as good repair as the same
was before the permit was issued and the work completed by the permit
applicant. The balance of said deposit, if any, shall thereafter be refunded to
the permit applicant.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.42 WAIVERS.
   Upon written application by a person or entity subject to the provisions of
this subchapter, the Town Council, may, if it determines that such action is
consistent with the public safety and interest, grant a waiver of any
requirement set out in this subchapter on projects or projects to be performed
by that person requesting said waiver. All waivers so granted shall be in
writing and remain in effect unless and until revoked in accordance with this
subchapter. All applications for waiver shall be made directly to the Town
Council and will be made at one of the meetings of the Town Council.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be a civil infraction for any person, corporation, limited
liability company or other legal entity to violate the terms of §§
151.15 through
151.17 of this code, punishable by a fine of not less than $5 nor greater than
$50. Each such violation shall be deemed to be a separate offense. Fine and
court costs may be assessed for violations which shall be cited in the Town
Court by written citation.
   (C)   (1)   If a permit is not obtained and this fact is discovered while
the job is in progress, a fine of $10 per square foot of disturbed surface,
with a minimum of $30 shall be assessed. A permit is still required and its
cost shall be in addition to the fine. The job shall be closed down until the
required permit is obtained.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any other provisions of
§§
151.30 through
151.42 of this code shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during, or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   There will be a fine of not more than $50 for violations of §
151.32 of this code, and separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 15, 1983, passed 11-15-1983; Ord. 3, 1996, passed 4-1-1996)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Stormwater Management and Erosion Control
   
152.01   Findings
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Applicability; exemptions
   
152.04   Variances
   
152.05   Provisions subject to other laws
   
152.06   Fees
   
152.07   Stormwater Design Manual
   
152.08   Definitions
   
152.09   Submission requirements and plan approvals
   
152.10   Detention requirements
   
152.11   Conveyance requirements
   
152.12   Emergency-access easement requirements
   
152.13   Flood control and management
   
152.14   Water quality
   
152.15   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
   
152.16   Reporting
   
152.17   Enforcement
   
152.18   Facility maintenance
   
152.19   Illicit connections and illegal dumping
Illicit Discharge and Connection
   
152.30   Purpose
   
152.31   Definitions
   
152.32   Applicability
   
152.33   Administration
   
152.34   Ultimate responsibility
   
152.35   Discharge prohibitions
   
152.36   Suspension of MS4 access
   
152.37   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
152.38   Monitoring of discharges
   
152.39   Prevention, control and reduction of stormwater pollutants
   
152.40   Watercourse protection
   
152.41   Notification of spills
   
152.42   Enforcement
   
152.43   Appeals
   
152.44   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
152.45   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
152.46   Injunctive relief
   
152.47   Compensatory action
   
152.48   Violations a public nuisance
   
152.49   Expenses
   
152.50   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
152.99   Penalty
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL
§ 152.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Waterbodies, roadways, structures and other property within and
downstream of the town are at times subjected to flooding.
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the town and the region.
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream
channel erosion and sediment transport and deposition.
   (D)   Stormwater runoff produced by land development contributes to
increased quantities of waterborne pollutants.
   (E)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion and non-point source pollution, due to
land development within the town, have resulted in the deterioration of the
water resources of the town and downstream municipalities. Increased stormwater
runoff rates and volumes and the sediments and pollutants associated with
stormwater runoff from development projects within the town may, absent
reasonable regulation and control, adversely affect the town’s waterbodies and
water resources, and those of downstream municipalities.
   (F)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion and non-point source pollution can be
controlled and/or minimized by the regulation and management of stormwater
runoff from development.
   (G)   Adopting the standards, criteria and procedures contained in this
subchapter and implementing the same will address many of the detrimental
effects of stormwater runoff.
   (H)   Adopting these standards is necessary for the preservation of the
soils and topography of the town as well as the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (I)   The town has the authority to adopt a stormwater management ordinance
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish minimum stormwater
management requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general
health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   This subchapter seeks to accomplish, among others, the following
objectives:
      (1)   To reduce flood damage;
      (2)   To mitigate increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes from
identified new land development;
      (3)   To minimize the deterioration of existing watercourses, culverts
and bridges, and other structures associated with stormwater conveyance;
      (4)   To encourage water recharge into the ground where geologically
favorable conditions exist;
      (5)   To prevent an increase in non-point source pollution;
      (6)   To maintain the integrity of stream channels for biological
functions, as well as for drainage and other purposes;
      (7)   To minimize the impact of development upon stream bank and stream
bed stability;
      (8)   To reduce erosion and off-site sedimentation from development or
construction projects;
      (9)   To preserve and protect water supply facilities and water resources
by means of controlling increased flood discharges, stream erosion and runoff
pollution;
      (10)   To reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and
non-point source pollution, wherever practicable, from lands that were
developed without stormwater management controls meeting the purposes and
standards of this subchapter as well as future developments;
      (11)   To implement the minimum standards established in this subchapter
to protect waterbodies from degradation resulting from changing land use where
there are insufficient stormwater management controls;
      (12)   To protect adjoining property owners from detrimental impacts
caused by changing land use and/or drainage; and
      (13)   To ensure that mineral extraction is carried out without adverse
impact on waterbodies or nearby landowners.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.03 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to any development within the incorporated
boundaries of the town within the jurisdiction of this subchapter which will
alter stormwater drainage characteristics of the disturbed land or development
site; provided, however, that this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The installation or removal of individual mobile homes within a mobile
home park. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to the construction,
expansion or modification of a mobile home park;
   (B)   Plats with preliminary plat approval and other developments with final
land use approval prior to the effective date of this subchapter, where such
approvals remain in effect;
   (C)   Building additions where the total increase in impervious area
including parking lots, sidewalks and the like is less than 10,000 square feet
except where the stormwater office has identified flooding concerns; and
   (D)   Single-family homes that are not a part of a larger development
(greater than four homes) and disturb less than 10,000 square feet.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.04 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance from any or all requirements of this subchapter may be
granted by the specific approval of the stormwater office. No variance shall be
approved that would ultimately result in failure by the stormwater office to
meet the requirements of any federal or state law. Variance requests that are
denied will list how it diminishes the protective standards from human health
or the environment set forth by this subchapter. A denied variance may be
appealed to the town’s Drainage Board (Board) within 60 days of receipt of the
denial.
   (B)   Requests for variance from the requirements of this subchapter must be
in written form, addressed to the stormwater office and demonstrate the
following:
      (1)   Specify the provision(s) of this subchapter and/or the provision(s)
of the Stormwater Design Manual from which the variance is requested;
      (2)   Clearly state the reason for the variance request and why the
conditions of this subchapter cannot be met; and
      (3)   Describe how the requested variance does not diminish the
protective standards for human health or the environment set forth by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.05 PROVISIONS SUBJECT TO OTHER LAWS.
   This subchapter is not intended to interfere with or annul any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. The
requirements of this subchapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions different from
those imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective
standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take
precedence.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.06 FEES.
   (A)   The fee schedule shall be as established by ordinance.
   (B)   A fee of $25 shall be charged to cover the costs of labor, materials
and equipment used in photocopying these provisions and the town’s Stormwater
Design Manual.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.07 STORMWATER DESIGN MANUAL.
   (A)   The Board has furnished additional policy, criteria and information,
including specifications and standards, for the proper implementation of the
requirements of this subchapter in the form of a Stormwater Design Manual.
   (B)   The manual includes details of acceptable stormwater management and
treatment practices, including specific design criteria for each stormwater
practice. The manual may be updated and expanded as necessary and needed from
time to time by the stormwater office, subject to approval by the Board, based
on improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience. Stormwater treatment practices that are designed and constructed in
accordance with the design and sizing criteria will be presumed to meet the
minimum water quality and quantity performance standards.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The height of the base flood in relation to the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929; commonly referred to as the
100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION.
   BASE FLOODPLAIN. The area inundated by the base flood.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Any structural or nonstructural control
measure utilized to improve the quality and, as appropriate, reduce the
stormwater runoff rate. The term includes schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practice, treatment requirements, operation and maintenance procedures, use
of containment facilities, land use planning, policy techniques and other
practices that comply with the town’s Stormwater Design Manual.
   BOARD. The Town Council.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure constructed or erected partially or wholly
above ground. The term BUILDING includes both the above-ground and the below-
ground portions of the structure.
   BUILDING OPENING. Any opening of a solid wall such as a window or door
through which floodwaters could penetrate.
   CERTIFIED SURVEY FOR MINERAL EXTRACTION. A certified survey demonstrating
the number and proximity of residences located within the closest and most
densely populated quarter mile adjacent to the proposed mineral extraction
site.
   CERTIFY. A statement that a proposed development meets the requirements of
this subchapter.
   CHANNEL. A conveyance intended to carry runoff such as a swale or ditch.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq., as amended, and the applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter that indicates that
FEMA will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodways as shown on an effective FIRM or FBFM, after the as-
built or record drawings confirming the proposed conditions are submitted and
approved.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A letter that
indicates that FEMA will revise the base flood boundaries as shown on an
effective FIRM. This letter does not apply to map revisions involving BFE or
floodway delineation changes.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER RUNOFF. Stormwater runoff from a development
site following a land alteration.
   CONVEYANCE. Any pipe, swale, ditch and the like intended to carry stormwater
from one point to another.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit such as a pipe designed for the conveyance of
surface drainage water under a roadway, railroad, embankment or other
impediment. (See also PIPE SYSTEM.)
   DETENTION. A system which is designed to capture stormwater, store it and
release it over a given period of time through an outlet structure at a
controlled rate.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A human-made structure for the temporary storage of
stormwater runoff with a controlled release during or immediately following a
storm.
   DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT. A land alteration that requires, pursuant to state
law or local ordinance, the approval of a site plan, plat, special land use,
planned unit development, rezoning of land, land division approval, private
road approval or other approvals required for the construction of land or the
erection of buildings or structures; provided, however, that for purposes of
this subchapter only, DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT shall not include the actual
construction of, or an addition, extension or modification to, an individual
single-family or a two-family detached dwelling.
   DEVELOPER. Any person proposing or implementing the development of land.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any land that is being or has been developed, or that a
developer proposes for development.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who directly or indirectly discharges stormwater from
any property. DISCHARGER also means any employee, officer, director, partner,
contractor or other person who participates in, or is legally or factually
responsible for, any act or omission that is or results in a violation of this
subchapter.
   DITCH. An   earthen   conveyance with side slopes steeper than 5:1 or
carrying greater than ten cubic feet per second.
   DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
   DRAINAGE. The collection, conveyance or discharge of groundwater and/or
surface water.
   DRAINAGE FACILITIES. All ditches, channels, conduits, retention-detention
systems, tiles, swales, sewers, and other natural or artificial means of
draining stormwater from land.
   DRAINAGEWAY. The area within which surface water or groundwater is carried
from one part of a lot or parcel to another part of the lot or parcel or to
adjacent land.
   EASEMENT. An authorization grant by a property owner for the use by another
of any designated part of his or her property for a clearly specified purpose
including but not limited to common pedestrian ways and hiking and biking
paths.
   ENGINEER. A person licensed to practice engineering in the state.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away by action of
wind, water, gravity or a combination thereof.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A plan that is designed to minimize the
accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during construction
activities.
   FARM OPERATION. Any of the following activities involved in carrying on a
farm business:
      (1)   Growing, producing, raising or keeping animals or plants, including
mushrooms, or the primary products of those plants or animals;
      (2)   Clearing, draining, irrigating or cultivating land;
      (3)   Using farm machinery, equipment, devices, materials and structures;
      (4)   Applying fertilizers, manure, pesticides and biological control
agents, including by ground and aerial spraying;
      (5)   Conducting any other agricultural activity on, in or over
agricultural land;
      (6)   Intensively cultivating in plantations any specialty wood crops or
specialty fiber crops;
      (7)   Conducting turf production; and
      (8)   Processing or direct marketing the products of a farm owned or
operated by the farmer, as well as products not of that farm to the extent that
the processing or marketing of those products is conducted on the farmer’s
farm.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency of the federal
government charged with emergency management.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A floodplain management map issued
by FEMA that depicts, based on detailed engineering analyses, the boundaries of
the base or 100-year flood, the 50-year flood and the floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map issued by FEMA that is an official
community map, on which FEMA has delineated both the special flood hazard areas
and the insurance risk premium zones applicable to the community. This map may
or may not include floodways.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of
waterbodies or the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface water runoff from
any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area subject to periodic flooding.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any structural and/or nonstructural additions, changes or
adjustments to structures or property that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
land, or improvements, utilities and structures.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE) or FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The base
flood elevation plus two foot at any given location.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of any watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved to carry and discharge a base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one-tenth of a foot due to the
loss of flood conveyance or storage.
   GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling and stockpiling of soil or any
combination thereof and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   GUTTER SPREAD. The spread of water on a roadway surface perpendicular from
the face of the gutter into the driving lane.
   IDEM. The state’s Department of Environmental Management.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any method or means for conveying an illicit discharge
into waterbodies or the town’s stormwater conveyance system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to waterbodies that does not consist
entirely of stormwater, discharges pursuant to the terms of an NPDES permit, or
exempted discharges as defined in this subchapter.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surface that does not allow stormwater runoff to
percolate into the ground such as asphalt, concrete, roofs and gravel.
   LAND ALTERATION.
      (1)   Any action taken relative to land which either:
         (a)   Removes the natural ground cover;
         (b)   Changes the contour;
         (c)   Increases the runoff rate;
         (d)   Changes the elevation;
         (e)   Decreases the rate at which water is absorbed;
         (f)   Changes the drainage pattern;
         (g)   Creates or changes a drainage facility;
         (h)   Involves construction, enlargement or location of any building
on a permanent foundation; or
         (i)   Creates an impoundment.
      (2)   LAND ALTERATION includes (by way of example and not of limitation)
terracing, grading, excavating, constructing earthwork, draining, installing
drainage tile, filling and paving.
   LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed to practice land surveying in the state.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). The official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure or lot is not within a regulatory floodplain due to
naturally occurring high ground (i.e., without fill). A LOMA amends the
effective FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A letter from FEMA that revises base flood
elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodways as shown
on an effective FBFM or FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A letter that provides formal
recognition by FEMA that either a parcel of property or a structure has been
removed from the base or 100-year floodplain due to elevation based on the
placement of fill. This letter does not apply to map revisions involving BFE or
floodway delineation changes.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor or the lowest enclosed area (including a
basement), but not including an unfinished or floodproof enclosure that is
usable solely for parking of vehicles or building access.
   MAINTENANCE. Cleaning, removing obstructions from and making minor repairs
to a drainage facility so that it will perform the function for which it was
designed and constructed.
   MANUFACTURED BMP. A structural BMP designed for stormwater quality treatment
constructed of a combination of human-made materials at an off-site facility.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal of oil, gas, coal, ore, gravel, sand,
aggregate or other resources from below the surface of the land.
   MS4. Municipal separate storm sewer system as defined by 327 I.A.C. 15-6-4
(12).
   NFIP. The national flood insurance program. The requirements of the NFIP are
codified in 44 C.F.R.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined and discrete conveyances and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal, dumping and urban runoff sources.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   NONSTRUCTURAL BMP. A BMP that is not constructed by physical means of land
disturbance such as education, public information handouts and the like.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   OVERLAND FLOW-WAY. Surface area that conveys a concentrated flow of
stormwater runoff.
   PEAK STORM. The storm of a specified return period that produces the maximum
runoff from a site or the maximum elevation in a detention pond. Storm
durations of one-half-, one, two, three, six, 12 and 24 hours shall be used to
determine the PEAK STORM.
   PERIMETER DRAIN. A subsurface pipe network designed and installed around the
perimeter of a septic field for the purpose of effectively collecting and
draining away excess subsurface waters.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality or any other legal entity.
   PIPE SYSTEM. Two or more pipes connected together by one or more structures
such as a manhole designed to convey stormwater runoff.
   PLAN. Written narratives, specifications, drawings, sketches, written
standards, operating procedures or any combination of these which contain
information pursuant to this subchapter.
   POLLUTANT. A substance which causes or contributes to pollution which
includes, but is not limited to the following: Any dredged soil; solid waste;
vehicle fluids; yard wastes (includes grass clippings); animal wastes (includes
pet waste); agricultural waste products; sediment; incinerator residue; sewage;
garbage; sewage sludge; munitions; chemical wastes; biological wastes;
radioactive materials; heat; wrecked or discharged equipment; rock; sand;
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, commercial and agricultural waste; or
any other contaminant or other substance defined as a pollutant under the Clean
Water Act.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the quality of
waters by waste to a degree which unreasonably affects or has the potential to
unreasonably affect either the waters for beneficial uses or the facilities
which serve these beneficial uses.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to property,
having a contractual interest in property, or any person having or exercising
care, custody or control over any property.
   RECLAMATION PLAN FOR MINERAL EXTRACTION. A document illustrating drainage
patterns, both existing and proposed, at a mineral extraction site; proposed
erosion control and off-site sedimentation control of the site; and proposed
final land use and post construction stormwater quality BMPs for the site, all
of which are documented at the initial approval of the SWMP and at ten-year
intervals following the approval of a SWMP.
   RECORD DRAWINGS. Drawings prepared, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer or land surveyor representing the final “as-built” record of the
actual in-place elevations, location of structures and topography.
   REGISTERED PROFESSION. An engineer, land surveyor or architect license under
the laws of the state to practice the respective profession.
   REGULATED DRAIN. A drain, either open channel or closed tile/sewer, subject
to the provisions of the state’s Drainage Code, I.C. 36-9-27.
   RETENTION. A system that is designed to capture stormwater and contain it
until it infiltrates into the soil or evaporates.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, pedestrian-way, hiking path, biking path, crosswalk, railroad, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer
main, special landscaping, drainage or for another special use. The usage of
the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-
of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included
within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended
for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, screening
or special landscaping, or any other use involving maintenance by the Town
Council shall be dedicated to public use by the subdivider on whose plat such
RIGHT-OF-WAY is established. All divisions of land along existing roadways
shall dedicate half RIGHT-OF-WAY for public purposes along its entire frontage
in the amount as specified for the classification of the existing roadway.
   ROADWAY DRAINAGE. The runoff and drainage located within 20 feet of the edge
of public and/or private roadways adjacent to, abutting or within the
boundaries of the property to be addressed in a proposed stormwater management
submittal.
   RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of the soils of
that basin.
   SOIL EROSION. The stripping of soil and weathered rock from land creating
sediment for transportation by water, wind or ice, and enabling formation of
new sedimentary deposits.
   STORM DRAIN. A system of open or enclosed conduits and appurtenant
structures intended to convey or manage stormwater runoff, groundwater and
drainage.
   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities operated by the town or
easements on private property by which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed,
including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, streets, gutters,
curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention
basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage channels, ditches, swales,
reservoirs and other drainage structures which are within the town and are not
part of a publicly-owned treatment works as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from rain storm events.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP). An engineered drainage plan that
effectively addresses and manages stormwater runoff and discharge.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN APPROVAL (SWMPA). An approval issued pursuant to
this subchapter from the stormwater office that states all requirements of this
subchapter have been met.
   STORMWATER OFFICE. The town’s Stormwater Department office.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality within a municipal separate storm sewer
system area.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The runoff and drainage of precipitation resulting from
rainfall or snowmelt or other natural event or process.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF FACILITY. The method, structure, area, system or other
equipment or measures that are designed to receive, control, store or convey
stormwater.
   STREAM. A river, stream or creek which may or may not be serving as a drain,
or any other waterbody that has definite banks, a bed and visible evidence of a
continued flow or continued occurrence of water.
   STRUCTURAL BMP. A structure designed and constructed for the purpose of
stormwater quality treatment.
   SWALE. A depressed earthen designed to convey stormwater runoff, with side
slopes 5:1 or shallower and conveying no more than ten cfs.
   USACOE. The United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   USEPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   WATERBODY. A river, lake, stream, creek or other watercourse or wetlands.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME (WQV). The storage needed to capture and treat the
volume of rainfall for 90% of the storm events which produce runoff in the
watershed annually.
   WATERSHED. A region draining into a waterbody.
   WETLANDS. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support wetland vegetation or aquatic life.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.09 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN APPROVALS.
   (A)   Any person or landowner who develops or engages in development
activities on land or a development site subject to the provisions of this
subchapter must first obtain a stormwater management plan approval (SWMPA) from
the stormwater office. A permit is obtained by first submitting a stormwater
management plan (SWMP) to the stormwater office, which shall include the
following:
      (1)   Complete set of plans including a title page with location and
vicinity maps, existing and proposed condition plan sheets, construction
details and erosion control plans all sealed by a registered professional. A
plan and profile of the proposed drainage system shall be provided. Individual
sheets shall be required for existing topography, proposed topography, erosion
control, plan and profiles and details. All sheets shall be 24 inches by 36
inches;
      (2)   Mineral extraction operations seeking a SWMPA shall submit the
following additional materials with their proposed stormwater management plan
(SWMP): A certified survey showing the number and proximity of residents within
the adjoining area (per 312 I.A.C. 2-3-2); a copy of the approved driveway
permit with all transportation and drainage easements and rights-of-way granted
by the applicant along public ways and waterways; and a reclamation plan. Any
changes in a plan approved by the stormwater office must be submitted to the
stormwater office and re-approved as a revision. Additional hourly review fees
will be applicable to this revision review;
      (3)   A drainage narrative describing the existing and proposed
conditions and runoff patterns and complete documentation of all calculations
and assumptions. This narrative shall be sealed by a registered professional;
and
      (4)   All SWMP submittals must meet the requirements of this subchapter
and the provisions of the Stormwater Design Manual. A written narrative is
required with the submittal stating that the drainage plans are in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and the Stormwater Design Manual.
   (B)   The stormwater office may require such additional information to be
included in a drainage plan that is necessary to evaluate and determine the
adequacy of the proposed drainage and water quality facilities.
   (C)   At such time as the stormwater office determines that all requirements
of this subchapter are met, a formal notice of approval (SWMPA) shall be issued
by the stormwater office.
   (D)   Any construction project holding a SWMPA, determined to be
inconsistent with plans previously approved by the stormwater office may be
subject to the provisions of §
152.17 of this code. Any changes in a set of SWMP approved by the stormwater
office must be submitted to the stormwater office and re-approved as a
revision. Additional hourly review fees will be applicable to this revision
review.
   (E)   A SWMPA shall expire two calendar years from the date of issuance. At
expiration previously permitted development underway may continue construction
activities under the terms of the original SWMPA. Previously approved
development not underway at the time of expiration shall be required to obtain
a new SWMPA per this subchapter prior to the initiation of construction
activities.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.10 DETENTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Detention shall be required for all proposed developments where the
runoff rate from the proposed post-developed conditions shall increase when
compared to the pre-developed conditions. In addition, detention may be
required for any development in areas where downstream flooding has been
identified by the stormwater office. The pre- and post-developed runoff rates
shall be determined using methodologies specified in the town’s Stormwater
Design Manual.
   (B)   The following requirements shall be fulfilled for all detention
facilities.
      (1)   The runoff from the developed condition peak storm with a 100-year
return period storm shall be limited to the runoff rate from the pre-developed
condition peak storm with a ten-year return period storm.
      (2)   The runoff from the developed condition peak storm with a ten-year
return period storm shall be limited to the runoff rate from the pre-developed
condition peak storm with a two-year return period storm.
      (3)   There shall be no increase in the runoff rate from the pre-
developed conditions to the post-developed conditions for all storms at all
discharge points along the property line.
      (4)   An adequate downstream receiving facility shall be identified on
the plans. There shall be no increase in erosion potential on the adjoining
properties.
      (5)   Earthen embankments, dams and/or berms designed and constructed to
detain or impound stormwater shall be designed using criteria specified in the
town’s Stormwater Design Manual.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.11 CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Conveyance structures (outfalls, pipes, swales ditches, culverts and the
like) shall be designed in accordance to the town’s Stormwater Design Manual to
fulfill the following requirements.
   (A)   Outfalls. All proposed pipe outfalls shall have an adequate receiving
facility identified on the plans. There shall be no increase in erosion and
sedimentation on adjoining properties.
   (B)   Pipe systems.
      (1)   All pipe systems shall accommodate the ten-year storm event with
the hydraulic gradeline in the crown of the pipe. In addition, an overflow
route to the detention structure shall be provided for the flows resulting from
storms with a return period greater than the ten-year.
      (2)   In situations where an overflow route to the detention structure
cannot be created, the pipes shall be designed with the 100-year hydraulic
gradeline runoff below the top of casting or provide an easement encompassing
the 100-year inundated areas.
   (C)   Inlets.
      (1)   Inlets shall be located to limit gutter spread during the ten-year
storm event such that one lane, based on the roadway width, is open. Multi-lane
roadways shall maintain one clear driving lane in both directions.
      (2)   Inlets shall have the capacity to accommodate the ten-year storm or
the 100-year storm where overflow channels are not provided.
   (D)   Culverts.
      (1)   Culverts under roadways designated as thoroughfares, arterials or
that provide the only means of ingress and egress to developments shall
accommodate the 100-year flow to the culvert without overtopping the roadway.
      (2)   Culverts under collector roadways (those roadways connected to
designated thoroughfares and arterials) shall accommodate the 50-year flow to
the culvert without overtopping the roadway.
      (3)   All other roadway culverts shall accommodate the 25-year flow to
the culvert without overtopping the roadway.
      (4)   Driveway culverts shall accommodate the ten-year flow to the
culvert without overtopping the driveway.
   (E)   Lift stations. Lift stations shall not be designed as part of a
stormwater conveyance system. Proposed stormwater lift stations will only be
reviewed (if complete documentation of no other reasonable option is provided.
Stormwater lift stations will be approved on a case-by-case basis.
   (F)   Swales. Swales shall be designed to accommodate the ten-year storm
runoff within the proposed banks.
   (G)   Ditches. Proposed ditches shall accommodate the 100-year runoff within
the banks or a designated easement.
   (H)   Perimeter drain collection. All residential development regulated by
this subchapter shall indicate on their plans an appropriately sized, common
collection swale, ditch or subsurface pipe structure that provides a positive
discharge, collects and effectively conveys perimeter drain discharge to an
appropriate off-site outlet.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.12 EMERGENCY-ACCESS EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Emergency-access easements shall be provided to the town as follows.
   (A)   Detention structures. Detention structures serving drainage basins
greater than 10,000 square feet or receiving runoff from off-site or being
dedicated to the town shall have an emergency-access easement around the 100-
year flood elevation. This emergency-access easement shall include all release
control devices. The minimum emergency-access easement requirements for
detention structures shall be designated in the town’s Stormwater Design
Manual.
   (B)   Conveyance systems.
      (1)   An emergency-access easement shall be provided for all conveyance
systems that will be accepted by the town and/or be located adjacent to public
or private roads or ways or lead to public conveyance systems located adjacent
to public or private roads or ways, maintained by a homeowners’ association or
receive off-site runoff. The minimum emergency-access easement requirements for
conveyance systems shall be designated in the town’s Stormwater Design Manual.
      (2)   The owner of the property shall be responsible for maintenance of
the property’s drainage facilities. The granting of an emergency-access to the
town does not alter the property owner’s duty to maintain the property’s
drainage facilities.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.13 FLOOD CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Waterbodies, roadways, structures and other property in the town are
subjected to flooding. In order to help minimize the occurrence and impact of
flooding resulting in the loss of life and/or property, the following are
required:
      (1)   FEMA studied waterways.
         (a)   FEMA floodway/floodplain delineation. All plans submitted shall
have the floodway (FW) and floodplain (FP) delineated on the grading plan(s) as
scaled from the FEMA flood insurance rate maps. A reference to the panel number
and date of the map shall also be included. Where no FW is delineated, the
entire floodplain shall be assumed to be the FW.
         (b)   One hundred-year base flood elevation (BFE). The 100-year BFE
shall be noted on the grading plan(s). This BFE shall be determined using the
flood insurance study (FIS) and the appropriate plate. A note referencing the
plate number and date shall be included on the plans.
      (2)   Non-FEMA studied waterways (greater than one square mile drainage
basin). DNR floodway/floodplain delineation: All plans shall have the FW and FP
delineated as determined by the DNR. A note referencing the DNR determination
and a copy of the DNR response letter shall be provided prior to approval by
the town’s Drainage Board.
      (3)   Basins less than one square mile in area. Floodplain delineation:
All waterways with drainage basins less than one square mile and greater than
25 acres shall have the 100-year BFE determined by methods outlined in the
town’s Stormwater Design Manual and delineated on the plans. Complete
documentation of this determination shall be included with the submission.
   (B)   No structures shall be located in a FEMA or DNR designated floodway.
No structures shall be located within the floodplain of drainage basins less
than one square mile unless a floodway determination is conducted.
   (C)   The lowest finished floor of all structures located within a
floodplain shall have a two-foot flood protection grade (FPG) with respect to
the lowest floor of the structure.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.14 WATER QUALITY.
   Water quality considerations shall be incorporated in the submitted SWMPs
and specifications in accordance with the town’s Stormwater Design Manual to
fulfill the following requirements.
   (A)   Pretreatment requirements.
      (1)   Every stormwater treatment practice shall have an acceptable form
of water quality pretreatment, in accordance with the pretreatment requirements
found in the current Stormwater Design Manual.
      (2)   Stormwater infiltration practices, or practices having an
infiltration component, as specified in the Stormwater Design Manual, are
prohibited, even with pretreatment, in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Where stormwater is generated from highly contaminated source
areas as identified by the IDEM, USEPA or the stormwater office;
         (b)   Where stormwater is carried in a conveyance system that also
carries contaminated, non-stormwater discharges;
         (c)   Where stormwater is being managed in a designated groundwater
recharge or well head protection area; or
         (d)   Under certain geologic conditions (e.g., karst) that prohibit
the proper pretreatment of stormwater.
   (B)   Treatment/geometry conditions. All stormwater management practices
shall be designed to capture and treat stormwater runoff according to the
specifications outlined in the Stormwater Design Manual. These specifications
will designate the water quality treatment and water quantity criteria that
apply to an approved stormwater management practices.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.15 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Construction activities required as part of land development
necessitate the removal of natural ground cover, creating the potential for
erosion to occur.
   (B)   To minimize the movement of soil off-site and its impact on water
quality and on the ability of stormwater facilities to continue functioning
properly, the following are required.
      (1)   All persons who cause, in whole or in part, any earth change to
occur shall provide soil erosion and sedimentation control so as to adequately
prevent soils from being eroded and discharged or deposited onto adjacent
properties or into a stormwater drainage system, a public street or right-of-
way, wetland, creek, stream, waterbody or floodplain.
      (2)   All development shall be in accordance with all applicable federal,
state and local ordinances, rules and regulations.
      (3)   (a)   If the owner or operator is required to prepare an erosion
and sediment control plan (ESCP) as legislated by Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5),
such plan shall be deemed to fulfill the requirements of this subchapter. In
this case, all applicable state and federal permits or notices for land-
disturbing activities shall be obtained or filed prior to commencement of land-
disturbing activities. All applicable state or federal standards shall be
adhered to when conducting land-disturbing activities. Copies of all
applications, letters of intent submittals, plans and other erosion and
sediment control related information developed for and/or submitted to state or
federal authorities shall be copied to the stormwater office in addition to the
ESCP.
         (b)   In addition to the requirements of Rule 5, any person disturbing
property for construction of new buildings that will require regrading,
alteration or disturbance of the property outside of a five-foot perimeter
around the structure shall also require the filing of an erosion control
permit. Plans for individual lots may be submitted on eight and one-half inches
by 11 inches paper as long as the scale does not exceed 50 feet to one inch.
      (4)   Prior to making any earth change on a development site regulated by
this subchapter, the developer shall first obtain a soil erosion permit the
town. The developer shall install stormwater runoff facilities and shall phase
the development activities so as to prevent construction site stormwater runoff
and off-site sedimentation.
      (5)   During all construction activities on the development site, the
stormwater office or their representative may inspect the development site to
ensure compliance with the approved construction site runoff controls.
      (6)   All methods used shall comply with the Indiana Handbook for Erosion
Control.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.16 REPORTING.
   (A)   The stormwater office or an appointed representative shall report in
the month of July of each year to the Board an account of the status of these
provisions.
   (B)   The report shall contain no less than the following:
      (1)   The number of drainage reviews completed;
      (2)   The number of stormwater management plan approvals granted;
      (3)   The number of water quality best management practices approved and
installed in the town;
      (4)   The number of erosion and sediment control plans reviewed, by the
Stormwater Department or their representative;
      (5)   An accounting of total fees collected and dispersed as directed by
ordinance;
      (6)   A statement as to the effectiveness of the ordinance to address
ongoing drainage issues and concerns within the town; and
      (7)   A statement as to the adequacy of the established fees to
effectively cover expenses associated with the administration and
implementation of these provisions.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the case of non-compliance with this subchapter or the Stormwater
Design Manual, the stormwater office has the right to issue abatement orders,
stop work orders, injunctions and/or revoke stormwater management plan
approvals and to issue fines for violations pursuant to §
152.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   If the applicant commences work for which the stormwater
management plan approval (SWMPA) is required without compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter, the review fee shall be increased to an amount
necessary to cover enforcement costs and fines. If work for which the SWMPA is
required is completed or substantially completed by the applicant without
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, the review fee shall be
increased to $2,500.
      (2)   There shall be a reinstatement fee of $500 for stop work order.
   (C)   The stormwater office may revoke a SWMPA where the submittal packet,
plans and/or other supporting documents reflect either:
      (1)   A false statement or misrepresentation as to material fact; or
      (2)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   Whenever the stormwater office discovers the existence of any of the
circumstances listed below, it is empowered to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the land alteration. The stop work order shall be in writing and
shall state to what land alteration it is applicable and the reason for its
issuance. One copy of the stop work order shall be posted on the property in a
conspicuous place and one copy shall be delivered to the applicant, and if
conveniently possible to the person doing the land alteration and to the owner
of the property or his or her agent. The stop work order shall state the
conditions under which land alteration may be resumed. A stop work order shall
be issued if:
      (1)   Land alteration is occurring in violation of a drainage requirement
and in such manner that if land alteration is allowed to proceed, there is a
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
      (2)   Land alteration has been accomplished in violation of a drainage
requirement and 15 calendar days has elapsed since written notice of the
violation or noncompliance was either posted on the property in a conspicuous
place or given to the person doing the land alteration, without the violation
or noncompliance being corrected; or
      (3)   Land alteration for which a SWMPA is required is proceeding without
a SWMPA being in force. In such an instance, the stop work order shall indicate
that the effect of the order terminates when the required SWMPA is obtained.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012)
§ 152.18 FACILITY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer/owners to maintain all
detention/retention facilities and drainage easements on their property. If
there are more than one lot or holding served by the facility this shall be
documented on the property deeds and recorded on the plat unless responsibility
is formally accepted by a public body. This shall be determined prior to final
drainage plan approval.
   (B)   Failure of the developer/owner to maintain such easements or
facilities as approved in the original plan shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect, dump or otherwise
discharge any substance or item not directly related to stormwater into any
part of the storm drain system without written permission from the appropriate
agency.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Cause or allow an illicit discharge to the storm drain system or
any component thereof, or onto driveways, sidewalks, parking lots sinkholes,
creek banks or other areas that may drain to the storm drain system;
      (2)   Connect or allow to be connected any sanitary sewer to the storm
drain system, including any sanitary sewer or septic system connected as of the
date this subchapter is adopted;
      (3)   Connect or allow to be connected any stormwater system to a
sanitary sewer without the written permission of the owner;
      (4)   Dump, deposit, release, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, discharge,
inject, bury or dispose of any oil, anti-freeze, herbicide, pesticide,
fungicide, animal, pet or human excrement or any other solid, liquid or
hazardous waste to any part of the storm drain system or on any public or
private premises in the town; or
      (5)   Dispose of any leaves, brush, sticks, dirt, landscape debris or
other yard waste (which includes grass clippings) to any part of the storm
drain system. This would include the blowing of grass, leaves or other yard
waste by mower or any other means into any part of the storm drain system.
(Ord. 3, 2012, passed 1- -2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
§ 152.30 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the town through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This subchapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the utility of the
town designated to enforce this subchapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPS also
include treatment practices, operating procedures and practices of control site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more. Such CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES include but are not limited to
clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted by this subchapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows any illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system,
including but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater
discharge including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency;
or any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by the state) that authorizes the discharge
of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable
on an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: Paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes
(including grass clippings); refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other
discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances and accumulations, so that same may
cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and
fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal and pet waste; wastes and
residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or
offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the BMPs
and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of
pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce
pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems and/or
receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   USER. Any person, corporation or entity discharging into the town’s storm
sewer system (MS4) which shall include the town’s storm drainage system.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater
discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.32 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.33 ADMINISTRATION.
   The town’s Stormwater Department shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated by the Stormwater Coordinator to
persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the agency.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.34 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore, this subchapter does not intend nor imply
that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.35 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or water courses any
materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
      (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter: Water line flushing or other potable water
sources; landscape irrigation or lawn watering; diverted stream flows; rising
groundwater; groundwater infiltration to storm drains; uncontaminated pumped
groundwater; foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater de-
watering systems); crawl space pumps; air conditioning condensation; springs;
non-commercial washing of vehicles; natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;
swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than one PPM chlorine);
firefighting activities; and any other water source not containing pollutants
as long as proper methods are applied to ensure there will be no erosion caused
by the procedure;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test; and
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency; provided, that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
utility may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter
may have his or her MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a
violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may
petition the authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit shall comply with all provisions of such
permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the utility prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.38 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   This section applies to all facilities that have stormwater discharges
associated with industrial activity including construction activity.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow the utility ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater and the performance of any additional duties as defined by
state and federal law.
   (C)   The utility shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the utility to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s stormwater discharge.
   (D)   The utility has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the utility and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the utility access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this
subchapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the utility reasonable access to the permitted facility for
the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this
subchapter.
   (G)   If the utility has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater has been discharged and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any
order issued hereunder or to protect the overall public heath, safety and
welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.39 PREVENTION, CONTROL AND REDUCTION OF STORMWATER POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   The utility will adopt requirements identifying BMPs for any activity,
operation or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system or waters of the United
States.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at his, her or their own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and
nonstructural BMPs. Further, any persons responsible for a property or premise,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural and nonstructural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system.
   (C)   Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit
authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to
the extent practicable, shall be deemed stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.40 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or
such person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
within the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other
obstacles that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of
water through the watercourse.
   (B)   In addition, the owner of lessee shall maintain existing privately-
owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse so that such structures
will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical integrity of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.41 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of the law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system or water of the
United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the
authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than
the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed
by written notice addressed and mailed to the utility within three business
days of the phone notice.
   (B)   If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the utility finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the authorized enforcement
agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible
person.
   (B)   Such notice may require without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analysis and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operation shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs. If
abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is required,
the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation or
restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 APPEALS.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the utility. The notice of appeal must be received within three days from the
date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the Town Court
shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of
appeal. The decision of the Town Court shall be final.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.44 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   (A)   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements
set forth in the notice of violation, or in the event of an appeal, within
three days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of
the utility, then representatives of the authorized enforcement agency shall
enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or agent in possession of
any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor
to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.45 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within three days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within 15 days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the utility or by the expiration of the
time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment
against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount
of the assessment.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail
to comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of
this subchapter, the authorized enforcement agency may petition for a
preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities
which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform
abatement of remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this subchapter, the utility may impose upon a violator alternative
compensatory actions such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance
workshops, creek cleanup and the like.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.48 VIOLATIONS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare and is
declared and deemed a nuisance and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.49 EXPENSES.
   The authorized enforcement agency, the town’s Stormwater Utility Department,
may recover all attorneys’ fees, court costs and other expenses associated with
enforcement of this subchapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 152.50 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   Remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
   (B)   Violation of this subchapter shall also be subject to the fine
structure set out in §
152.99 of this code, with violations to be cited into the Town Court through a
ticket issued through the authorized enforcement agency, the town’s Stormwater
Utility Department. The penalties provided for in these respective ordinances
shall not be mutually exclusive.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of this chapter shall be cited into the Town Court for
enforcement purposes.
   (C)   Violation of §§
152.01 through
152.19 of this code, pursuant to enforcement provisions provided therein, shall
be subject to payment of a fine to cover administrative and related costs and
shall also be subject to court costs along with a minimum fine of $25 and a
maximum fine of up to $2,500 dependent upon the violation, any prior violations
and other costs of enforcement administratively based on time and dollars
expended by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Violations of §§
152.30 through
152.50 of this code, pursuant to enforcement provisions provided therein, shall
be subject to court costs along with a minimum fine of $25 and a maximum fine
up to $2,500, dependent on the type of violation, the number of prior
violations, other costs of enforcement administratively based on time and
dollars expended by the town.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
152.45 of this code shall become liable to the town by reason of such
violation. The liability shall be paid in not more than 15 days following
discovery of the violation.
      (3)   The town further adopts the scale for violations and further
approves the form of the ticket to be used for citing violators with a
recommendation of the proposed minimum and maximum fines to be set by the
enforcement authority (town’s Stormwater Department) for violators choosing to
pay out of court with the above scale to apply to violations resolved by
payment through the “no contest” procedure. It is understood that the
administrative costs could increase through a court proceeding where additional
evidence is presented to show the administrative cost and other related costs
that a violator could be subject to based upon evidence presented in the Town
Court proceeding.
      (4)   It is understood that Rule 5 and Rule 6 violations associated with
other town ordinances will be used for this same process through the Town Court
and ticketing procedure set out by the town’s Stormwater Department.
      (5)   It is further designated that the Stormwater Department shall be
the enforcement authority under §§
152.30 through
152.50 of this code and shall use a ticketing procedure for the citation.
      (6)   The scale for violations is as follows.
Violation Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
Violation                         Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
Animal waste                      $25          $500
Construction violation            $100         $2,500
Dumping into catch basin          $50          $500
Grass clippings                   $25          $500
Illicit connection to storm sewer $100         $500
Industrial violation              $100         $2,500
Open dumping                      $25          $500
Post-construction BMP violation   $100         $2,500
Stormwater conveyance violation   $25          $500
Tracking                          $25          $500
 
(Ord. 4, 2012, passed - -; Ord. 2, 2012, passed 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
153.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.12   Interpretation
   
153.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.25   Floodplain Administrator designation; duties; responsibilities
   
153.26   Permit procedures
   
153.27   Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.28   Variance and appeals procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.43   Critical facilities
   
153.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
153.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
153.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
153.47   Standards for flood prone areas
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately floodproofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood
insurance program.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as ZONE A, ZONE AE, ZONES A1-A30,
ZONE AH, ZONE AO, ZONE AR and ZONE A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris-impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and the portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. The portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive or requires the property owner to build elsewhere
or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997 will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA), LETTER OF MAP REVISION
(LOMR) and LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: To protect people and structures; and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is: Built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters for
recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
153.07 of this code. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAS of the town are
generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map for the county and
incorporated areas dated October 2, 2014 as well as any future updates,
amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-
A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure.”
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically-designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FlRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FlRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
town’s jurisdiction.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood.
   (B)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county and
incorporated areas and the corresponding flood insurance rate map dated October
2, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the flood insurance rate map for the county and incorporated areas dated
October 2, 2014, as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources; provided, that the upstream drainage area from
the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with
better data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this
data must be submitted to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for
review and subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources; provided, that the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions, however, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources
or the state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATION; DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Designation. The Town Council appoints the Building Inspector to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The Floodplain Administrator and/or
designated staff is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations
of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and purpose. Duties and
responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
153.44 and
153.46(A) of this code, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.26 of this code;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
153.26 of this code;
      (13)   Issue stop work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval
issued under the provisions of this chapter in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a Floodplain Development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See § 153.25
(B)(6) of this code for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a
floodproofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.27 VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.28 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in
other sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
153.44 and
153.46(A) of this code may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
153.44 and
153.46(A) of this code will require a permit from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.41 of this code may be granted only when a new structure is to be located
on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots
with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the state’s Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See division (C) below.)
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See division (C)
below.)
   (C)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
flood protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases
risks to life and property.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (D)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an “historic structure,” and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (E)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in
this section and §
153.27 of this code, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new constructions as contained herein.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   General. In addition to the requirements of §
153.40 of this code, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This provision does not apply to returning the
existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was
removed to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential structures. New construction or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure (or manufactured
home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be floodproofed to
or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu of being
elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
153.25(B)(12) of this code.
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully-enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one-foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading, if vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully-enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
wails below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
shall be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement
         (b)   Fully-enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, being attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices and having no permanently
attached additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated in
division (F) above.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above-ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.43 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.07 of this code, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry
debris, potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like, undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions or improvements
to existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-
1-26 allows construction of a non-substantial addition or improvement to a
residence in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for
construction in the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing
grade, prior approval for the fill is required from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development permit,
provided the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The
Floodplain Development permit cannot be less restrictive than the permit for
construction in a floodway issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which, acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will adversely affect the efficiency of,
or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is defined
as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-
hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation
under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition
as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit, provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The key provision is
that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure
shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.46 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued, provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the regulatory flood more than fourteen-hundredths of one
foot and will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
153.27 and
153.28 of this code.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the town’s Unified Development Ordinance. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 8-19-2014)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
154.01   Criteria for Economic Revitalization Area designations
   
154.02   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.03   Comprehensive Plan adopted
   
154.04   Unified Development Ordinance adopted
§ 154.01 CRITERIA FOR ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREA DESIGNATIONS.
   The following procedure for designating an Economic Revitalization Area is
pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a property owner desires that certain real estate
located in the jurisdiction of the Town Council be designated as an Economic
Revitalization Area, the owners shall initiate the procedure by filing an
application for designation in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The
application shall be signed by the owners of record of the real estate for
which the designation is being requested. The Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish an
appropriate form for such application upon request.
      (2)   The petitioner(s) shall note on the application whether the request
is being made for a designation:
         (a)   Limited to a deduction of assessed value on real property
improvements;
         (b)   Limited to a deduction of assessed value on new manufacturing
equipment as defined in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1; or
         (c)   To include both types of deduction allowed under I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1.
      (3)   Upon receipt of an application for designation, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall:
         (a)   Note the date of filing on the face of the application;
         (b)   Review said application and, if it is found to be in complete
form and to have been signed by all property owner(s) of record within the area
proposed for designation, the matter shall be submitted for consideration
before the Town Council within 60 days of the date of acceptable submission;
and
         (c)   Provide the Council with appropriate maps and plats necessary to
identify the area for which the petition requests designation, along with a
simplified description of its boundaries.
      (4)   The Council shall not consider an application for designation of
real estate as an Economic Revitalization Area if, prior to the filing of the
application with the Clerk-Treasurer, any of the following actions have
occurred:
         (a)   An improvement location permit for the subject development for
which a deduction is being sought has been issued by the Building Commissioner;
         (b)   A structural permit for the subject rehabilitation of which a
deduction is being sought has been issued by the Building Commission; or
         (c)   Manufacturing equipment for which a deduction is being sought
has been installed.
      (5)   The applicant(s) or its representative shall be present at the
Council meeting at which the subject request is being considered. After review
of the information provided in the application by the staff, the applicant and
other interested persons, the Council may:
         (a)   Find the real estate under consideration meets the definition
and standards of an Economic Revitalization Area, as set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-1(l) and division (F) below. In such instances the Council may adopt a
declaratory resolution stating same and cause the actions set forth in division
(A)(6) below to occur. Said declaratory resolution shall include the reasons
upon which the determination is made;
         (b)   Find that there is insufficient information and defer action on
the matter. The applicant shall be provided written notices of the reasons for
deferral within ten days of that action; and
         (c)   Determine that the real estate should not be designated as an
Economic Revitalization Area and provide the applicant with written notice
thereof.
      (6)   Upon adoption of a declaratory resolution the Council shall:
         (a)   Set the date, time and location for a public hearing at which
the Council will receive and hear all comments from interested persons;
         (b)   Cause notice of the adoption and substance of the declaratory
resolution to be published in accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5 and 5-3-1. The
notice shall state that a description of the affected area is available and can
be inspected in the offices of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the County Assessor
and the County Auditor. The notices shall also state the time, date and
location of the subsequent public hearing on the matter; and
         (c)   Cause a generalized description of the subject real estate to be
attached to the declaratory resolution and file same with the County Assessor
and the County Auditor.
      (7)   Upon consideration of the evidence presented at the public hearing,
the Council shall take final action on the request for designation, by either
confirming, modifying and confirming or rescinding the subject declaratory
resolution. The applicant(s) or its representative shall be present at the
public hearing to provide such information as may be needed.
      (8)   The determination on the confirmatory resolution made pursuant to
division (A)(7) above shall be final, except that an appeal may be taken as
provided in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d) and 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(e).
      (9)   Upon confirming, or modifying and confirming, a declaratory
resolution by the procedures set forth herein, both the County Auditor and the
Planning Commission shall keep a permanent record of the designation of the
Economic Revitalization Area. The Planning Commission shall also provide the
Auditor with a final designation packet to be utilized in the review of
applications for deduction pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5 and 6-1.1-12.5-5.
   (B)   (1)   In its deliberations on designating an Economic Revitalization
Area the Council may, pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2(e), give consideration to
the following general standards to determine if:
         (a)   The designation will encourage the use of vacant or under-
utilized land designated as appropriate for industrial development in the
town’s Comprehensive Plan or which is currently zoned for industrial use;
         (b)   The proposed use of the real estate for which designation is
being requested is consistent with the land use policies contained in the
town’s Comprehensive Plan;
         (c)   The designation will encourage the improvement of a deteriorated
structure or the replacement of an obsolete structure;
         (d)   The designation will encourage the preservation of a
historically or architecturally significant structure;
         (e)   The designation will assist in the inducement of a project
providing substantial employment opportunities relative to the value of the
improvements to be made and/or the new manufacturing equipment to be installed;
and
         (f)   The designation will assist in the inducement of a project which
would provide long-term benefits to the tax base of the town warranting the
granting of the annually decreasing percentage of tax abatement as provided in
I.C. 6-1.1-12.1.
      (2)   In all instances, the Council shall find that evidence has been
provided either in the application or during the public hearing that the real
estate proposed for designation in an area which has become undesirable for, or
impossible of, normal development and occupancy because of a lack of
development, cessation of growth, deterioration of improvement or character of
occupancy, age, obsolescence, substandard buildings or other factors which have
impaired values or prevent a normal development of property or use of property.
   (C)   As part of its authority to designate Economic Revitalization Areas,
the Council, pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2(g), may qualify a designation by:
      (1)   Limiting the time period of the designation to a certain number of
calendar years during which the area shall be so designated; or
      (2)   Limiting the type of deductions that will be allowed within an
Economic Revitalization Area to either the deduction allowed under I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-3 or the deduction allowed under I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the procedures set forth in division (A) above, the
Town Council shall not designate real estate as an Economic Revitalization Area
if any portion of the subject property is located within an “allocation area,”
as defined in I.C. 36-7-14-39, unless the town’s Redevelopment Commission has
first adopted a resolution consenting to the subject designation.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Council does hereby designate the Economic Development
Director (EDD) as the administrative agent for processing applications for the
designation of Economic Revitalization Areas. The EDD, in accordance with its
responsibilities under this delegation, may undertake the following actions:
         (a)   Accept applications for designation;
         (b)   Review said applications for completeness and provide the
Council with supporting data necessary to properly consider such requests;
         (c)   Keep permanent records of all properly filed applications and
duly designated Economic Revitalization Areas;
         (d)   Prepare public review files as necessary to comply with I.C. 6-
1.1-12.1-2.5(c); or
         (e)   Act on behalf of the Council in corresponding with the applicant
(s) and other interested persons regarding the status of an application for
designation.
      (2)   The Economic Development Director may delegate any or all of the
above described responsibilities to his or her staff.
   (F)   Applicant shall be responsible for providing the EDD with the
following:
      (1)   The preparation and publication of legal notice of the Council’s
consideration of said applicant as required in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c);
      (2)   The applicant shall prepare the draft declaratory and confirmatory
resolutions for the Council’s review and consideration;
      (3)   The applicant shall prepare and provide the County Auditor with
final designation packets which shall include information necessary for the
review of applications for deductions pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5 and 6-1.1-
12.1-5.6.
(Res. 6-1992, passed 9-15-1992)
§ 154.02 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Time. Any appeal from any decision of the town’s Plan Commission, or
any administrative official of said Plan Commission, shall be filed with this
Board within 30 days of the decision or ruling from which such appeal is
desired to be taken.
   (B)   Filing. Any person or persons desiring to take an appeal from the
ruling or decision of the Plan Commission or any administrative official
thereof, shall file a notice of appeal in triplicate with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Filing fee. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal herein, the party
or parties making such appeal shall pay the sum of $10 to the Board of Zoning
Appeals as a filing fee, which said sum shall not be returnable.
   (D)   Notice of appeal. Any party or parties desiring to take an appeal
before the Board of Zoning Appeals shall give actual notice of such intention
to the adverse party and/or other interested parties and shall present evidence
of such notice to the Board at the time hearing is held on same.
   (E)   Bond. It is within the discretion of the Board of Zoning Appeals to
require any party or parties seeking an appeal to post a good faith bond in any
sum up to $100 if construction has been commenced pursuant to the ruling or
decision of which said appeal is being taken. If such appellant does not post a
good and satisfactory bond within ten days after being notified by the Board of
Zoning Appeals of the amount of said bond, the appeal will be dismissed.
   (F)   Restraining order. If the appellant of the decision of an action of
the Plan Commission or an official thereof should seek a restraining order to
stay any work which has commenced or may be commenced pursuant to the order of
said Plan Commission or official, a greater bond may be required upon the
discretion of this Board.
   (G)   Notice of time and place of hearing. Public notice and due notice of
the time and place of a hearing upon any appeal filed before this Board shall
be considered given upon the posting of such information in a conspicuous place
in the Town Hall at least ten days prior to such hearing date.
   (H)   Contents of petition. Any petition for appeal from a decision of the
Plan Commission, or any official thereof, shall set forth clearly the
contention of the appealing party, description of the relief they seek and
shall include the following information: Name and address of appellant; name
and address of all adverse parties; a verbatim recital of the proceedings of
the Plan Commission or the order of any official thereof from which such appeal
is taken; and, if the appeal is from the proceedings of the Plan Commission, it
shall set forth in full the minutes of the Plan Commission as taken by the
Secretary of said Plan Commission as they pertain to the ruling or decision
being appealed.
   (I)   Procedure. The Board of Zoning Appeals reserves the right to conduct
the hearings and proceedings on any appeal in any manner so long as such
hearings and proceedings shall give ample opportunity for all interested
parties to be heard and further reserves the right to promulgate any additional
rules or regulations deemed necessary for the conduct of the duties of this
Board.
(Ord. 22-1961, passed 12-5-1961)
§ 154.03 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Town Council, having reviewed the changes in the Comprehensive Plan text
and maps and, being duly advised in the premises, adopts the Comprehensive Plan
attached to the ordinance codified in this section.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 3-17-1992)
§ 154.04 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The Unified Development Ordinance certified to the Town Council by the Plan
Commission is hereby adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 5, 2018, passed 12-11-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   STREET VACATIONS
      
IV.   FUNDS
      
V.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
21 1992       - -         Annexing 40.31 acres
9 1994        - -         Annexing 53.733 acres
10 1994       - -         Annexing 67.911 acres
1 1995        - -         Annexing contiguous territory to the town
-             3-2-1954    Annexing all territory within the corporate
                          boundaries of the town
17-1961       9-5-1961    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
16            10-10-1961  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
19-1961       11-14-1961  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
20-1961       11-14-1961  Annexing one acre
24-1961       12-28-1961  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
3 1962        2-19-1962   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
4-1962        6-5-1962    Annexing 40 acres
6, 1963       12-3-1963   Annexing 1.28 acres
3 1964        6-2-1964    Annexing 1.97 acres
11, 1964      12-21-1964  Annexing 2.77 acres
10, 1966      7-19-1966   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
12, 1966      9-6-1966    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
8             4-15-1969   Annexing 2 acres
10, 1969      7-1-1969    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
2-1971        2-16-1971   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
4 1971        3-16-1971   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
6 1971        4-27-1971   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
7, 1971       4-28-1971   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
11, 1971      6-1-1971    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
12 1972       7-11-1972   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
3, 1973       12-4-1973   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
16 1973       12-4-1973   Annexing 17.39 acres
4-1974        4-2-1974    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
3, 1975       3-18-1975   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
5 1975        5-6-1975    Annexing 11.367 acres
4, 1976       9-21-1976   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
9, 1976       11-16-1976  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
14, 1976      12-21-1976  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
7, 1977       6-7-1977    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
1, 1978       3-7-1978    Annexing 0.089 of an acre
2, 1978       3-7-1978    Annexing 0.833 of an acre
3, 1978       3-7-1978    Annexing 1.4 acres
4, 1978       3-21-1978   Annexing 1.5 acres
7, 1978       6-6-1978    Annexing 4.86 acres
19, 1978      11-7-1978   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
8, 1979       5-15-1979   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
11, 1979      6-19-1979   Annexing 12.388 acres
15, 1979      8-7-1979    Annexing 1.45 acres
17, 1979      8-21-1979   Annexing 3.534 acres
22, 1979      10-30-1979  Annexing 0.733 of an acre
3, 1980       2-5-1980    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
4, 1980       2-19-1980   Annexing 17.293 acres
5, 1980       3-4-1980    Annexing 3.317 acres
9, 1980       5-13-1980   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
21, 1980      12-16-1980  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
21 1981       12-15-1981  Annexing 4.83 acres
3 1983        3-22-1983   Annexing 4.228 acres
6 1984        3-20-1984   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
10, 1984      7-3-1984    Annexing 0.806 of an acre
13 1984       9-4-1984    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
14, 1987      9-1-1987    Annexing 24.37 acres
8, 1988       4-19-1988   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
4, 1990       2-20-1990   Annexing contiguous territory
16, 1990      12-18-1990  Annexing 2.41 acres
3, 1991       1-15-1991   Annexing 12.27 acres
26 1991       12-17-1991  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
8 1993        8-17-1993   Annexing 2.16 acres
9 1995        8-7-1995    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
15 1995       12-4-1995   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
18 1995       12-18-1995  Annexing 12.27 acres
4, 1996       9-26-1996   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
9, 1996       11-18-1996  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
8, 1997       5-20-1997   Annexing 1.71 acres
9, 1997       5-20-1997   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
Res. 7, 1997  9-9-1997    Annexing Brookmore Subdivision
7, 1998       5-4-1998    Annexing property at 806 Johnson Road
8, 1998       5-5-1998    Annexing property and extending town boundaries
18, 1998      9-1-1998    Annexing part of Butler property
9, 1999       6-8-1999    Annexing 2.3 acres
8, 1999       6-15-1999   Annexing 0.506 of an acre
3, 2002       2-19-2002   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
2, 2004       2-17-2004   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
8, 2004       5-4-2004    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
9, 2004       7-20-2004   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
14, 2006      12-19-2006  Annexing contiguous territory to the town
2, 2007       12-19-2006  Annexing 90.268 acres
3, 2007       1-1-2007    Annexing 44.877 acres
5, 2007       2-20-2007   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
6, 2007       2-20-2007   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
13, 2008      12-2-2008   Annexing 28.606 acres
8, 2012       5-15-2012   Annexing 2.608 acres
9, 2012       6-5-2012    Annexing contiguous territory to the town
10, 2012      7-17-2012   Annexing 2.608 acres
6, 2014       1-6-2015    Annexing 69.454 acres
3, 2015       4-7-2015    Annexing 2.10 acres
4, 2015       4-7-2015    Annexing 1.399 acres
5, 2015       4-7-2015    Annexing 0.513 acres
12, 2015      12-1-2015   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
13, 2015      12-1-2015   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
14, 2015      12-1-2015   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
4, 2016       5-17-2016   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
3-2018        11-6-2018   Annexing 4.4 acres
4-2018        11-20-2018  Annexing 116 acres
6-2022        7-19-2021   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
1-2023        2-28-2023   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
6-2023        5-16-2023   Annexing 32.195 acres
11-2023       10-3-2023   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
4-2024        7-16-2024   Annexing 6.636 acres
5-2024        7-16-2024   Annexing 2.12 acres
6-2024        7-16-2024   Annexing contiguous territory to the town
7-2024        7-16-2024   Annexing 9.78 acres
8-2024        7-16-2024   Annexing 21.04 acres
                         
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
5,    - -    Rezone lots in Moore’s Second Addition
1966
1,    - -    Rezone parts of Sec. 35, TWP 14 N from LB to GB
1973
4,    - -    Rezone Lot 1, Block 65, Moore’s Fourth Addition from R-A to GB
1973
13,   - -    Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from GB to I
1983
7-    - -    Rezone part of Secs. 1 and 2 in TWP 13 N to I-2
1991
10-   - -    Rezone part of Sec. 32, TWP 14 N from A-1 to R-1
1992
14-   - -    Rezone part of Sec. 33, TWP 14 N to PUD-R
1993
18,   - -    Rezone part of Sec. 12, TWP 13 N from AG to I-1
1993
6     - -    Rezone land upon application of North Indiana Street, Inc. from A-1 to R-1(a)
1995
1,    - -    Rezone part of Sec. 13, TWP 13 N to PUD-I-1
1996
12,   - -    Rezone Lot 2 of Hopkins Bridge Street Minor Plat from B-3 to I-1
2004
3-62  1-2-   Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N to 1-A
      1961
4     12-4-  Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from 1-A to 3-C
      1962
10,   10-5-  Rezone lot in Moore’s Third Addition
1965  1965
12    11-2-  Rezone Lot 36, Butler’s Addition
1965  1965
1,    1-4-   Rezone Lots 26 and 27 from R-1(a) to R-1(c)
1966  1966
3,    4-19-  Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from 1a to 2b
1966  1966
6     6-7-   Rezone 239 E Main Street from Zone 1 to Zone 2A
1966  1966
7,    7-19-  Rezone Lot 37, Hadley’s Second Addition from 1a to 2a
1966  1966
2,    4-4-   Rezone property at 761 N Indiana Street from 1-A to 2-A
1967  1967
7     10-3-  Rezone Lots 5 and 6 in Moore’s Second Addition from R-1(a) to R-1(b)
      1967
7     3-5-   Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N from 1-A to 1-C
1968  1968
20,   12-17- Rezone Lot 7, Block 14, Moore’s Second Addition to 2E
1968  1968
1,    1-21-  Rezone part of Lot 1, Block 38, Samuel Moore’s Third Addition to 1-C
1969  1969
3,    3-18-  Rezone parts of Lot 14 and Lot 15, Block 4, original town plat
1969  1969
7,    4-15-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N to 1-C
1969  1969
18,   11-16- Rezone 51 E High Street to 2a
1969  1969
17,   12-11- Rezone part of Lot 1, Block 49, Moore’s Fourth Addition to 2b
1969  1969
1,    2-17-  Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N
1970  1970
10-   8-18-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N from 1-A to 1-C
1970  1970
1,    2-16-  Rezone Lot 3, Block 20, Moore’s Second Addition and Lot 8, Block 6, Moore’s
1971  1971   First Addition to I-3-C
10,   6-1-   Rezone Lot 13, original town plat from 1-A to 2
1971  1971
15,   8-17-  Rezone Lot 10, Block 6, Moore’s First Addition and Lot 11, Block 6, Moore’s
1971  1971   First Addition to 3-C
11,   10-16- Rezone Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 14, Moore’s Second Addition from R-A to GB
1973  1973
2,    2-19-  Rezone part of Sec. 31, TWP 12 N from R-A to LB
1974  1974
3,    3-19-  Rezone Lots 26 and 27, Trogden Addition and Lots 8 and 10, Reagan Addition from
1974  1974   R-A to R-B
5,    4-16-  Rezone part of Sec. 31, TWP 14 N
1974  1974
8,    11-16- Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N from R-A to LB
1976  1976
15,   12-21- Rezone Lot 1, Block 64, Samuel Moore’s Fourth Addition from R-A to LB
1976  1976
13,   8-2-   Rezone Lot 7, Block 27, Samuel Moore’s Third Addition from R-A to LB
1977  1977
16,   12-13- Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from R-A to R-B
1977  1977
5,    4-4-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from A to LB
1978  1978
9,    4-4-   Rezone part of Lot 2, Block 66, Samuel Moore’s Fourth Addition from A to LB
1978  1978
10,   6-27-  (A) Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N from A to LB
1978  1978
           (B) Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from A to GB
13,   8-1-   (A) Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from A to LB
1978  1978
           (B) Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from R-A to R-B
16,   9-19-  Rezone parts of Lot 14 Lot 15 in Block 2 in the original plat of the town from
1978  1978   A to GB
4,    4-17-  Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N to LB
1979  1979
6,    5-1-   Rezone property at 310 South Street to LB
1979  1979
13,   7-3-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from R-A to LB
1979  1979
19,   10-2-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N from R-A to LB
1979  1979
23,   12-4-  Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from A to LB
1979  1979
1,    1-3-   Rezone property owned by the Mooresville Consolidated School Corp. from A to LB
1980  1980
8,    5-13-  Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from R-A to LB
1980  1980
13,   9-2-   Rezone part of Sec. 35, TWP 14 N from R-A to GB
1980  1980
14,   9-2-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from R(a) to R(b)
1980  1980
15,   9-2-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from R-B to LB
1980  1980
16,   11-4-  Rezone parts of Lots 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in Farmer’s Addition from R-A to GB
1980  1980
17,   11-4-  (A) Rezone Lot 13, Scott’s Addition from R-A to GB
1980  1980
           (B) Rezone Lot 11, Scott’s Addition from LB to GB
           (C) Rezone Lot 12, Scott’s Addition from R-A to GB
18,   11-4-  Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from R-A to LB
1980  1980
-     6-23-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N
      1981
17,   10-20- Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from R-A to R-B
1981  1981
6-    6-13-  Rezone part of Sec. 1, TWP 13 N from R-A to AR
1983  1983
10,   8-2-   Rezone parts of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from GB to I
1983  1983
12,   11-1-  Rezone 20 W Morgan Street, Lots 10 and 11, Charles L. Hallam’s Addition from R-
1983  1983   A to R-B
2-    2-7-   Rezone parts of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N
1984  1984
8,    5-1-   Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from AR to R-A
1984  1984
5     6-18-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP N to GB
1985  1985
7,    6-18-  Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from AR to GB
1985  1985
9,    8-6-   Rezone part of Lot 2, Block 64, Samuel Moore’s Fourth Addition from R-A to LB
1985  1985
10    9-3-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from LB to B
1985  1985
5-    6-17-  Rezone part of Lot 2, Block 56, Moore’s Fourth Addition from R-A to LB
1986  1986
1     1-6-   Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from R-A to R-B
1987  1987
2     1-6-   Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from LB to GB
1987  1987
6-    5-5-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from LB to GB
1987  1987
7-    5-5-   Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from R-A to R-B
1987  1987
8-    6-2-   Rezone parts of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from LB to GB
1987  1987
9-    6-16-  Rezone parts of Lot 6 and Lot 5, Block 3, original town plat from R-A to GB
1987  1987
12,   8-4-   Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from R-A to R-B
1987  1987
13,   8-4-   Rezone part of Lot 2, Block 68, Samuel Moore’s Fourth Addition from R-A to R-B
1987  1987
15,   10-6-  Rezone Lot 16 and part of Lot 15, Block 13, Moore’s Second Addition from R-A to
1987  1987   GB
16-   12-1-  Rezone Lots 15 and 16, Butler Addition from R-A to GB
1987  1987
1-    1-17-  Rezone Lot 10, Glendale Subdivision from R-A to GB
1988  1988
2,    2-2-   Rezone Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15, Blocks 29 and 30, DeWitt’s
1988  1988   Subdivision from R-A to GB
14    9-6-   Rezone part of Sec. 1, TWP 13 N from LB to GB
1988  1988
18,   12-6-  Rezone part of Lot 2, Block 37, Samuel Moore’s Third Addition from R-A to PB
1988  1988
1-    1-3-   Rezone part of Lots 1 and 2, Block 10 from R to LB
1989  1989
9,    6-6-   Rezone property upon application from Don and Karen Hancock from AR to GB
1989  1989
11,   7-3-   Rezone part of Sec. 29, TWP 14 N
1989  1989
15,   10-3-  Rezone part of Lot 7, Block 13, Samuel Moore’s Second Addition from R-A to LB
1989  1989
7,    - -    Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from LB to I
1990  1990
3,    2-6-   Rezone three tracts located in part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from Business to
1990  1990   Residential
6,    5- -   Rezone real estate filed by Capterton Development Group, Inc. from AR to AG
1990  1990
9,    7-3-   Rezone part of Sec. 31, TWP 14, N from AG to GB
1990  1990
10-   7-17-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 from R to I
1990  1990
11-   7-17-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 from R to GB
1990  1990
14-   9-4-   Rezone real estate filed by Kendrick Memorial Hospital from AR to GB
1990  1990
1     1-2-   Rezone parts of Sec. 1, TWP 13 N from A-1 to R-1
1991  1991
6     3-5-   Rezone parts of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N to I-1
      1991
8-    4-16-  Rezone part of Sec. 2 and part of Sec. 1, TWP 13 N to I-2
1991  1991
9-    5-7-   Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from R-3 to R-2
1991  1991
11,   5-7-   Rezone Lot 36 in Spring Mill PUD from PUD-R-3 to PUD-R-1
1991  1991
12-   7-2-   Rezone part of Sec. 1, TWP 13 N to I-2
1991  1991
15-   8-6-   Rezone parts of Sec. 6, TWP 13 N from AG to R-1
1991  1991
14-   8-20-  Rezone part of Sec. 32, TWP 14 N to R-1
1991  1991
20-   11-5-  Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N to B-3
1991  1991
7-    11-15- Rezone parts of Sec. 6, TWP 13 N from R-1(d) to R-1(c)
1992  1991
11,   6-2-   Rezone Lots 5 and 5 in Block 27 from R-1 to B-3
1992  1992
5-    6-15-  Rezone part of Sec. 29, TWP 14 N from AG to R-1
1992  1992
20-   9-1-   Rezone parts of Sec. 6, TWP 13 N from AG to R-3
1992  1992
24,   11-3-  Rezone part of Sec. 6, TWP 13 N to PUD-R
1992  1992
6,    7-6-   Rezone plot in of Lot 1 in Block 10 from R-1 to B-1
1993  1993
10-   9-7-   Extending R-2 zone to include parts of Lots 1 and 2 in Block Number 42 and
1993  1993   updating zoning map
15-   11-2-  Rezone tract of land filed by Virginia S. Butler to B-3
1993  1993
3-    3-15-  Rezone part of Sec. 1, TWP 13 N from AG to PUD-R
1994  1994
4-    3-15-  Rezone parts of Sec. 33, TWP 14 N to PUD-R
1994  1994
5     4-5-   Rezone part of Sec. 15, TWP 14 N from A-1 to B-2
1994  1994
6-    5-16-  Rezone part of Sec. 31, TWP 14 N from AG to PUD-R
1994  1994
7     6-21-  Rezone Lot 7 in Block 16 in Samuel Moore’s Second Addition from R-1 to R-2
1994  1994
12-   8-2-   Rezone Lot 13 and part of Lots 11 and 12 in Glendale Addition from R-1 to I-1
1994  1994
13-   9-6-   Rezone parts of Sec. 31, TWP N from AG to B-3
1994  1994
14-   9-6-   Rezone part of Sec. 31, TWP 14 N from AG to B-3
1994  1994
15,   9-20-  Rezone parts of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from A-1 to R-1
1994  1994
16,   9-20-  Rezone parts of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N to PUD-R
1994  1994
19-   11-15- Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from AG to R-1
1994  1994
20    12-6-  Rezone part of Sec. 12, TWP 13 N from B-1 to R-3
      1994
3-    5-15-  Rezone part of Sec. 33, TWP 14 N from AG to R-1(a)
1995  1995
3-    6-19-  Rezone part of Sec. 12, TWP 13 N from AG to PUD
1995  1995
4-    6-19-  Rezone parts of Sec. 13, TWP 13 N from AG to PUD-I
1995  1995
8     7-24-  Amends Ord. 12-1994 description of property
1995  1995
12,   9-5-   Rezone land upon the application of Kendrick Memorial Hospital from B-2 to B-3
1995  1995
1995- 9-18-  Rezone part of Sec. 8, TWP 13 N to PUD-R
13    1995
16    11-20- Rezone land within the buffer zone surrounding the town to B-2
1995  1995
-     2-4-   Rezone part of Sec. 3, TWP 13 N from R-1 to R-1(a)
      1997
6-    5-6-   Rezone parts of Sec. 26 and Sec. 35, TWP 14 N from R-1 to PUD-R
1997  1997
9-    6-3-   Rezone part of Sec. 17 and part of Sec. 18, TWP 13 N from AG to R-1(a)
1997  1997
11    9-9-   Rezone part of Sec. 29, TWP 14 N from AG to PUD-R
      1997
12    9-9-   Rezone part of Sec. 28, TWP 14 N from AG to PUD-R
      1997
14,   9-16-  Rezone property upon application from Roy Terrel from B-2 to B-3
1997  1997
15,   10-7-  Rezone Lot 4, Southbridge Crossing Minor Plat from B-3 to PUD-C
1997  1997
3-    3-17-  Rezone Lots 1 and 3 in Southbridge Crossing Minor Plat from B-3 to PUD-C
1998  1998
4-    3-17-  Rezone part of Lot 9 in Block 9 of Moore’s First Addition from R-1 to R-2
1998  1998
5-    4-21-  Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from AG to R-1(a)
1998  1998
6-    5-4-   Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N from AG to B-1
1998  1998
16-   7-7-   Rezone part of Sec. 32 and part of Sec. 33, TWP 14 N from AG to R-1(c)
1998  1998
17-   8-4-   Rezone real property on application of William Weliever & Son from AG to I-1
1998  1998
21-   11-4-  Rezone property owned by Hopkins, Capterton, Stafford Development Inc. to PUD-R
1998  1998
22-   11-4-  Rezone Lot 2 of O’Neal Minor Plat from R-1 to B-1
1998  1998
23-   11-4-  Rezone parts of Sec. 14, TWP 13 N to I-2
1998  1998
24-   11-4-  Rezone part of Sec. 13, TWP 13 N from B-3 to PUD-I
1998  1998
25-   11-4-  Rezone part of Lot 1, Block 27 to B-1
1998  1998
1-    1-19-  Rezone part of Sec. 12, TWP 13 N from B-3 to PUD-1
1999  1999
3-    3-16-  Rezone land upon the application of Arvin Hopkins from AG to PUD-R
1999  1999
5-    4-6-   Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from AG to I-1
1999  1999
10-   8-3-   Rezone parts of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N to PUD-E
1999  1999
11,   8-17-  Rezone Lot 2, Sugarwood Minor Plat to R-3
1999  1999
12    9-7-   Rezone Lots 22, 23 and 24 of Reagan’s Addition to R-2
      1999
14    10-5-  Rezone land as filed by Tim Dunbar to R-2
      1999
7,    5-2-   Rezone land upon application of Weliever Brothers Realty from A to I-1
2000  2000
8     6-6-   Rezone real estate located at Bridge Street and Highway 67 to PUC-C
      2000
9     6-6-   Rezone Lot 46 of Reagen’s Addition to R-2
      2000
11-   6-27-  Rezone land near Lot 15 and all of Lots 16 and 17 in DeWitt’s Subdivision from
2000  2000   B-2 to I-1
12-   8-1-   Rezone part of Parks Minor Plat from B-1 to B-2
2000  2000
13-   8-29-  Rezone parts of Sec. 9, TWP 13 N from AG to B-2
2000  2000
16,   10-3-  Rezone land SE of Lot 2 in Block 59 from A-1 to B-3
2000  2000
17-   10-3-  Rezone Lot 3 in Walter A Thompson Subdivision from R-1 to B-1
2000  2000
1,    1-16-  Rezone Lot 4 in Reagan Addition from R-1 to R-2
2001  2001
3-    3-6-   Rezone Lot 5 in Walter A. Thompson Subdivision from B-2 to R-1
2001  2001
4-    4-17-  Rezone parts of Sec. 9, TWP 13 N from AG to B-2
2001  2001
5,    7-24-  Rezone Lot 5 in Spring Mill Court Subdivision Sec. 2 from B-2 to B-3
2001  2001
8-    10-2-  Rezone part of Sec. 32, TWP 14 N from AG to PUG-R
2001  2001
1,    1-8-   Rezone Lot 1, Block 58 in Samuel Moore’s Fourth Addition from R-1 to R-2
2000  2002
2     2-5-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from B-2 to B-3
2002  2002
8-    12-3-  Rezone part of Sec. 13, TWP 13 N from B-3 to I-1
2002  2002
1-    3-18-  Rezone property on application from Dodds Masonry Construction Co., Inc. from
2003  2003   AG to PUD-R
4,    7-15-  Rezone part of Sec. 33, TWP 14 N from A-1 to R-2
2003  2003
6,    7-15-  Rezone Lot 1, Wright PUD from R-1 to B-1
2003  2003
9-    10-7-  Rezone Lot 3 and 4, Block 27, Samuel Moore’s Third Addition from R-1 to B-3
2003  2003
1,    1-6-   Rezone parts of Sec. 9, TWP 13 N from B-1 to B-2
2004  2004
3-    3-2-   Rezone parts of Sec. 31, TWP 14 N from AG to PUD-E
2004  2004
4-    3-16-  Rezone part of Lot 1 in Block 26 in Samuel Moore’s Third Addition from R-1 to
2004  2004   B-1
5,    3-16-  Rezone part of Sec. 26, TWP 14 N from B-2 to B-3
2004  2004
6,    3-16-  Rezone real property filed by Robert Gregory from A-1 to B-3
2004  2004
16,   9-7-   Rezone real estate upon the application of Donald T. Fischer from B-2 to B-1
2004  2004
17-   10-5-  Rezone part of Sec. 29, TWP 14 from B-3 to AG
2004  2004
18-   10-5-  Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from AG to B-3
2004  2004
19-   10-5-  Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from AG to B-1
2004  2004
1-    1-4-   Rezone real property on the application of E & F Realty Co., LLP
2005  2005
11-   10-17- Rezone real property on the application of Mohney Homes from AG to PUD-R
2006  2006
12-   12-5-  Rezone real property on the application of Glenn Blackwell from AG to B-2
2006  2006
1-    1-2-   Rezone property at 13965 N State Route 67 from R to B-3
2007  2007
7,    3-20-  Rezone part of Lot 1 in Block 18 in Samuel Moore’s Second Addition from R-1 to
2007  2007   R-2
13-   8-7-   Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from B-3 to PUD-C (Parcel 1) and AG to PUD-C
2007  2007   (Parcel 2)
14,   8-21-  Rezone property at 7 W High Street From B-1 to B-2
2007  2007
15,   9-4-   Rezone Lots 85, 86 and 87 in Brookmore Subdivision from R-1 to R-3
2007  2007
6-    5-20-  Rezone part of Sec. 30, TWP 14 N from AG to B-2
2008  2008
7,    6-17-  Rezone part of Sec. 2, TWP 13 N from AG and B-2 to PUD-I
2008  2008
14-   12-16- Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N
2008  2008
4,    8-18-  Rezone part of Sec. 1, TWP 13 N from B-3 to I-1
2009  2009
1-    1-5-   Rezone property on application of Springhill Christian Ministries from R-1 to
2010  2010   PUD-R
2-    1-5-   Rezone Lot 3 of Allison Second Minor Plat from AG to I-1
2010  2010
4-    6-7-   Rezone part of Sec. 9, TWP 13 N
2011  2011
7,    8-2-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from A-1 to B-3
2011  2011
9,    9-20-  Rezone Lot 1 in Dorsett’s Grandview Acres Subdivision from R-1 to I-1
2011  2011
13,   9-18-  Rezone Lot 11, Glendale Exc and part of Lot 12 from R-1 to I-1
2012  2012
4,    6-4-   Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from R-1 to R-3
2013  2013
6-    10-15- Rezone Lot 2 in Woods Minor Plat from I-1 to R-1
2013  2013
3,    1-21-  Rezone Lot 1 in Goal I, LLC Final Plat from A-1 to B-3
2014  2014
2,    3-17-  Rezone parts of Sec. 31, TWP 14 N from A-1 to B-3
2015  2015
8,    9-15-  Rezone part of Sec. 25, TWP 14 N from R-4 to B-3
2015  2015
1,    1-19-  Rezone real property upon the application of Bernard J. Lyons from A-1 to B-3
2016  2016
3,    4-5-   Rezone part of Sec. 36, TWP 14 N from B-2 to B-3
2016  2016
7,    8-16-  Rezone property N of Lot 1 and W of Lot 2 in Block 4 of the town’s original
2016  2016   plat from B-2 to OP
1,    1-17-  Rezone real property at 135 Merriman Road From B-3 to R-1(b)
2017  2017
1,    8-22-  Rezone Lot 1 in Block 26 in Samuel Moore’s Third Addition from R-1 to B-2
2017  2017
7,    11-7-  Rezone real property at 113 St. Clair Street to R-2
2017  2017
1     5-15-  Rezone part of Sec. 29, TWP 14 N from AG to PUD-E
2018  2018
2A,   5-15-  Rezone real property at Lots 19 and 20, Flagstaff Business Park from PUD-C to
2018  2018   PUD-I
2-    9-4-   Rezone part of Sec. 8, TWP 13 N from AG to L-1
2018  2018
1,    2-28-  Rezone real property along State Route 67 from AG to I-2
2018  2019
3-    4-16-  Rezone Lot 1 in Allison First Minor Plat from AG to I-1
2019  2019
4,    7-16-  Rezone real property in the Reecer Minor Plat from PUD to AG
2019  2019
3-    3- -   Rezone Outlot 1 in The Settlement at Heartland Crossing, Sec. I from PUD-R to
2020  2020   B-1
6-    4- -   Rezone 10015 N Old State Route 67 from AG to I-l
2020  2020
9-    7-21-  Rezone Lot 1 in Allison First Minor Plat and Allison Second Minor Plat from AG
2020  2020   to I-1
12-   9-1-   Rezone part of Lot 1, Block 26 in Samuel Moore’s Third Addition from R-1 to B-2
2020  2020
2-    3-2-   Rezone Lots 18-20 Farmers Addition
2021  2021
4-    3-2-   Rezone property on behalf of the Phyllis C. Smith Irrevocable Living Trust from
2021  2021   AG to I-2
3-    3-16-  Rezone property initiated by Richhart’s Self Storage from AG to B-3
2021  2021
10    5-18-  Rezone part of Sec. 32, TWP 14 N from PUD-R to R-1(c)
2021  2021
11    5-18-  Rezone Lot 2 in Allison First Minor Plat and Lot 4 in Allison Second Minor Plat
2021  2021   from I-1 to R-1(d)
12-   6-1-   Rezone property at Old State Route 67 and Sycamore Lane from I-1 to AG
2021  2021
13-   6-15-  Rezone property at 267 E Harrison Road from R-1 to R-3
2021  2021
19-   12-7-  Rezone property on E Allison Road from B-1 to R-1
2021  2021
13-   12-20- Rezone property at 136 E. Harrison Street from I-2 to R-2
2022  2022
14-   12-20- Rezone property at 211 1/2 E. Harrison Street from R-1 to R- 2
2022  2022
15-   12-20- Rezone property at 210 Wheeler Street from R-1 to B-2
2022  2022
16-   12-20- Rezone property at 205 and 207 E. Martin Street from R- 1 to R-3
2022  2022
18-   12-19- Rezone property at 805 N. Indiana Street from R-1 to R-2
2023  2023
9-    8-6-   Rezone property subject to Petition 24-133 from R-1 to B-3
2024  2024
10-   8-20-  Rezone property at 35 W. High Street from R-1 to R-3
2024  2024
11-   8-20-  Rezone property at 41 W. High Street from R-1 to R-3
2024  2024
            
 
TABLE III: STREET VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
5-    - -    Vacating land west of Lots 1 and 11
1989
1-    1-17-  Vacating part of public right-of-way at 143 W South Street
1984  1984
17,   11-6-  Vacating part of Harrison Street
1984  1984
4,    4-28-  Vacating part of Harrison Street
1986  1986
-     3-17-  Vacating part of an alley south of Block 63 and 62 in Moore’s Fourth Addition
      1987
6-    5-2-   Vacating land west of Lots 1 and 11 in Dewitt’s Subdivision
1989  1989
Order 11-13- Vacating public way in Lots 28 and 29 in Hadley’s Second Addition
      1989
2,    12-18- Vacating alley in Scott’s Addition
1991  1990
5-    3-8-   Vacating Matthew Avenue
1991  1991
053-  8-19-  Vacating part of land between Lots 35 and 36 in Table Mesa Subdivision
1996  1996
10-   12-16- Vacating a portion of alleys now considered private property of the
2003  2003   Mooresville Public Library
7     4-6-   Vacating a portion of the right-of-way of Old State Highway 67
2004  2004
2008- 10-7-  Vacating a portion of an alley in Lot 4 of Block 14 in Samuel Moore’s Second
10    2008   Addition
5     9-3-   Vacating alley on South Street
      2019
6-    9-17-  Vacating alley in Lot 1, Block 62, in Moore’s Fourth Addition
2019  2019
11-   9-1-   Vacating alley lying north of Lot 20 in the Villages of Eastmore, Sec. 2
2020  2020
            
 
TABLE IV: FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
18-1992       - -         Establish Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund
2, 2009       - -         Establish Cumulative Capital Development Fund
8, 1965       9-7-1965    Establish Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
6, 1982       4-13-1982   Establish Town Promotional Fund
Res.          5-2-1989    Establish General Improvement Fund
21-1991       11-19-1991  Establish Park and Recreation District Operating Fund
                          and Capital Fund
12-1992       5-19-1992   Establish Building Permit Fund
Res. 3, 1997  3-4-1997    Establish Police Canine Grant Fund
4, 1999       3-16-1999   Establish Police Department Drug Fund
Res. 4, 2001  11-6-2001   Establish Methodist Church Renovation Donation Fund
1, 2002       1-8-2002    Establish Economic Development Fund
5, 2002       3-19-2002   Establish Promotional Fund
11, 2004      5-18-2004   Establish Economic Development Income Tax Fund
Res. 13, 2004 10-5-2004   Establish Storm Water and Soil Erosion Fund
Res. 5, 2007  5-1-2007    Establish Alarm Fund
12, 2007      7-17-2007   Establish Rainy Day Fund
6, 2011       7-19-2011   Establish Cumulative Capital Development Fund
7-2020        6-2-2020    Establish Town Children’s Fund
6-2021        5-18-2021   Establish ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
3-2022        4-19-2022   Establish Parks IPEP Fund
4-2022        4-19-2022   Establish Police IPEP Fund
2-2023        3-7-2023    Re-establish Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                         
 
TABLE V: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Agreement     - -         Agreement with Molex Incorporated for expansion
                          project
Res.          11-21-1976  Agreement with state’s Heartland Coordinating
                          Commission
Contract      3-5-1985    Contract with Arvin and Mary Lou Hopkins relating to
                          gravel mining operation
Agreement     11-7-1989   Agreement with Donald and Janice Mansfield concerning
                          installation of a drainage pipe
Res. 1 1995   2-20-1995   Pipeline agreement with Indiana Southern Railroad,
                          Inc.
Agreement     3-17-1998   Refund agreement with Sun Polymers International
                         
 
TABLE VI: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
Res. 11, 1997  - -         Confirm application of Sun Polymers, Inc. for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die
Res. 12, 2003  - -         Co., Inc. for designation of certain real estate in
                           the town
Res. 18, 2003  - -         Confirm application of Liffick Development Co. LLC
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 19, 2003  - -         Confirm application of RSR Co., LLC for designation
                           of certain real estate in the town
Res. 21, 2003  - -         Confirm application of TOA USA for designation at
                           approximately 900 S State Route 67
                           Confirm application of Mt. Olive Manufacturing, Inc.
Res. 13, 2011  - -         for designation of Lots 17 and 18, Flagstaff
                           Business Park
7-1981         5-19-1981   Confirm application of Nice-Pak Products, Inc. for
                           designation of real estate in Sec. 25, TWP 14 N
12-1981        7-7-1981    Confirm application of Nice-Pak Products, Inc. for
                           designation of real estate in Sec. 25, TWP 14 N
11, 1985       9-24-1985   Confirm economic development target area in Sec. 31,
                           TWP 14 N
Res. 7-1992    9-15-1992   Designating economic revitalization area in the
                           Redevelopment District
Res. 10-1992   10-20-1992  Designating development of economic revitalization
                           area in the Redevelopment District
Res. 2         11-2-1993   Designating development of economic development area
                           by Plan Commission
                           Confirm application of Ambassador Steel Corporation
Res. 2-1994    12-6-1994   for designation of certain real estate in Brown
                           Township
Res. 5, 1997   7-15-1997   Confirm economic revitalization area in Sec. 11 and
                           Sec. 12, TWP 13 N
Res. 6, 1997   8-5-1997    Confirm application of Molex, Inc. for designation
                           of real estate in Sec. 11 and Sec. 12, TWP 13 N
Res.           12-9-1997   Confirm application of Sun Polymers, Inc. for
                           designation of real estate in Sec. 13, TWP 13 N
Res. 10-1997   12-9-1997   Confirm application of Mooresville Ace Hardware,
                           Inc. for designation in Sec. 36, TWP 14 N
Res. 12-1997   12-16-1997  Confirm application of Southbridge Crossing for
                           designation of real estate in Sec. 36, TWP 14 N
                           Confirm application of Mooresville Ace Hardware,
2-1998         1-20-1998   Inc. for designation of real estate in Sec. 36, TWP
                           14 N
                           Confirm application of Jack K. Elrod Co., Inc. and
Res. 9, 1998   11-9-1998   Viking Air Tools, Inc. for designation of real
                           estate in Sec. 11 and Sec. 12
Res. 10, 1998  11-9-1998   Confirm application of William Weliever & Sons, Inc.
                           for designation of real estate in Sec. 30, TWP 14 N
                           Confirm application of Huntington National Bank of
Res. 10, 1998  12-14-1998  Indiana/Equipment Technologies, LLC for designation
                           on Lot 2 and part of Lot 1, Block A of White Lick
                           Creek Park
                           Confirm application of Weliever & Sons Chevrolet,
19, 1998       10-6-1998   Inc. for designation of certain real estate in the
                           town
Res. 1, 1999   1-4-1999    Confirm application for Equipment Technologies, LLC
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of Carter-Lee Lumber Co., Inc.
Res. 1, 2001   7-10-2001   for designation of real estate in part Sec. 13, TWP
                           13 N
                           Confirm application of Carter-Lee Lumber Co., Inc.
Res. 3, 2001   8-7-2001    for designation of real estate in part Sec. 13, TWP
                           13 N
Res. 7, 2001   12-4-2001   Confirm application of R.C. Properties I, Inc. for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 1, 2002   1-8-2002    Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die Co.
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of R.C. Properties I, LLC for
Res. 3, 2002   2-12-2002   designation of real estate in part of Sec. 30, TWP
                           14 N
                           Confirm application of Nice Pak Products for
Res. 6, 2002   6-4-2002    designation of real estate located between
                           Indianapolis Road and Old State Route 67
Res. 7, 2002   6-4-2002    Confirm application of Nice Pak Products, Inc. for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 8, 2002   7-2-2002    Confirm application of TOA USA, LLC for designation
                           of real estate at approximately 900 S State Route 67
Res. 9, 2002   7-16-2002   Confirm application of TOA USA, LLC for designation
                           of real estate at approximately 900 S State Route 67
Res. 4, 2003   3-4-2003    Confirm application of NuGenesis, Inc. for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of NuGenesis, Inc. for
Res. 5, 2003   4-15-2003   designation of real estate in part of Sec. 13 and
                           part of Sec. 14, TWP 13 N
                           Confirm application of Nice Pak Products for
Res. 8-2003    8-19-2003   designation of real estate located between
                           Indianapolis Road and Old State Route 67
                           Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die
Res. 9-2003    8-19-2003   Co., Inc. for designation of certain real estate in
                           the town
Res. 10, 2003  8-19-2003   Confirm application of Flag I, LLC for designation
                           of Lot 22A in Flagstaff Business Park
Res. 11, 2003  9-2-2003    Confirm application of Nice Pak Products for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 13, 2003  9-2-2003    Confirm application of Flag I, LLC for designation
                           at Lot 22A in Flagstaff Business Park
                           Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die
Res. 17, 2003  10-6-2003   Co., Inc. for designation of certain real estate in
                           the town
Res. 16, 2003  10-7-2003   Confirm application of TOA USA for designation at
                           approximately 900 S State Route 67
                           Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die
Res. 22, 2003  10-21-2003  Co., Inc. for designation of real estate on Old
                           State Route 67
Res. 4, 2004   4-20-2004   Confirm application of Angermeier & Wathen, LLC for
                           designation at Lot D-1 in Flagstaff Business Park
Res. 6, 2004   5-18-2004   Confirm application of Angemeier and Wathen, LLC for
                           designation at Lot D-1 in Flagstaff Business Park
                           Confirm application of Electronics Manufacturing
Res. 16, 2004  11-16-2004  Solutions, Inc. for designation of certain real
                           estate in the town
                           Confirm application of Electronics Manufacturing
Res. 17, 2004  12-7-2004   Solutions, Inc. for designation of certain real
                           estate in the town
Res. 3, 2006   2-21-2006   Confirm application of TOA USA for designation of
                           certain real estate in the town
Res. 4, 2006   3-7-2006    Confirm application of TOA USA, LLC for designation
                           of certain real estate in the town
Res. 5, 2006   3-7-2006    Confirm application of General Shale Brick, Inc. for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 6, 2006   3-21-2006   Confirm application of General Shale Brick, Inc. for
                           designation of Old State Route Highway 67 S
Res. 9, 2006   7-11-2006   Confirm application of Capital Adhesives for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die
Res. 2, 2007   3-20-2007   Company for designation of certain real estate in
                           the town
                           Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die
Res. 4, 2007   4-3-2007    Co., Inc. for designation of real estate in Sec. 12,
                           TWP 13 N
Res. 6, 2007   6-5-2007    Confirm application of RSR Co. for designation of
                           3310 Hancel Circle, Flagstaff Business Park
Res. 9, 2007   7-3-2007    Confirm application of RSR Co. for designation of
                           certain real estate in the town
Res. 16, 2007  11-20-2007  Confirm application of Signature Skylights, LLC for
                           designation of 101 Linel Drive
Res. 16A, 2007 12-18-2007  Confirm application of Signature Skylights, LLC for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 2, 2008   4-15-2008   Confirm application of Mt. Olive Manufacturing for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of Mt. Olive Manufacturing and
Res. 3, 2008   5-6-2008    Olive Oak, LLC for designation at Lots 17 and 18,
                           Flagstaff Business Park
Res. 8, 2008   8-5-2008    Confirm application of Signature Skylights, LLC for
                           designation of 101 Linel Drive
Res. 9, 2008   8-19-2008   Confirm application of Signature Skylights, LLC for
                           designation of 101 Linel Drive
Res. 10, 2008  11-4-2008   Confirm application of Alternative Machining, Inc.
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 13, 2008  11-18-2008  Confirm application of Alternative Machining, Inc.
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 14, 2008  11-18-2008  Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die Co.
                           for designation of real estate in Sec. 12, TWP 13 N
Res. 6, 2009   10-6-2009   Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die Co.
                           for designation of real estate in Sec. 12, TWP 13 N
Res. 7, 2009   10-20-2009  Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die Co.
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 4, 2010   5-4-2010    Confirm application of Mt. Olive Manufacturing Inc.
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 5, 2010   6-1-2010    Confirm designation of economic revitalization of
                           certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of Mt. Olive Manufacturing, Inc.
Res. 6, 2010   8-3-2010    for designation of Lots 17 and 18, Flagstaff
                           Business Park
Res. 7, 2010   8-3-2010    Confirm application of LN Real Estate, LLC for
                           designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 8, 2010   8-17-2010   Confirm application of Mt. Olive Manufacturing, Inc.
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
Res. 9, 2010   8-17-2010   Confirm application of LN Real Estate, LLC for
                           designation on real estate in Sec. 13, TWP 13 N
Res. 13, 2010  11-16-2010  Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die Co.
                           for designation of real estate in Sec. 12, TWP 13 N
Res. 14, 2010  12-21-2010  Confirm application of Overton & Sons Tool & Die Co.
                           for designation of real estate in Sec. 12, TWP 13 N
Res. 3, 2011   3-15-2011   Confirm application of ET Works, LLC for designation
                           of real estate in Sec. 14, TWP 13 N
Res. 4, 2011   3-15-2011   Confirm application of ET Works, LLC for designation
                           of Lot 2, Block A in White Lick Park
Res. 5, 2010   4-5-2011    Confirm application of ET Works, LLC for designation
                           of Lot 2, Block A in White Lick Park
Res. 6, 2011   4-5-2011    Confirm application of ET Works, LLC for designation
                           of real estate in part of Sec. 14, TWP 13 N
Res. 7, 2011   4-5-2011    Confirm application of ET Works, LLC for designation
                           of Lot 2, Block A in White Lick Park
Res. 8, 2011   4-19-2011   Confirm application by Cornerstone Mooresville MOB,
                           LLC for designation of Block A, Meadow Lake
Res. 9, 2011   5-3-2011    Confirm application of Cornerstone Mooresville MOB,
                           LLC for designation of Block A, Meadow Lake
Res. 11, 2011  5-3-2011    Confirm application of Angermeier and Wathen, LLC
                           for designation of certain real estate in the town
                           Confirm application of ET Works, LLC for designation
Res. 10, 2011  6-7-2011    of Lots 2, Block A in White Lick Park and part of
                           Lot 1, Block A
Res. 12, 2011  6-7-2011    Confirm application of Angermeier & Wathen, LLC at
                           1260 S Old State Route 67
                           Confirm application of Mt. Olive Manufacturing, Inc.
Res. 14, 2011  8-16-2011   for designation of Lots 17 and 18, Flagstaff
                           Business Park
Res. 1, 2012   2-7-2012    Declaration of development of economic development
                           area
Res. 2, 2012   6-27-2012   Confirm declaration of economic development area by
                           amending Redevelopment Plan
Res. 6, 2012   11-6-2012   Confirm application of ET Works, LLC for designation
                           of certain real estate in the town
Res. 1, 2013   1-15-2013   Confirm application of TOA USA for designation at
                           approximately 900 S State Route 67
Res. 2, 2013   2-5-2013    Confirm application of TOA USA for designation at
                           approximately 900 S State Route 67
Res. 33-2021   12-21-2021  Preliminary designation of an economic
                           revitalization area
Res. 3-2022    1-4-2022    Preliminary designation of an economic
                           revitalization area
                           Personal property tax abatement deductions for the
Res. 2-2022    1-18-2022   economic revitalization area project established in
                           Res. 33-2021
                           Personal property tax abatement deductions for the
Res. 4-2022    1-18-2022   economic revitalization area project established in
                           Res. 3-2022
Res. 7-2022    2-1-2022    Preliminary designation of an economic
                           revitalization area
                           Personal property tax abatement deductions for the
Res. 8-2022    2-15-2022   economic revitalization area project established in
                           Res. 7-2022
                           Amendment to the declaratory resolution and the
Res. 2022-4    9-29-2022   development plan for the consolidated economic
                           development area
Res. 17-2022   10-18-2022  Preliminary designation of an economic
                           revitalization area
Res. 22-2022   10-25-2022  Amendment to Res. 2022-4 and the development plan
                           for the consolidated economic development area
                           Personal property tax abatement deductions for the
Res. 19-2022   11-1-2022   economic revitalization area project established in
                           Res. 17-2022
                           Personal property tax abatement deductions for the
Res. 20-2022   11-1-2022   economic revitalization area project established in
                           Res. 17-2022
Res. 23-2022   11-1-2022   Amendment to Res. 2022-4 and the development plan
                           for the consolidated economic development area
Res. 3-2023    2-21-2023   Preliminary designation of an economic
                           revitalization area
                           Personal property tax abatement deductions for the
Res. 4-2023    3-7-2023    economic revitalization area project established in
                           Res. 3-2023
                           Personal property tax abatement deductions for the
Res. 5-2023    3-7-2023    economic revitalization area project established in
                           Res. 3-2023
                          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
4-21.5-3-7                    92.35,
                              150.27
5-1-4-1 et seq.               33.05
5-1-14-4                      35.01
5-2-8-2                       35.16,
                              35.17
5-3-1                         154.01
5-4-1                         33.03
5-11-1-27                     36.03
5-11-1-27(g)                  36.05
5-11-1-27(j)                  36.04
5-11-1-27(l)                  36.04
5-13-9-5.3                    35.03
5-14-3-2(k)                   35.20
5-14-3-8(g)                   35.20
5-22                          33.08
6-1.1-12.1                    154.01
6-1.1-12.1-1                  154.01
6-1.1-12.1-1(l)               154.01
6-1.1-12.1-2(e)               154.01
6-1.1-12.1-2(g)               154.01
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c)             154.01
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d)             154.01
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(e)             154.01
6-1.1-12.1-3                  154.01
6-1.1-12.1-4.5                154.01
6-1.1-12.1-5                  154.01
6-1.1-12.1-5.6                154.01
6-1.1-12.5-5                  154.01
6-2.5 et seq.                 35.01
6-9-27-1 through 6-9-27-10    35.01
7.1-1-3-5                     70.02
7.1-1-3-13                    70.02
7.1-5-1-3                     94.13
8-1.5-2                       51.01
9-13-2-105(a)                 70.02
9-17-2-12                     35.17
9-18.5-34                     91.072
9-22-1-1 et seq.              91.066
9-22-1-11                     91.068,
                              91.069
9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-14   91.068
9-22-1-27 et seq.             91.070
9-22-1-30                     91.071
9-22-5 et seq.                91.070,
                              91.073
9-26-9-3                      35.16
9-30-11-1 through 8           71.02
14-8-2-5.7                    131.02
14-8-2-185                    131.02
14-8-2-233.5                  131.02
14-28-1                       153.44
14-28-1-26                    153.44
15-16-7-2                     91.017
15-16-8-1                     91.017
22-9-1-4 et seq.              96.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              96.01
22-9.5-2-2                    96.02
22-9.5-2-3                    96.02
22-9.5-2-4                    96.02
22-9.5-2-8                    96.02
22-9.5-2-9                    96.02
22-9.5-2-11                   96.02
22-9.5-2-13                   96.02
22-9.5-3                      96.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.              96.09
22-9.5-4-8                    96.10
22-9.5-5                      96.02
22-9.5-5-1                    96.03
22-9.5-6                      96.02,
                              96.10
22-13-2-7                     150.27
22-13-2-7(b)                  150.17
22-15-3-1                     150.20
22-15-4                       150.18
33-37-2-2                     10.99
34-28-5                       93.01
34-28-5-1                     130.99
35-31.5-2-302                 91.018
35-45-4                       91.018
35-48-1-9                     94.13
36-1-3                        152.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)            52.999,
                              93.99
36-1-5-4                      34.05
36-1-20.2                     34.05
36-1-21                       34.05
36-3-4-14                     70.02
36-4-6-11                     34.05
36-5-2-9.4                    34.05
36-7-2-9                      92.31
36-7-4                        153.01
36-7-4-1106                   92.50
36-7-9 et seq.                150.40,
                              150.41
36-7-9-2                      150.42
36-7-9-4                      150.45
36-7-9-4(a)(1) through (a)(6) 150.45
36-7-9-14                     150.47
36-7-14-39                    154.01
36-7-14.5-1 et seq.           33.03
36-8-3-20                     33.06
36-8-9 et seq.                33.06
36-8-9-3.1                    33.06
36-8-17-9                     92.34,
                              92.35
36-9-23-1 et seq.             56.02
                              56.04,
36-9-27                       56.09,
                              152.08
36-10-3                       94.01
36-10-3-1 et seq.             33.02
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         - -         70.06
7-1996    - -         31.22
11, 1997  - -         TSO Table VI
12, 2003  - -         TSO Table VI
18, 2003  - -         TSO Table VI
19, 2003  - -         TSO Table VI
21, 2003  - -         TSO Table VI
13, 2011  - -         TSO Table VI
-         3-2-1954    33.01
-         3-2-1965    34.02
-         6-20-1967   150.01
1-1975    11-17-1975  33.01
-         11-21-1976  TSO Table V
-         9-3-1985    31.05
2-1986    5-20-1986   95.03
-         5-2-1989    TSO Table IV
8-1991    11-3-1991   33.05
1-1992    6-2-1992    31.21
6-1992    9-15-1992   154.01
7-1992    9-15-1992   TSO Table VI
10-1992   10-20-1992  TSO Table VI
2         11-2-1993   TSO Table VI
2-1994    12-6-1994   TSO Table VI
1 1995    2-20-1995   TSO Table V
6         11-18-1996  31.24
3, 1997   3-4-1997    TSO Table IV
5, 1997   7-15-1997   TSO Table VI
6, 1997   8-5-1997    TSO Table VI
7, 1997   9-9-1997    TSO Table I
-         12-9-1997   TSO Table VI
10-1997   12-9-1997   TSO Table VI
12-1997   12-16-1997  TSO Table VI
1, 1998   1-19-1998   11.02
9, 1998   11-9-1998   TSO Table VI
10, 1998  11-9-1998   TSO Table VI
10, 1998  12-14-1998  TSO Table VI
1, 1999   1-4-1999    TSO Table VI
1, 2001   7-10-2001   TSO Table VI
3, 2001   8-7-2001    TSO Table VI
4, 2001   11-6-2001   TSO Table IV
7, 2001   12-4-2001   TSO Table VI
-         1-8-2002    31.23
1, 2002   1-8-2002    TSO Table VI
3, 2002   2-12-2002   TSO Table VI
6, 2002   6-4-2002    TSO Table VI
7, 2002   6-4-2002    TSO Table VI
8, 2002   7-2-2002    TSO Table VI
9, 2002   7-16-2002   TSO Table VI
2, 2003   2-4-2003    95.01
4, 2003   3-4-2003    TSO Table VI
5, 2003   4-15-2003   TSO Table VI
8-2003    8-19-2003   TSO Table VI
9-2003    8-19-2003   TSO Table VI
10, 2003  8-19-2003   TSO Table VI
11, 2003  9-2-2003    TSO Table VI
13, 2003  9-2-2003    TSO Table VI
17, 2003  10-6-2003   TSO Table VI
16, 2003  10-7-2003   TSO Table VI
22, 2003  10-21-2003  TSO Table VI
4, 2004   4-20-2004   TSO Table VI
6, 2004   5-18-2004   TSO Table VI
9         7-20-2004   35.30–
                      35.40
13, 2004  10-5-2004   TSO Table IV
16, 2004  11-16-2004  TSO Table VI
17, 2004  12-7-2004   TSO Table VI
19, 2004  12-7-2004   34.03
3, 2006   2-21-2006   TSO Table VI
4, 2006   3-7-2006    TSO Table VI
5, 2006   3-7-2006    TSO Table VI
6, 2006   3-21-2006   TSO Table VI
9, 2006   7-11-2006   TSO Table VI
3A        2-6-2007    34.01
2, 2007   3-20-2007   TSO Table VI
4, 2007   4-3-2007    TSO Table VI
5, 2007   5-1-2007    TSO Table IV
6, 2007   6-5-2007    TSO Table VI
7, 2007   6-19-2007   35.16
9, 2007   7-3-2007    TSO Table VI
16, 2007  11-20-2007  TSO Table VI
16A, 2007 12-18-2007  TSO Table VI
17, 2007  12-18-2007  52.147
2, 2008   4-15-2008   TSO Table VI
3, 2008   5-6-2008    TSO Table VI
8, 2008   8-5-2008    TSO Table VI
9, 2008   8-19-2008   TSO Table VI
10, 2008  11-4-2008   TSO Table VI
13, 2008  11-18-2008  TSO Table VI
14, 2008  11-18-2008  TSO Table VI
2-2009    6-16-2009   36.46
6, 2009   10-6-2009   TSO Table VI
7, 2009   10-20-2009  TSO Table VI
2         4-6-2010    34.04
4, 2010   5-4-2010    TSO Table VI
5, 2010   6-1-2010    TSO Table VI
6, 2010   8-3-2010    TSO Table VI
7, 2010   8-3-2010    TSO Table VI
8, 2010   8-17-2010   TSO Table VI
9, 2010   8-17-2010   TSO Table VI
13, 2010  11-16-2010  TSO Table VI
14, 2010  12-21-2010  TSO Table VI
2, 2011   2-15-2011   35.03
3, 2011   3-15-2011   TSO Table VI
4, 2011   3-15-2011   TSO Table VI
5, 2010   4-5-2011    TSO Table VI
6, 2011   4-5-2011    TSO Table VI
7, 2011   4-5-2011    TSO Table VI
8, 2011   4-19-2011   TSO Table VI
9, 2011   5-3-2011    TSO Table VI
11, 2011  5-3-2011    TSO Table VI
10, 2011  6-7-2011    TSO Table VI
12, 2011  6-7-2011    TSO Table VI
14, 2011  8-16-2011   TSO Table VI
17, 2011  11-15-2011  31.06
18, 2011  11-15-2011  151.01
19, 2011  11-15-2011  151.01
1, 2012   2-7-2012    TSO Table VI
3, 2012   6-19-2012   34.05
2, 2012   6-27-2012   TSO Table VI
6, 2012   11-6-2012   TSO Table VI
1, 2013   1-15-2013   TSO Table VI
2, 2013   2-5-2013    TSO Table VI
3, 2013   6-18-2013   35.19
33-2021   12-21-2021  TSO Table VI
3-2022    1-4-2022    TSO Table VI
2-2022    1-18-2022   TSO Table VI
4-2022    1-18-2022   TSO Table VI
7-2022    2-1-2022    TSO Table VI
8-2022    2-15-2022   TSO Table VI
9-2022    2-15-2022   151.01
12-2022   5-3-2022    34.21
2022-4    9-29-2022   TSO Table VI
17-2022   10-18-2022  TSO Table VI
22-2022   10-25-2022  TSO Table VI
19-2022   11-1-2022   TSO Table VI
20-2022   11-1-2022   TSO Table VI
23-2022   11-1-2022   TSO Table VI
3-2023    2-21-2023   TSO Table VI
4-2023    3-7-2023    TSO Table VI
5-2023    3-7-2023    TSO Table VI
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1946     5- -1946    Ch. 73, Schd. I
3, 1948  - -1948     Ch. 73, Schd. I
2 1948   9-7-1948    71.03,
                     71.99
5, 1951  10-3-1951   70.03
-        3-2-1954    TSO Table I
5-60     8- -1960    31.01
3-62     1-2-1961    TSO Table II
61-2     1-3-1961    34.20
3-1961   2-7-1961    110.01,
                     110.99
4-1961   2-7-1961    Ch. 73, Schd. I
17-1961  9-5-1961    TSO Table I
16       10-10-1961  TSO Table I
19-1961  11-14-1961  TSO Table I
20-1961  11-14-1961  TSO Table I
22-1961  12-5-1961   154.02
24-1961  12-28-1961  TSO Table I
3 1962   2-19-1962   TSO Table I
4-1962   6-5-1962    TSO Table I
6-1962   6-5-1962    Ch. 73, Schd. I
4        12-4-1962   TSO Table II
5-1963   9-3-1963    31.02
6, 1963  12-3-1963   TSO Table I
2, 1964  3-3-1964    Ch. 73, Schd. I
3 1964   6-2-1964    TSO Table I
11, 1964 12-21-1964  TSO Table I
1, 1965  3-2-1965    Ch. 73, Schd. I
5, 1965  5-4-1965    71.01,
                     71.99
7, 1965  7-6-1965    Ch. 73, Schd. I
8, 1965  9-7-1965    TSO Table IV
10, 1965 10-5-1965   TSO Table II
12 1965  11-2-1965   TSO Table II
1, 1966  1-4-1966    TSO Table II
3, 1966  4-19-1966   TSO Table II
                     110.35–
4        5-2-1966    110.42,
                     110.99
6 1966   6-7-1966    TSO Table II
7, 1966  7-19-1966   TSO Table II
8, 1966  7-19-1966   Ch. 72, Schd. II,
                     Ch. 72, Schd. III
10, 1966 7-19-1966   TSO Table I
12, 1966 9-6-1966    TSO Table I
2, 1967  4-4-1967    TSO Table II
3, 1967  5-2-1967    Ch. 73, Schd. I
7        10-3-1967   TSO Table II
1, 1968  2-6-1968    70.05,
                     70.99
4-1968   2-20-1968   110.02
5, 1968  2-20-1968   32.01
7 1968   3-5-1968    TSO Table II
13, 1968 6- -1968    33.07
15, 1968 7-16-1968   91.002,
                     91.999
17, 1968 11-19-1968  Ch. 72, Schd. V
18, 1968 12-17-1968  Ch. 72, Schd. V
19, 1968 12-17-1968  Ch. 72, Schd. V
20, 1968 12-17-1968  TSO Table II
1, 1969  1-21-1969   TSO Table II
3, 1969  3-18-1969   TSO Table II
5-1969   4-15-1969   31.04
7, 1969  4-15-1969   TSO Table II
8        4-15-1969   TSO Table I
10, 1969 7-1-1969    TSO Table I
11 1969  7-15-1969   31.03
18, 1969 11-16-1969  TSO Table II
17, 1969 12-11-1969  TSO Table II
1, 1970  2-17-1970   TSO Table II
10-1970  8-18-1970   TSO Table II
1, 1971  2-16-1971   TSO Table II
2-1971   2-16-1971   TSO Table I
3, 1971  3-16-1971   Ch. 72, Schd. IV
4 1971   3-16-1971   TSO Table I
6 1971   4-27-1971   TSO Table I
7, 1971  4-28-1971   TSO Table I
8, 1971  5-4-1971    Ch. 72, Schd. IV
10, 1971 6-1-1971    TSO Table II
11, 1971 6-1-1971    TSO Table I
14, 1971 8-3-1971    Ch. 72, Schd. IV
15, 1971 8-17-1971   TSO Table II
16, 1971 12-21-1971  Ch. 73, Schd. I
3, 1972  2-15-1972   Ch. 72, Schd. IV
4, 1972  3-21-1972   Ch. 72, Schd. IV
5, 1972  3-21-1972   Ch. 73, Schd. I
6, 1972  3-21-1972   Ch. 73, Schd. I
7, 1972  3-26-1972   Ch. 73, Schd. I
12 1972  7-11-1972   TSO Table I
13, 1972 9-19-1972   Ch. 72, Schd. IV
14, 1972 11-21-1972  33.04
5 1973   6-19-1973   Ch. 73, Schd. I
11, 1973 10-16-1973  TSO Table II
12, 1973 10-16-1973  Ch. 73, Schd. I
13, 1973 10-16-1973  Ch. 73, Schd. I
3, 1973  12-4-1973   TSO Table I
15, 1973 12-4-1973   71.99
16 1973  12-4-1973   TSO Table I
1, 1974  1-22-1974   70.07,
                     70.99
2, 1974  2-19-1974   TSO Table II
3, 1974  3-19-1974   TSO Table II
4-1974   4-2-1974    TSO Table I
5, 1974  4-16-1974   TSO Table II
                     111.01–
                     111.04,
6, 1974  5-7-1974    111.15–
                     111.20,
                     111.99
8, 1974  7-2-1974    Ch. 73, Schd. I
2, 1975  2-18-1975   Ch. 73, Schd. I
3, 1975  3-18-1975   TSO Table I
5 1975   5-6-1975    TSO Table I
3, 1976  8-17-1976   Ch. 73, Schd. I
4, 1976  9-21-1976   TSO Table I
5, 1976  9-21-1976   52.148
7, 1976  10-19-1976  Ch. 72, Schd. IV
8, 1976  11-16-1976  TSO Table II
9, 1976  11-16-1976  TSO Table I
10, 1976 11-16-1976  Ch. 73, Schd. I
13, 1976 12-21-1976  30.03
14, 1976 12-21-1976  TSO Table I
15, 1976 12-21-1976  TSO Table II
1, 1977  1-4-1977    Ch. 72, Schd. II
7, 1977  6-7-1977    TSO Table I
10, 1977 6-21-1977   Ch. 73, Schd. I
13, 1977 8-2-1977    TSO Table II
16, 1977 12-13-1977  TSO Table II
1, 1978  3-7-1978    TSO Table I
2, 1978  3-7-1978    TSO Table I
3, 1978  3-7-1978    TSO Table I
4, 1978  3-21-1978   TSO Table I
5, 1978  4-4-1978    TSO Table II
9, 1978  4-4-1978    TSO Table II
7, 1978  6-6-1978    TSO Table I
10, 1978 6-27-1978   TSO Table II
13, 1978 8-1-1978    TSO Table II
16, 1978 9-19-1978   TSO Table II
18, 1978 10-17-1978  30.01
19, 1978 11-7-1978   TSO Table I
21, 1978 11-21-1978  30.01
22, 1978 12-5-1978   Ch. 73, Schd. I
1, 1979  1-2-1979    Ch. 72, Schd. IV
3, 1979  3-6-1979    Ch. 72, Schd. IV
4, 1979  4-17-1979   TSO Table II
5, 1979  4-17-1979   Ch. 72, Schd. II
6, 1979  5-1-1979    TSO Table II
8, 1979  5-15-1979   TSO Table I
11, 1979 6-19-1979   TSO Table I
13, 1979 7-3-1979    TSO Table II
15, 1979 8-7-1979    TSO Table I
17, 1979 8-21-1979   TSO Table I
19, 1979 10-2-1979   TSO Table II
22, 1979 10-30-1979  TSO Table I
23, 1979 12-4-1979   TSO Table II
1, 1980  1-3-1980    TSO Table II
3, 1980  2-5-1980    TSO Table I
4, 1980  2-19-1980   TSO Table I
5, 1980  3-4-1980    TSO Table I
7, 1980  4-1-1980    Ch. 73, Schd. I
8, 1980  5-13-1980   TSO Table II
9, 1980  5-13-1980   TSO Table I
13, 1980 9-2-1980    TSO Table II
14, 1980 9-2-1980    TSO Table II
15, 1980 9-2-1980    TSO Table II
16, 1980 11-4-1980   TSO Table II
17, 1980 11-4-1980   TSO Table II
18, 1980 11-4-1980   TSO Table II
21, 1980 12-16-1980  TSO Table I
                     112.01–
3, 1981  2-17-1981   112.06,
                     112.99
7-1981   5-19-1981   TSO Table VI
8, 1981  6-2-1981    Ch. 72, Schd. III
-        6-23-1981   TSO Table II
12-1981  7-7-1981    TSO Table VI
17, 1981 10-20-1981  TSO Table II
21 1981  12-15-1981  TSO Table I
4, 1982  2-16-1982   Ch. 73, Schd. I
6, 1982  4-13-1982   TSO Table IV
9, 1982  5-18-1982   Ch. 73, Schd. I
16, 1982 12-7-1982   Ch. 73, Schd. I
17, 1982 12-21-1982  Ch. 73, Schd. I
3 1983   3-22-1983   TSO Table I
4, 1983  4-19-1983   Ch. 73, Schd. I
6-1983   6-13-1983   TSO Table II
10, 1983 8-2-1983    TSO Table II
12, 1983 11-1-1983   TSO Table II
                     151.30–
15, 1983 11-15-1983  151.42,
                     151.99
1-1984   1-17-1984   TSO Table III
2-1984   2-7-1984    TSO Table II
3, 1984  3-6-1984    Ch. 73, Schd. I
4, 1984  3-6-1984    Ch. 73, Schd. I
6 1984   3-20-1984   TSO Table I
8, 1984  5-1-1984    TSO Table II
10, 1984 7-3-1984    TSO Table I
13 1984  9-4-1984    TSO Table I
17, 1984 11-6-1984   TSO Table III
3, 1985  5-21-1985   Ch. 73, Schd. I
5 1985   6-18-1985   TSO Table II
7, 1985  6-18-1985   TSO Table II
9, 1985  8-6-1985    TSO Table II
10 1985  9-3-1985    TSO Table II
11, 1985 9-24-1985   TSO Table VI
12, 1985 11-19-1985  Ch. 72, Schd. IV
4, 1986  4-28-1986   TSO Table III
5-1986   6-17-1986   TSO Table II
1 1987   1-6-1987    TSO Table II
2 1987   1-6-1987    TSO Table II
-        3-17-1987   TSO Table III
3, 1987  4-21-1987   Ch. 72, Schd. I
6-1987   5-5-1987    TSO Table II
7-1987   5-5-1987    TSO Table II
8-1987   6-2-1987    TSO Table II
9-1987   6-16-1987   TSO Table II
12, 1987 8-4-1987    TSO Table II
13, 1987 8-4-1987    TSO Table II
14, 1987 9-1-1987    TSO Table I
15, 1987 10-6-1987   TSO Table II
16-1987  12-1-1987   TSO Table II
1-1988   1-17-1988   TSO Table II
2, 1988  2-2-1988    TSO Table II
5, 1988  4-5-1988    Ch. 72, Schd. IV
8, 1988  4-19-1988   TSO Table I
                     150.15–
7-1988   5-4-1988    150.28,
                     150.99
13, 1988 8-16-1988   Ch. 72, Schd. IV
14 1988  9-6-1988    TSO Table II
18, 1988 12-6-1988   TSO Table II
                     92.30–
7, 1989  - -1989     92.33,
                     92.99
1-1989   1-3-1989    TSO Table II
6-1989   5-2-1989    TSO Table III
9, 1989  6-6-1989    TSO Table II
                     92.30–
10, 1989 7-3-1989    92.35,
                     92.99
11, 1989 7-3-1989    TSO Table II
14-1989  8-15-1989   71.04,
                     71.99
15, 1989 10-3-1989   TSO Table II
                     52.001–
                     52.005,
                     52.020–
                     52.023,
                     52.035–
                     52.048,
                     52.060–
17-1989  12-5-1989   52.067,
                     52.080–
                     52.088,
                     52.100–
                     52.102,
                     52.115–
                     52.122,
                     52.135,
                     52.999
7, 1990  - -1990     TSO Table II
19       1-2-1990    33.03
2, 1990  1-16-1990   Ch. 73, Schd. I
3, 1990  2-6-1990    TSO Table II
4, 1990  2-20-1990   TSO Table I
6, 1990  5- -1990    TSO Table II
8-1990   6-27-1990   35.01
9, 1990  7-3-1990    TSO Table II
10-1990  7-17-1990   TSO Table II
11-1990  7-17-1990   TSO Table II
14-1990  9-4-1990    TSO Table II
16, 1990 12-18-1990  TSO Table I
2, 1991  12-18-1990  TSO Table III
1 1991   1-2-1991    TSO Table II
3, 1991  1-15-1991   TSO Table I
5-1991   3-8-1991    TSO Table III
6        3-5-1991    TSO Table II
8-1991   4-16-1991   TSO Table II
9-1991   5-7-1991    TSO Table II
10-1991  5-7-1991    Ch. 72, Schd. III
11, 1991 5-7-1991    TSO Table II
12-1991  7-2-1991    TSO Table II
15-1991  8-6-1991    TSO Table II
14-1991  8-20-1991   TSO Table II
                     50.01–
17-1991  10-15-1991  50.03,
                     50.99
19-1991  11-5-1991   33.05
20-1991  11-5-1991   TSO Table II
7-1992   11-15-1991  TSO Table II
21-1991  11-19-1991  TSO Table IV
25, 1991 12-17-1991  Ch. 73, Schd. I
26 1991  12-17-1991  TSO Table I
27-1991  1-7-1992    33.03
3-1992   3-17-1992   154.03
12-1992  5-19-1992   TSO Table IV
11, 1992 6-2-1992    TSO Table II
5-1992   6-15-1992   TSO Table II
16-1992  7-7-1992    Ch. 72, Schd. IV
17-1992  7-7-1992    Ch. 73, Schd. I
19-1992  8-4-1992    Ch. 72, Schd. I
20-1992  9-1-1992    TSO Table II
23 1992  10-20-1992  70.02,
                     70.99
24, 1992 11-3-1992   TSO Table II
4 1993   5-18-1993   92.02
6, 1993  7-6-1993    TSO Table II
5 1993   8-10-1993   92.01
8 1993   8-17-1993   TSO Table I
9, 1993  8-17-1993   150.40–
                     150.47
10-1993  9-7-1993    TSO Table II
13 1993  9-30-1993   35.15
15-1993  11-2-1993   TSO Table II
1, 1994  1-4-1994    Ch. 72, Schd. IV
3-1994   3-15-1994   TSO Table II
4-1994   3-15-1994   TSO Table II
2 1994   4-5-1994    55.01–
                     55.10
5 1994   4-5-1994    TSO Table II
6-1994   5-16-1994   TSO Table II
7 1994   6-21-1994   TSO Table II
12-1994  8-2-1994    TSO Table II
13-1994  9-6-1994    TSO Table II
14-1994  9-6-1994    TSO Table II
15, 1994 9-20-1994   TSO Table II
16, 1994 9-20-1994   TSO Table II
                     110.15–
17-1994  11-1-1994   110.20,
                     110.99
19-1994  11-15-1994  TSO Table II
20       12-6-1994   TSO Table II
3-1995   5-15-1995   TSO Table II
3-1995   6-19-1995   TSO Table II
4-1995   6-19-1995   TSO Table II
5 1995   6-19-1995   Ch. 73, Schd. I
8 1995   7-24-1995   TSO Table II
9 1995   8-7-1995    TSO Table I
11, 1995 8-21-1995   Ch. 72, Schd. III
12, 1995 9-5-1995    TSO Table II
1995-13  9-18-1995   TSO Table II
16 1995  11-20-1995  TSO Table II
14 1995  12-4-1995   91.071
15 1995  12-4-1995   TSO Table I
18 1995  12-18-1995  TSO Table I
2, 1996  3-4-1996    Ch. 72, Schd. III
                     151.15–
3, 1996  4-1-1996    151.17,
                     151.99
5, 1996  5-26-1996   35.02
053-1996 8-19-1996   TSO Table III
4, 1996  9-26-1996   TSO Table I
9, 1996  11-18-1996  TSO Table I
11, 1996 12-16-1996  Ch. 73, Schd. I
3, 1997  1-1-1997    33.06
-        2-4-1997    TSO Table II
2, 1997  3-18-1997   90.01,
                     90.99
5, 1997  4-15-1997   71.02
6-1997   5-6-1997    TSO Table II
8, 1997  5-20-1997   TSO Table I
9, 1997  5-20-1997   TSO Table I
9-1997   6-3-1997    TSO Table II
11       9-9-1997    TSO Table II
12       9-9-1997    TSO Table II
14, 1997 9-16-1997   TSO Table II
15, 1997 10-7-1997   TSO Table II
1, 1998  1-6-1998    Ch. 72, Schd. I
2-1998   1-20-1998   TSO Table VI
3-1998   3-17-1998   TSO Table II
4-1998   3-17-1998   TSO Table II
5-1998   4-21-1998   TSO Table II
6-1998   5-4-1998    TSO Table II
7, 1998  5-4-1998    TSO Table I
10, 1998 5-4-1998    55.03
8, 1998  5-5-1998    TSO Table I
12, 1998 6-16-1998   33.08
16-1998  7-7-1998    TSO Table II
17-1998  8-4-1998    TSO Table II
18, 1998 9-1-1998    TSO Table I
19, 1998 10-6-1998   TSO Table VI
20, 1998 10-6-1998   Ch. 72, Schd. IV
21-1998  11-4-1998   TSO Table II
22-1998  11-4-1998   TSO Table II
23-1998  11-4-1998   TSO Table II
24-1998  11-4-1998   TSO Table II
25-1998  11-4-1998   TSO Table II
1-1999   1-19-1999   TSO Table II
3-1999   3-16-1999   TSO Table II
4, 1999  3-16-1999   TSO Table IV
5-1999   4-6-1999    TSO Table II
7, 1999  5-4-1999    95.02
9, 1999  6-8-1999    TSO Table I
8, 1999  6-15-1999   TSO Table I
10-1999  8-3-1999    TSO Table II
11, 1999 8-17-1999   TSO Table II
12       9-7-1999    TSO Table II
13, 1999 9-14-1999   Ch. 72, Schd. III
14       10-5-1999   TSO Table II
3, 2000  4-18-2000   33.06
7, 2000  5-2-2000    TSO Table II
8        6-6-2000    TSO Table II
9        6-6-2000    TSO Table II
10, 2000 6-27-2000   Ch. 73, Schd. I
11-2000  6-27-2000   TSO Table II
12-2000  8-1-2000    TSO Table II
13-2000  8-29-2000   TSO Table II
15, 2000 9-5-2000    130.02,
                     130.99
16, 2000 10-3-2000   TSO Table II
17-2000  10-3-2000   TSO Table II
18, 2000 12-5-2000   150.42
1, 2001  1-16-2001   TSO Table II
3-2001   3-6-2001    TSO Table II
4-2001   4-17-2001   TSO Table II
5, 2001  7-24-2001   TSO Table II
8-2001   10-2-2001   TSO Table II
9, 2001  11-6-2001   Ch. 73, Schd. I
1, 2000  1-8-2002    TSO Table II
1, 2002  1-8-2002    TSO Table IV
2 2002   2-5-2002    TSO Table II
3, 2002  2-19-2002   TSO Table I
5, 2002  3-19-2002   TSO Table IV
8-2002   12-3-2002   TSO Table II
1-2003   3-18-2003   TSO Table II
4, 2003  7-15-2003   TSO Table II
5, 2003  7-15-2003   71.01,
                     71.99
6, 2003  7-15-2003   TSO Table II
8, 2003  10-7-2003   Ch. 73, Schd. I
9-2003   10-7-2003   TSO Table II
10-2003  12-16-2003  TSO Table III
1, 2004  1-6-2004    TSO Table II
2, 2004  2-17-2004   TSO Table I
3-2004   3-2-2004    TSO Table II
4-2004   3-16-2004   TSO Table II
5, 2004  3-16-2004   TSO Table II
6, 2004  3-16-2004   TSO Table II
7 2004   4-6-2004    TSO Table III
8, 2004  5-4-2004    TSO Table I
11, 2004 5-18-2004   TSO Table IV
9, 2004  7-20-2004   TSO Table I
14, 2004 7-20-2004   92.04,
                     92.99
16, 2004 9-7-2004    TSO Table II
17-2004  10-5-2004   TSO Table II
18-2004  10-5-2004   TSO Table II
19-2004  10-5-2004   TSO Table II
1-2005   1-4-2005    TSO Table II
2, 2006  2-21-2006   Ch. 73, Schd. I
5, 2006  5-2-2006    Ch. 73, Schd. I
11, 2006 9-5-2006    36.45
10, 2006 10-3-2006   90.35–
                     90.38
11-2006  10-17-2006  TSO Table II
12-2006  12-5-2006   TSO Table II
14, 2006 12-19-2006  TSO Table I
2, 2007  12-19-2006  TSO Table I
3, 2007  1-1-2007    TSO Table I
1-2007   1-2-2007    TSO Table II
5, 2007  2-20-2007   TSO Table I
6, 2007  2-20-2007   TSO Table I
7, 2007  3-20-2007   TSO Table II
                     93.01–
8, 2007  4-17-2007   93.11,
                     93.99
12, 2007 7-17-2007   TSO Table IV
13-2007  8-7-2007    TSO Table II
14, 2007 8-21-2007   TSO Table II
15, 2007 9-4-2007    TSO Table II
3, 2008  3-18-2008   32.02
6-2008   5-20-2008   TSO Table II
7, 2008  6-17-2008   TSO Table II
2008-10  10-7-2008   TSO Table III
11, 2008 11-4-2008   32.03
13, 2008 12-2-2008   TSO Table I
14-2008  12-16-2008  TSO Table II
                     90.15–
1, 2009  5-5-2009    90.22,
                     90.99
4, 2009  8-18-2009   TSO Table II
                     52.999,
8, 2009  11-3-2009   54.01,
                     54.02,
                     54.99
                     53.01–
11, 2009 12-15-2009  53.04,
                     53.99
1-2010   1-5-2010    TSO Table II
2-2010   1-5-2010    TSO Table II
                     96.01–
6, 2010  4-20-2010   96.10,
                     96.99
                     52.136–
8, 2010  7-20-2010   52.146,
                     52.999
14, 2010 11-2-2010   35.17
3, 2011  6-7-2011    Ch. 73, Schd. I
4-2011   6-7-2011    TSO Table II
6, 2011  7-19-2011   TSO Table IV
7, 2011  8-2-2011    TSO Table II
9, 2011  9-20-2011   TSO Table II
11, 2011 12-6-2011   Ch. 73, Schd. I
3, 2012  1- -2012    152.01–
                     152.19
                     152.30–
2, 2012  2-21-2012   152.50,
                     152.99
8, 2012  5-15-2012   TSO Table I
9, 2012  6-5-2012    TSO Table I
10, 2012 7-17-2012   TSO Table I
12-2012  8-10-2012   51.01
13, 2012 9-18-2012   TSO Table II
1, 2013  2-5-2013    35.18
4, 2013  6-4-2013    TSO Table II
5, 2013  7-2-2013    Ch. 73, Schd. II
6-2013   10-15-2013  TSO Table II
3, 2014  1-21-2014   TSO Table II
                     153.01–
                     153.13,
                     153.25–
4, 2014  8-19-2014   153.28,
                     153.40–
                     153.47,
                     153.99
6, 2015  - -2015     Ch. 72, Schd. I
7, 2015  - -2015     Ch. 72, Schd. I,
                     Ch. 72, Schd. IV
6, 2014  1-6-2015    TSO Table I
2, 2015  3-17-2015   TSO Table II
3, 2015  4-7-2015    TSO Table I
4, 2015  4-7-2015    TSO Table I
5, 2015  4-7-2015    TSO Table I
8, 2015  9-15-2015   TSO Table II
11, 2015 11-17-2015  71.05,
                     71.99
12, 2015 12-1-2015   TSO Table I
13, 2015 12-1-2015   TSO Table I
14, 2015 12-1-2015   TSO Table I
1, 2016  1-19-2016   TSO Table II
                     131.01–
2, 2016  1-26-2016   131.04,
                     131.99
3, 2016  4-5-2016    TSO Table II
4, 2016  5-17-2016   TSO Table I
5, 2016  6-30-2016   36.01–
                     36.07
7, 2016  8-16-2016   TSO Table II
1, 2017  1-17-2017   TSO Table II
1, 2017  8-22-2017   TSO Table II
4, 2017  9-26-2017   Ch. 73, Schd. II
7, 2017  11-7-2017   TSO Table II
1 2018   5-15-2018   TSO Table II
2A, 2018 5-15-2018   TSO Table II
2-2018   9-4-2018    TSO Table II
3-2018   11-6-2018   TSO Table I
4-2018   11-20-2018  TSO Table I
5, 2018  12-11-2018  154.04
1, 2018  2-28-2019   TSO Table II
3-2019   4-16-2019   TSO Table II
4, 2019  7-16-2019   TSO Table II
5        9-3-2019    TSO Table III
6-2019   9-17-2019   TSO Table III
3-2020   3- -2020    TSO Table II
6-2020   4- -2020    TSO Table II
5-2020   4-21-2020   52.138
7-2020   6-2-2020    TSO Table IV
10       6-21-2020   52.149
9-2020   7-21-2020   TSO Table II
11-2020  9-1-2020    TSO Table III
12-2020  9-1-2020    TSO Table II
1-2021   2-2-2021    34.01
2-2021   3-2-2021    TSO Table II
4-2021   3-2-2021    TSO Table II
3-2021   3-16-2021   TSO Table II
6-2021   5-18-2021   TSO Table IV
7-2021   5-18-2021   33.06
                     94.01–
8-2021   5-18-2021   94.24,
                     94.99
10 2021  5-18-2021   TSO Table II
11 2021  5-18-2021   TSO Table II
12-2021  6-1-2021    TSO Table II
13-2021  6-15-2021   TSO Table II
6-2022   7-19-2021   TSO Table I
19-2021  12-7-2021   TSO Table II
3-2022   4-19-2022   TSO Table IV
4-2022   4-19-2022   TSO Table IV
3-2022   4-19-2022   TSO Table IV
4-2022   4-19-2022   TSO Table IV
9-2022   11-15-2022  31.20
13-2022  12-20-2022  TSO Table II
14-2022  12-20-2022  TSO Table II
15-2022  12-20-2022  TSO Table II
16-2022  12-20-2022  TSO Table II
1-2023   2-28-2023   TSO Table I
2-2023   3-7-2023    TSO Table IV
6-2023   5-16-2023   TSO Table I
7-2023   7-18-2023   31.20
9-2023   8-15-2023   35.16,
                     35.20
11-2023  10-3-2023   TSO Table I
14-2023  12-5-2023   31.20
17-2023  12-19-2023  31.20
18-2023  12-19-2023  TSO Table II
1-2024   2-6-2024    31.20
2-2024   5-7-2024    31.20
3-2024   7-2-2024    56.01–
                     56.19
4-2024   7-16-2024   TSO Table I
5-2024   7-16-2024   TSO Table I
6-2024   7-16-2024   TSO Table I
7-2024   7-16-2024   TSO Table I
8-2024   7-16-2024   TSO Table I
9-2024   8-6-2024    TSO Table II
10-2024  8-20-2024   TSO Table II
11-2024  8-20-2024   TSO Table II
                    
 
 
