MORGAN COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-29, passed 12-16-2024;
and State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2014-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR MORGAN COUNTY. INDIANA
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Morgan County, Indiana
("Commissioners"), are the legislative body for Morgan County, Indiana;
   WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-5-3, the commissioners must codify, revise,
rearrange or compile the ordinances of Morgan County into a complete,
simplified code excluding formal parts of the ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, commissioners have authorized a general compilation, revision and
codification of the general and permanent ordinances of Morgan County and
publication of the same in book form.
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Morgan County,
Indiana, as follows:
   1.   The general ordinances of Morgan County, Indiana, as revised, amended,
restated, codified and as compiled in book form, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of Morgan County, Indiana".
   2.   The code of ordinances shall consist of the following titles, as set
forth in the Table of Contents, attached hereto and made a part hereof as
Exhibit “A”.
   3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the code of
ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as they are included and reordained, in whole or in part, in
the code of ordinances; provided such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of the ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provision of ordinances
that levy taxes, appropriate money, annex or detach territory, establish
franchises, or grant special rights to certain persons, authorize public
improvements, authorize the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorize
the purchase or sale of real estate or personal property, grant or accept
easements, plat or dedicate land to public use, vacate or set boundaries of
street or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance
of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained or
covered in the code.
   4.   The code shall be deemed published as of the date of the adoption of
this ordinance and two copies of the code shall be on file in the office of the
Morgan County Auditor for public inspection.
   5.   The code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts, and any legal
proceeding, a) of all the provisions of the code, including all sections,
penalties, are regulations therein; b) the date of adoption of the code; c)
that the code has been properly signed, attested, recorded and approved; and d)
that any public hearings have been held, with any notices required.
   ALL OF WHICH IS ORDAINED this 29th day of August, 2014.
                     THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF MORGAN COUNTY, INDIANA
                     Norman Voyles /s/
                     Norman Voyles, Commissioner
                     Don Adams /s/
                     Don Adams, Commissioner
                     Brian Goss /s/
                     Brian Goss, Commissioner
Attest:
Brenda Adams /s/
Brenda Adams
Morgan County Auditor
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2016-4
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR
MORGAN COUNTY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and,
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Morgan County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of Indiana; and,
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MORGAN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   1.   That the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of Morgan County, Indiana, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY MORGAN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS THIS 20TH DAY OF JUNE, 2016.
/s/ Norman Voyles                 /s/ Brian Goss
Norman Voyles, Commissioner            Brian Goss, Commissioner
/s/ Don Adams
Don Adams, Commissioner
                     ATTEST:
                      /s/ Dan Bastin
                         Dan Bastin, Morgan County Auditor
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2017-11
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR
MORGAN COUNTY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017 supplement to the Code of Ordinance of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and,
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Morgan County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of Indiana; and,
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
county and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the county that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MORGAN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   1.   That the 2017 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of Morgan County, Indiana, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED BY MORGAN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS THIS 2ND DAY OF OCTOBER,
2017.
/s/ Norman Voyles              /s/ Brian Goss
Norman Voyles, Commissioner            Brian Goss, Commissioner
 
/s/ Ryan Goodwin
Ryan Goodwin, Commissioner
                     ATTEST:
                      /s/ Dan Bastin
                     Dan Bastin, Morgan County Auditor
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2018-14
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
MORGAN COUNTY INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2018 S3 supplement to the Code of Ordinance of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and,
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF MORGAN COUNTY, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2018 S3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 5th day of November, 2018.
               MORGAN COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                   /s/ Norman Voyles
                  Norman Voyles
                   /s/ Ryan Goodwin
                  Ryan Goodwin
                   /s/ Brian Goss
                  Brian Goss
ATTEST:
/s/ Dan Bastin
Dan Bastin
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2021-8
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
MORGAN COUNTY, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2021 S4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Morgan County,
Indiana (hereinafter the “county”), which supplement contains all ordinances of
a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code
of Ordinances of the county; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners, as the county’s
legislative body, to accept these updated sections in accordance with the
changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
county and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
and general welfare of the county that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MORGAN COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   That the 2021 S4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Morgan
County, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be approved and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Clerk of Morgan
County, Indiana is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of Morgan County, Indiana, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
   SO APPROVED AND ORDAINED, on this 7th day of June, 2021.
               MORGAN COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                   /s/ Don Adams
                  Don Adams
                   /s/ Kenny Hale
                  Kenny Hale
                   /s/ Bryan Collier
                  Bryan Collier
ATTEST:
/s/ Dan Bastin
Dan Bastin
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “County Code”, for
which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY. Morgan County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
of Commissioners refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
adjudication, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BOARD OF HEALTH
      
32.   BOUNDARIES AND DISTRICTS
      
33.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   FEES, TAX AND FINANCE
      
36.   JAIL/INMATE PROVISIONS
      
37.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
38.   PERSONNEL AND SALARIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Administration Provisions
   
30.01   County Highway Department; remove overburden from gravel pit
   
30.02   Appliance removal
   
30.03   Microfilm Department controlled by County Clerk
   
30.04   Appointing purchasing agents
   
30.05   Records for fixed assets
   
30.06   Veteran’s grave marker allowance
   
30.07   County weights and measures compliance regulations
   
30.08   Smoke-free county buildings
   
30.09   Authority of Auditor to make certain claim payments in advance
   
30.10   Use of credit cards authorized
   
30.11   Public marking of county motorized vehicles and motorized heavy
equipment
   
30.12   County seal
County Courthouse
   
30.20   Area adjacent to the county courthouse
   
30.21   Possession of weapons
   
30.22   Use of emergency exits
Economic Development
   
30.35   Economic Development for a Growing Economy incentive
   
30.36   Data center incentive to promote investment and job growth
   
30.37   Investment Policy
Internal Control Policy and Procedures
   
30.45   Adoption and implementation
   
30.46   Minimum level of internal control standards and procedures
   
30.47   Principles and explanation of standards
   
30.48   Design, implementation, operation and modification of current standards
   
30.49   Authorization
   
30.50   Board composition and terms
   
30.51   Compliance with standards
   
30.52   Training
   
30.53   Internal Control Oversight Committee
   
30.54   Cooperation of employees
   
30.55   Failure of compliance
Materiality Policy and Process for Reporting Material Items
   
30.65   Variances, losses, shortages, or thefts
   
30.66   Reports of variance
   
30.67   Fraud
   
30.68   Compliance
 
   
30.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   County organizations, see
Chapter 33
   Emergency management, see
Chapter 34
   Fees, tax and finance, see
Chapter 35
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 37
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT; REMOVE OVERBURDEN FROM GRAVEL PIT.
   (A)   In any given calendar year, the Board of Commissioners desires to sell
top soil or other overburden at such gravel pit and sand and gravel extraction
operation maintained by the county, the County Commissioners shall appoint two
individuals in the county who are familiar with the current market value of
such top soil and other overburden and said individuals shall file a statement
of the current market value in the county for such top soil and/or other
overburden, and shall break the same down into such classifications as are, in
its opinion, reasonable and consistent with the market standards for such
material and shall upon such statement indicate such current market price for
each category, and after completion of such statement, file the same with the
Auditor of the county. Such statement shall be subject to the approval of the
Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (B)   Upon the filing of such statement of market value the County Highway
Department may, without advertising, sell such top soil and/or other overburden
to any individuals, partnerships or corporations desiring to purchase the same
at such market price.
   (C)   All sales of such top soil and/or other overburden shall be at the
site of the county gravel pit and gravel and sand extraction and all
transportation for the removal thereof shall be provided by the purchaser at
his or her expense; provided, further, that the county may, at its option, load
such top soil and/or other overburden.
   (D)   The County Highway Department shall be in charge of such sales, and
shall assign personnel to control such sales, measure the loads of top soil
and/or other overburden, and receive and account for payments.
   (E)   The terms of all such sales shall be cash.
   (F)   Upon receipt of such cash, the County Highway Department shall issue a
receipt for such purchase price to the purchaser from a book of consecutively
numbered receipts and retain a carbon copy of the same.
   (G)   All bookkeeping and accounting for such receipts shall in all ways
comply with the regulations and directives of the State Board of Accounts.
   (H)   The money so received from the sale of top soil and/or other
overburden shall be deposited in the County Highway Fund and applied to the
cost of maintenance and operation of such gravel pit and gravel and sand
extraction operation.
   (I)   In no event shall any instrumentality of the county advertise or
expend any funds promoting such sales other than such expenses as are normal to
the operation of such gravel pit and gravel and sand extraction operation.
(Ord. 1-4-3, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 30.02 APPLIANCE REMOVAL.
   (A)   APPLIANCES, as defined herein, shall mean stoves, washers, dryers,
dishwashers, water heaters and similar items which are commonly used in
households.
   (B)   Defined herein, CFC APPLIANCES shall mean refrigerators, freezers, air
conditioners, dehumidifiers and similar appliances commonly found in the home
which may contain cooling coils, which may contain refrigerant gas (CFC).
   (C)   Both appliances and CFC appliances may be accepted at the County
Highway Department location on Blue Bluff Road in Martinsville, Morgan County,
Indiana during business hours and hours during which said location is open to
the general public.
   (D)   The location at the County Highway Department shall be designated for
the dropoff of such appliances and CFC appliances.
   (E)   Anyone wishing to drop off such appliances or CFC appliances shall pay
the following amount to the personnel designated by the County Highway
Department to be in charge of such location and to receive such funds:
      (1)   For CFC appliances: $18; and
      (2)   For all other appliances: $10.
   (F)   For such sums so received, a receipt shall be given to the person
delivering such appliance. Such receipt shall be written on a form approved by
the State Board of Accounts.
   (G)   Said monies so received shall be turned over to the Treasurer of the
county, and out of such funds, a fee shall be paid for the removal of said
appliances and said CFC appliances to a recycling center or other location
specified by the county.
   (H)   The remaining funds shall remain with the Treasurer of the county,
subject to the appropriation of the County Highway Department to cover the
expenses of implementing this section.
(Ord. 4-3-1.2, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 30.03 MICROFILM DEPARTMENT CONTROLLED BY THE COUNTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Microfilm Department is hereby transferred to the control and
supervision of the County Clerk.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall henceforth be responsible for the control and
direction of the personnel of such department and shall have all authority and
responsibility as set forth in the County Personnel Policy.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall be responsible to oversee, direct, supervise
and plan the operations of such Microfilm Department.
(Ord. 1-4-4, passed 12-16-1996)
§ 30.04 APPOINTING PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that it is the purchasing
agency for the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates the following persons to
serve as purchasing agents for the county:
      (1)   Each elected county official;
      (2)   Each Circuit and Superior Court Judge;
      (3)   The County Highway Superintendent;
      (4)   Each department head; and
      (5)   The County Engineer.
   (C)   The purchasing agent authority is limited to that which is authorized
by the budget of such department or office and/or the authority of the Board of
Commissioners and the County Council to review such purchasing as to the
general scheme of purchasing or particular equipment or purchases.
   (D)   Such purchasing shall be consistent with I.C. 5-22 and rules that may
be promulgated from time to time by the Board of Commissions.
   (E)   Authorization. Each purchasing agent as set forth above shall have all
the powers and duties authorized as a purchasing agency under I.C. 5-22.
   (F)   List of agents. A list of purchasing agents not enumerated above and/
or deputy purchasing agents for each department or functional unit shall be
updated immediately upon changes in personnel. All changes shall be reported to
the Auditor. A copy of such list shall be provided annually to the
Commissioners not later than January 10 of each calendar year. The purchasing
agency may designate, in writing, additional purchasing agents as necessary.
   (G)   Approval requirements. Prior to the approval, acceptance or execution
of any purchase, contract, amendment, or change order by any purchasing agent
of the county, such proposed purchase, contract, amendment, or change order
must satisfy approved Council appropriations and amounts intended to be
utilized for the purchase, contract, amendment, or change order and upon the
approval, acceptance, or execution of the purchase, contract, amendment, or
change order, such sum shall be encumbered for such purpose.
   (H)   Purchases. The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an
estimated cost between $10,000 and $50,000 on the open market after inviting
three quotes, and otherwise in a manner the purchaser determines to be
reasonable, so long as it doesn't conflict with existing state statute. These
purchases require Commissioner review of the claims and approval in the normal
course of approval of a claims docket.
   (I)   Small purchases. Under I.C. 5-22-8-2, the following is the county's
small purchase policy. With the exception of the items listed as exempt from
the public purchasing laws, purchases costing less than $10,000 are governed by
this policy.
      (1)   The purchasing agent shall compare prices from as many responsible
suppliers of supplies, or service companies known to provide the relevant types
of services, as is practical under each circumstance, as determined by the
purchasing agent. The purchasing agent should make a purchase where total costs
are lowest, taking into consideration any applicable preferences (incorporated
here by reference, as noted in I.C. 5-22-15-16, 5-22-20-9, and 5-22-20-2), when
quality and timeliness of delivery are comparable. Comparison pricing can be
obtained via telephone, letter, email, or otherwise.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall not artificially divide purchases so as
to constitute a small purchase.
      (3)   Nothing in this policy shall be interpreted to preclude the
purchasing agent from making a special purchase, as that term is referenced
under I.C. 5-22.
   (J)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies between $50,000 and
$150,000, but I.C. 5-22-8-3 shall be followed for those purchases, with
Commissioner approval required for any contract relating to the purchase, and
for any purchases requiring financing.
(Ord. 1-3-4, passed 9-21-1998; Ord. 2024-6, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 30.05 RECORDS FOR FIXED ASSETS.
   (A)   Each office or department shall maintain an inventory of all fixed
assets (that is, all furniture, fixtures and equipment within its department or
office).
   (B)   Such inventory shall include all items within the office or department
having a value at acquisition of $10,000 or more.
   (C)   This inventory shall be updated no less than annually and submitted to
the Auditor of the county on or before December 15 of each year.
   (D)   In the event of trade in upon replacement, sale, depreciation (that is
the value is then less than the minimum stated herein), transfer to another
office or department notation shall be made upon the inventory wherein an item
is deleted.
   (E)   This section shall be effective upon passage and shall be distributed
to all office holders and departments.
(Ord. 1-2-11, passed 10-4-1999; Ord. 1-2-11.1, passed 2-19-2007; Ord. 1-2-11.2,
passed 2-20-2012)
§ 30.06 VETERAN’S GRAVE MARKER ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   A person is eligible to receive the veteran's grave marker allowance
if the person:
      (1)   Has served as a member of the armed forces of the United States as
a soldier, sailor, or marine in the army, air force, or navy of the United
States or as a member of the women's components of the army, air force, or navy
of the United States, is a resident of Indiana, and dies while a member of the
armed forces and before discharge from the armed forces or after receiving an
honorable discharge from the armed forces; or
      (2)   Is the spouse or surviving spouse of a person described in division
(A) and is a resident of Indiana.
   (B)   In order to receive the veteran's grave marker allowance, an
interested person must file a claim with the Commissioners stating the fact:
      (1)   Of the service, death, and discharge if discharged from service
before death; and
      (2)   The body has been buried in a decent and respectable manner in a
cemetery or burial ground.
   (C)    The County Board of Commissioners shall contribute not more than $200
to the expense of a grave marker for each eligible veteran or spouse, all as
authorized and set forth in I.C. 10-17-10 et. seq.
(Ord. 1-2-14, passed 6-18-2001; Ord. 1-2-14.1, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 2023-25,
passed 11-6-2023)
§ 30.07 COUNTY WEIGHTS AND MEASURES COMPLIANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words
have the meanings indicated:
      COUNTY INSPECTOR. Shall be the person or persons duly authorized to
inspect weighing or measuring instruments in Morgan County.
      INSTRUMENT. Shall be any scale, weight, beam, measure, meter or weighing
or measuring device of every kind or parts thereof, subject to regulation by
the Division of Weights and Measures of the State Department of Health.
   (B)   Compliance with state standards required. No person engaged in the
business of selling, buying, exchanging goods or commodities by weight,
measurement or volume shall use an instrument in his business operations for
such purpose if such instrument does not meet the standards established by the
State of Indiana or the Division of Weight and Measures of the State Department
of Health and that has not been inspected and approved by County Inspector. A
person who violates this section shall be fined $50.
   (C)   Inspection of mobile instruments.
      (1)   If an instrument is mobile or otherwise operated at more than one
location and is not made available to be inspected by the County Inspector at a
permanent business location during regular business hours of the county, the
County Inspector shall have the authority to order the owner or operator to
present the instrument for inspection by the County Inspector at a time and
location designated by the County Inspector.
      (2)   A person who fails to comply with such orders of the County
Inspector shall be fined $50.
   (D)   Instrument installation and repair. All owners or operators of
instruments shall inform the County Inspector that an instrument has been
installed or repaired and provide the County Inspector with the location of
said instrument. Before the instrument is placed in service, the County
Inspector shall certify its accuracy and affix a security seal and/or annual
approval seal. A person who violates this section shall be fined $50 for each
such instrument placed into service without such certification and seal.
   (E)   Numbering of instruments. Any person who owns or operates more than
one instrument of a particular type at a business location shall serially
number each instrument in such a manner that each instrument shall be readily
distinguishable from all other such instruments of that type present at that
location. A person who violates this section shall be fined $25.
   (F)   Security and approval seals.
      (1)   When a weighing or measuring device is security sealed by a County
Inspector, such security seal shall not be cut, severed or removed without
permission of a County Inspector. Any weighing or measuring device designed to
be security sealed shall be sealed by a County Inspector.
      (2)   If the instrument bears an annual approval seal on its exterior,
such approval seal shall not be altered, defaced or removed.
      (3)   No security seal or annual approval seal shall be valid in the
county except a seal authorized by the County Inspector.
      (4)   No instrument shall be used in the business of selling, buying,
bartering, or exchanging of goods or commodities if:
         (a)   The security seal has been cut, severed, or removed; or
         (b)   The event counter, event logger, or other analogous component
that generates an electronic audit trail for the instrument has been
recalibrated
until it is resealed by the County Inspector or permission is given by the
County Inspector if immediate resealing is impractical.
      (5)   Repairmen whose equipment is certified under I.C. 24-1-1-4 may
remove a security seal for the purpose of making repairs without prior approval
of the County Inspector. Repairmen who cut, sever or remove a security seal
shall notify the County Inspector within 24 hours.
      (6)   A person who violates this section shall be fined $100.
   (G)   Commodity regulations.
      (1)   All persons engaged in the selling, buying, bartering or exchanging
goods or commodities must sell, buy, barter or exchange the goods or
commodities using the legal method of selling, buying, bartering or exchanging
such goods or commodities as required by the National Conference on Weights and
Measures Sale of Commodities Regulation.
      (2)   All commodities and goods offered for sale in package or containers
shall meet all labeling requirements of the National Conference on Weights and
Measures Packaging and Labeling Regulations. A manufacturer, wholesale
distributor or retail seller who violates this section may be fined as follows
for the number of such units at each location where they are available for
purchase:
 
1 to 25 units     $50
26 to 50 units    $100
51 to 75 units    $150
76 to 100 units   $200
101 to 200 units  $400
201 or more units $500
 
      (3)   All commodities when required to be sold by weight must be sold by
net weight and all commodities required to be sold my measure or count shall be
accurate as required.
      (4)   The manufacturer, wholesale distributor or retail seller of a
prepackaged commodity which is less than the weight, measure or count
designated on its package may be fined as follows for the number of such units
at each location where they are available for purchase:
 
1 to 25 units     $50
26 to 50 units    $100
51 to 75 units    $150
76 to 100 units   $200
101 to 200 units  $400
201 or more units $500
 
   (H)   User fee for courtesy services. The County Inspector may collect a fee
which shall not exceed $20 for inspecting or calibrating any scale or measuring
device which is not used in the business of selling, buying or exchanging goods
or commodities, and is not subject to regulation by the Division of Weights and
Measures of the State Board of Health. The fee shall be deposited into the
dedicated non-reverting fund which is used for capital purchases for the
Weights and Measures Department.
   (I)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The County Inspector may issue to the violator a citation which
shall be written on a citation ticket and kept on file in the Weights and
Measures Office.
      (2)   If the violator does not pay the fine and/or correct the problem
within ten days, the matter shall be referred to the County Attorney for
prosecution.
      (3)   The fine shall be doubled if the person has a violation of this
section within the last one year.
      (4)   Each day the violation continues constitutes a separate violation.
      (5)   All fines shall be deposited into a dedicated, non-reverting fund
to be used for capital purchases for the Weights and Measures Department,
subject to appropriation of funds by the Morgan County Council.
(Ord. 1-4-15, passed 12-26-2001; Ord. 2009-11, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 2018-6,
passed 8-31-2018)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.08 SMOKE-FREE COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Smoking and vaping shall not be allowed on the property of the County
Administrative Building and Judicial Campus outside of designated smoking
areas. A designated smoking and vaping area has been provided in the parking
area for the County Administrative Building and Judicial Campus, with seating
and a receptacle for disposal of smoking and vaping materials. The
Commissioners, at their discretion, may elect to designate one or more
additional smoking areas in the future.
   (B)   Signage will be conspicuously placed near entrances and on other
locations around the County Administrative Building and Judicial Campus clearly
stating that smoking and vaping are prohibited on the property except in the
designated smoking area or areas.
   (C)   This section shall not be interpreted to permit smoking or vaping
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws or to supercede any
state or local laws which are more restrictive.
(Ord. 1-4-21, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 2024-26, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.09 AUTHORITY OF AUDITOR TO MAKE CERTAIN CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   The County Auditor is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
allowance by the Commissioners for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions.
      (2)   License or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements.
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements.
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State or federal taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)   Fees or expenses related to conferences, meeting registrations,
association dues, lodging and transportation.
      (14)   Reimbursement to employees for expenses authorized and approved
under the personnel policy and employee handbook or other policy adopted by the
county.
      (15)   Reimbursement to employees under circumstances where an employee
advanced payment on behalf of the county for authorized expenses that could not
be otherwise invoiced or paid by the county.
      (16)   Expenses described in any ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses made in advance under this section shall be
supported by a fully itemized invoice of bill and certified by the County
Auditor.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall review and allow any claim paid in advance
under this section at its next regular or special meeting.
   (D)   The ordinance codified herein shall be effective immediately upon
approval and shall ratify any claims paid in advance according to the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 1-4-24, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 30.10 USE OF CREDIT CARDS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Authorization for use of credit card. The County Auditor is hereby
authorized to acquire and use a credit card subject to the terms and conditions
of this section.
   (B)   Designation of credit card issuer. The Board of Commissioners shall
designate a bank or credit card company as the sole issuer of the credit card
(s) for use by the County Auditor for county departments and elected officials.
   (C)   Accounting. The County Auditor shall maintain an accounting system or
log for each card which includes the name of any individual requesting the
usage of the card, their position, amounts to be charged, fund and account
numbers to be charged, the date that the card was used. All credit card
receipts for all charges shall be maintained by the Auditor.
   (D)   Use, custody, submission of claims, interest and late fees. The County
Auditor shall be responsible for authorizing all uses of the credit card(s),
physical custody of the credit card(s), and the timely submission of claims for
its invoices. Claims shall include the invoice and supporting documents, such
as credit card transaction receipt, purchase receipt, pay bill, or other
documentation as may be required to verify all charges and use of the card. The
Auditor shall upon receipt of the documentation required under this section,
issue or cause to be issued a check payable to the bank, credit union, or
credit card company for the amount of the claim. In no event shall checks for
claims or credit card charges be issued in the name of, or to the individual
who incurred the charge(s). Any interest, penalty, or fee incurred due to late
filing of the claim or furnishing of documentation required by this section or
the County Auditor, shall be the responsibility of the county official or
department head for whose use the credit card was requested. Any interest,
penalty, or fees incurred due to delays by the Auditor's Office in processing
the claim after all required documentation has been submitted shall be the
responsibility of the Auditor's Office.
   (E)   Charge limit; cash advances prohibited. A monthly charge limit shall
be established by the Board of Commissioners for each credit card issued under
this chapter. There shall be no more than four credit cards issued, with an
aggregate credit limit that shall not exceed $20,000, which may be amended from
time to time as the Commissioners deem appropriate. No cash advances shall be
permitted in the use of the credit card.
   (F)   Permitted uses. Credit card may be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   Air, rail, or bus transportation associated with county business
and incurred consistent with the Morgan County Personnel Policy.
      (2)   Car rental and car rental repairs incurred consistent with the
Morgan County Personnel Policy.
      (3)   Lodging expenses which would otherwise be eligible for employee
reimbursement in accordance with the County Personnel Policy.
      (4)   Conference or seminar registration fees, educational course fees,
or school tuition fees authorized according to the County Personnel Policy.
      (5)   Purchases of goods or services in instances where utilization of
the credit card would provide a substantial savings to the county government
and when approved in advance by the County Auditor.
      (6)   All costs related to the transportation needs of the County
Prosecutor with respect to the investigation and prosecution of crimes,
including transportation expenses incurred for witnesses and/or law enforcement
personnel.
      (7)   Meals as part of authorized travel, including a maximum of 15%
gratuity.
      (8)   Other unforeseen uses that are judged to be beneficial to the
county and/or will provide a substantial savings to county government when
approved in advance by the County Auditor.
   (G)   Prohibited usage. The credit card shall not be used for any of the
following purposes:
      (1)   The personal use by any employee, department head, or elected
official.
      (2)   Any purchase for which there is not an existing appropriation at
the time of the use.
      (3)   Any purchase which would not be eligible for employee reimbursement
in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Morgan County Personnel
Policy.
      (4)   Cash advances.
      (5)   Alcoholic beverages.
      (6)   Gasoline or repairs for any non-county owned vehicle.
      (7)   Conference or seminar registration fees, educational course fees,
or school tuition fees which are not required to be paid in advance.
   (H)   Loss or theft. Any authorized user of a credit card shall report the
loss or theft of the credit card immediately upon discovery to the Board of
Commissioners.
   (I)   Revocation of credit card. The Board of Commissioners may revoke the
credit card privileges of any elected official, department head, or office who
is found to be in violation of the terms of this section and may take or
recommend disciplinary action against the violator.
   (J)   Unauthorized purchases. Any purchase made, intentionally or
unintentionally, in violation of this section shall be paid back by the
employee within five business days of being notified by the County Auditor. If
the employee or elected official that used the credit card discovers that it
was used in violation of this section, he or she shall immediately notify the
County Auditor. Any employee that knowingly uses the county's credit card(s) in
an unauthorized manner may be disciplined, which can include any acceptable
discipline or sanction up to and including termination.
(Ord. 1-4-23, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2023-17, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 30.11 PUBLIC MARKING OF COUNTY MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND MOTORIZED HEAVY
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All county-owned motorized vehicles and motorized heavy equipment for
use on or for maintaining public roadways, unless exempted in this section,
shall be conspicuously marked in a way that clearly identifies the vehicle as a
public vehicle.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a MOTORIZED VEHICLE shall mean any self-
propelled, wheeled vehicle designed for transportation of people or cargo.
MOTORIZED HEAVY EQUIPMENT shall mean any self-propelled, wheeled heavy vehicle
designed for work on construction projects on public roadways and related uses.
   (C)   Identifying text markings shall be of contrasting color to the vehicle
or equipment and not less than three inches in height or the county logo, as
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners or other departmental logo or
insignia provided it is at least 12 inches in diameter and displayed on both
sides of the vehicle in contrasting colors with the words "Morgan County" and
the department assigned the vehicle or equipment.
   (D)   For county-owned vehicles not assigned to a specific office, it shall
be compliant to utilize the county logo, as adopted by the Board of
Commissioners, and displayed on both sides of the vehicle in a diameter of at
least 12 inches. Markings identifying a specific department is not required for
vehicles not assigned a specific office.
   (E)   For small vehicles or motorized equipment, for use on public roadways,
that for structural reasons cannot be marked in the manner described above,
they shall be marked with letters of contrasting color, with a height of not
less than three inches, the words "Morgan County," with the department name
assigned the vehicle or equipment. For example, a bulldozer may be compliant
with simple, contrasting color lettering reading: "Morgan County Highway Dept."
   (F)   As part of the public marking requirement, all motorized vehicles and
motorized heavy equipment shall also be marked with an identifying number,
corresponding to a documented inventory system. Such numbers shall be clearly
visible, in a contrasting color, and at least three inches in height, unless
for structural reasons, a lessor height should be necessary. The identifying
number shall be placed on the left side of the vehicle and on the rear of the
vehicle.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, only vehicles or mobile equipment
utilized in the following circumstances shall be exempted from the public
marking requirement set forth in this section.
      (1)   Sheriff Department vehicles used in investigations or for
clandestine purposes;
      (2)   Vehicles utilized by court services, probation or community
corrections used solely in an undercover or confidential manner; or
      (3)   Vehicles utilized solely for confidential public health work.
   (H)   All motorized vehicles and motorized heavy equipment markings required
under this section shall be maintained in a legible condition at all times.
   (I)   The requirements in this section shall be in effect for all vehicles
and motorized equipment for use on public roadways, unless exempted, owned on,
and after, May 1, 2019.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 30.12 COUNTY SEAL.
   An official corporate seal is hereby adopted as the common seal for the
county, and such seal shall be described as follows: The seal is a perfect
circle. Centered in the circle just above the centerline of the circle is an
image of the sun rising above hills that are beyond a plowed field. Centered in
the circle below the centerline of the circle are the following words, "Morgan
County Indiana." Morgan is in script. County is below the word Morgan, in block
letters, stopping at the "g", Indiana is below Morgan, in block letters, after
the "g." Centered at the bottom of the circle are the words "Est.1822"
following the arc of the circle.
(Ord. 2022-20, passed 12-30-2022)
COUNTY COURTHOUSE
§ 30.20 AREA ADJACENT TO THE COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   The county concurs with the resolution of the Martinsville City
Council duly adopted on May 21, 1984, whereby the county accepts jurisdiction
of the streets surrounding and adjacent to the county courthouse and reaching
to the so-called island, the same being a concrete barrier in the middle of the
streets surrounding the county courthouse, namely Morgan, Jefferson, Washington
and Main Streets.
   (B)   The county agrees to maintain the streets and all pavement or traffic
portion on which traffic travels lying between the courthouse and such island.
   (C)   The county will assume responsibility for determining the traffic
pattern and parking on said roadway as heretofore set forth.
   (D)   On the south and west sides of the courthouse parking shall be
diagonal. On the north side, for the inside area toward the courthouse, the
parking shall be diagonal; on the outside area, the parking shall be parallel;
on the east side the parking shall be entirely parallel.
   (E)   All traffic on the inside of said island shall be one-way, the same
being clockwise.
   (F)   Specific parking places shall be set forth as follows: on the east
side of the courthouse, four parking places shall, be designated for the
Sheriff’s office and other police agencies for official business at the
courthouse. Also at the courthouse, a designated parking area shall be
exclusively for as follows:
      (1)   Prosecutor’s office: one;
      (2)   Judge of the Circuit Court: one;
      (3)   Judge of the Superior Court: one; and
      (4)   Judge of the County Court: one.
   (G)   The County Highway Department is authorized to do all acts necessary
and proper to implement this section.
(Ord. 7-1-2, passed 6-18-1984)
§ 30.21 POSSESSION OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATION BUILDING. Shall refer to the Morgan County Administration
Building, located at 180 South Main Street, Martinsville, Morgan County,
Indiana, 46151.
      COURTHOUSE. Shall refer to the Morgan County Courthouse located at 10
East Washington Street, Martinsville, Morgan County, Indiana, 46151.
      COURTHOUSE ANNEX. Shall refer to the Morgan County Courthouse Annex
located at 65 North Jefferson Street, Martinsville, Morgan County, Indiana,
46151.
      FIREARM. Shall be as defined by I.C. 35-47-1-5.
      WEAPON. Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   “Deadly weapon” as defined by I.C. 35-31.5-2-86;
         (b)   “Electric stun weapon” as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-1;
         (c)   “Stun gun” as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-2;
         (d)   “Taser” as defined by Indiana Code § 35-47-8-3;
         (e)   “Knife”;
         (f)   “Explosive” refers to any agent or substance tending or serving
to explode. EXPLOSIVE shall include, but be not limited to, gunpowder and
dynamite;
         (g)   “Club”; and/or
         (h)   Any other object that in the manner in which it is used, or
could ordinarily be used, or is intended to be used, is readily capable of
causing serious bodily injury (as defined by I.C. 35-31.5-2-86).
   (B)   Restrictions. Except as provided in division (C) below, a person shall
not possess on or about his or her person a weapon within the County
Courthouse, the Administration Building or the Courthouse Annex. Except as
provided in division (C) below, a person shall not possess on or about his or
her person a firearm within the County Courthouse. A person may not
intentionally display a firearm at a public meeting located upon any property
owned by Morgan County, including the Courthouse, Administration Building and
Courthouse Annex.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following persons who are in the Courthouse, Administration
Building or Courthouse Annex for official business and duly authorized to carry
weapons or firearms are exempt from application of this section:
         (a)   Law enforcement officers, as defined under I.C. 35-31.5-2-185;
         (b)   State Department of Correction officers;
         (c)   Community correction officers;
         (d)   Judicial officers; and
         (e)   Probation officers.
      (2)   Possession of a chemical spray device used for personal protection
by a county employee working within the Courthouse, Administration Building or
Courthouse Annex is exempt from application of this section.
      (3)   The above exemptions shall not apply to any person who is otherwise
exempt if they are appearing, or accompanying a family member who is appearing
before any court located in the Courthouse, Administration Building or
Courthouse Annex for any proceedings unless they are appearing in their
official capacity or as a result of their employment.
   (D)   Enforcement. Any violation of this section may be enforced by the
County Prosecutor or the County Attorney in a proceeding before the Board of
Commissioners of the county or as a civil proceeding before any Superior Court
or Circuit Court of the county.
(Ord. 1-1-4, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 1-1-4.1, passed 12-30-2013)
§ 30.22 USE OF EMERGENCY EXITS.
   (A)   The south entrance of the county courthouse, located at 10 East
Washington Street, Martinsville, Morgan County, Indiana, 46151, shall be
designated as the public entrance and exit for the building.
   (B)   All other entrances and exits of the county courthouse shall be closed
to the public, except for authorized use or in the case of an emergency.
   (C)   This section shall be effective immediately upon the posting of
conspicuous signs at each such entrance or exit which prohibit the use of such
exits and entrances, except as authorized herein.
(Ord. 1-4-9.1, passed 4-10-2004) Penalty, see §
30.99
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 30.35 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FOR A GROWING ECONOMY INCENTIVE.
   (A)   There is established the County Economic Development for a Growing
Economy (County EDGE) incentive program.
   (B)   QUALIFIED EMPLOYER means a private firm that hires seven or more
county residents for newly created jobs if the firm has a business presence in
the county at the time of application for the County EDGE.
   (C)   The County EDGE shall provide an incentive payment to a qualified
employer who creates new jobs located in the county that are filled by the
county residents. The amount of the incentive payment shall be determined by
the decision matrix contained in Attachment A, attached to the ordinance from
which this section is derived.
   (D)   In order for a qualified employer to receive an incentive payment, the
award of the County EDGE incentive must be approved by the County Council prior
to the fulfillment of the jobs. An application for an award of a County EDGE
shall be presented to the County Council by a representative of the County
Economic Development Corporation, with a recommendation for approval of the
EDGE incentive.
   (E)   An annual audit of the qualified employer shall be carried out by the
County Treasurer, or the designee thereof, including the County Economic
Development Corporation as a qualified designee, prior to the transfer of an
incentive payment to the qualified employer. Such an audit shall confirm the
number of employees who are residents of the county who were hired under an
expansion of employment qualified under this section for the county EDGE, the
amount of wages the county resident employees received, and the amount of EDIT
tax paid by the county resident employees. The Treasurer shall confirm the
total amount county EDIT tax paid by the qualified county resident employees,
and that amount shall be provided as the incentive payment to the qualified
employer.
(Ord. 1-2-20.7, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 30.36 DATA CENTER INCENTIVE TO PROMOTE INVESTMENT AND JOB GROWTH.
   There is established the County Data Center Personal Property Tax Exemption
(DCTE) incentive program.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. An entity that meets the following requirements:
         (a)   The entity is engaged in a business that operates one or more
facilities dedicated to computing, networking or data storage activities;
         (b)   The entity is located in a facility or data center in the state;
         (c)   The entity invests in the aggregate at least $10,000,000 in real
and personal property in the state after June 30, 2009; and
         (d)   The average employee wage of the entity is at least 125% of the
county average wage for each county in which the entity conducts business
operations.
      ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT. The following:
         (a)   Hardware supporting computing, networking or data storage
function, including servers and routers;
         (b)   Networking systems having an industry designation as equipment
within the “enterprise” or “data center” class of networking systems that
support the computing, networking or data storage functions;
         (c)   Generators and other equipment used to ensure an uninterrupted
power supply to equipment described in divisions (a) or (b) above; and
         (d)   The term does not include computer hardware designed for single
user, workstation or departmental level use.
      QUALIFIED PROPERTY. Enterprise information technology equipment purchased
after June 30, 2009.
   (B)   The County DCTE shall provide an exemption from property taxes on
personal property for an eligible entity’s qualified property. After the
adoption of a declaratory resolution to provide an exemption, the Council shall
conduct a hearing and provide notice as required under I.C. 6-1.1-10-44(g), and
may adopt a final resolution providing that qualified property owned by a
particular eligible business is exempt from property taxation. The second and
final resolution may modify, confirm or rescind the declaratory resolution.
   (C)   The property tax exemption applies to the qualified property only if
the Council and the eligible business enter into an agreement concerning the
property tax exemption.
      (1)   The agreement must specify the duration of the property tax
exemption.
      (2)   The agreement may specify that if the ownership of qualified
property is transferred by an eligible business, the transferee is entitled to
the property tax exemption on the same terms as the transferor.
      (3)   If the Council adopts a final resolution and enters into an
agreement with an eligible business, the qualified property owned by the
eligible business is exempt from property taxation as provided in the
resolution and the agreement.
(Ord. 1-2-20.8, passed 2-7-2011)
§ 30.37 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Morgan County Investment Policy, as attached to Ordinance 2023-13
and incorporated herein by reference, is approved and adopted by the Council.
   (B)   The investing officer, the Morgan County Board of Finance, and any
other official(s), agent(s), employee(s), or other such person(s) as may from
time to time participate in decisions concerning the investments of the county
shall-be guided in such determinations and recommendations by the policy.
   (C)   The Council authorizes the investing officer to make investments
having a stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than
five years after the date of purchase, in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7(a)
and (b). This authority expires on the same date on which the Morgan County
Investment Policy expires, as stated below, and which may not be more than four
years from the date this section is adopted.
   (D)   At the time an investment of public funds of the county is made having
a stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five
years, the total of such investments of the county may not exceed 25% of the
total portfolio of public funds invested by the county, including balances in
transaction accounts.
   (E)   The investing officer may contract with a federally regulated
investment advisor or other institutional money manager to make such
investments.
   (F)   This section shall remain in effect in all respects, unless subsequent
authority invalidates any part or provision herein, or if the Council adopts an
ordinance to repeal, replace, or amend this section, or at such time as this
section expires, which shall be May 3, 2027.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 5-3-2023)
INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY AND PROCEDURES
§ 30.45 ADOPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Board of County Commissioners adopt and implement the acceptable minimum
level of internal control standards and internal control procedures for
internal control systems of political subdivisions as defined by the State
Board of Accounts as follows:
   (A)   The county finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is:
      (1)   To provide a grassroots democratic governmental structure;
      (2)   To provide services as determined through the political process;
      (3)   To promote government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   To promote safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
   (B)   The county finds that its objectives as related to an internal control
system are:
      (1)   Operations objective. The county’s operations objective is to
provide government services in an efficient, accountable, reliable and
transparent manner;
      (2)   Reporting objective. The county’s reporting objective is to report
quality and reliable financial and non-financial information to those within
the county government and to those outside the county government; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives. The county’s compliance objective is to
adhere to laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.46 MINIMUM LEVEL OF INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   The Board of County Commissioners adopt and direct the minimum level of
internal control standards and internal control procedures for internal control
systems that includes the following five standards to promote government
accountability and transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control
Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions guidance document from the Indiana
State Board of Accounts dated September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
   (A)   Control environment;
   (B)   Risk assessment;
   (C)   Control activities;
   (D)   Information and communication; and
   (E)   Monitoring.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.47 PRINCIPLES AND EXPLANATION OF STANDARDS.
   The Board of County Commissioners adopts and directs the following
principles in explanation of the standards laid out in §
30.46 to be followed at all levels of the county government.
   (A)   Control environment.
      (1)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
      (2)   The oversight body oversees the county internal control system.
      (3)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the county’s objectives.
      (4)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and retain
competent individuals.
      (5)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals accountable
for their internal control responsibilities.
   (B)   Risk assessment.
      (1)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the identification
of risks and defines risk tolerances.
      (2)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
      (3)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
      (4)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant changes
that could impact the internal control system.
   (C)   Control activities.
      (1)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
      (2)   Management designs the county information systems and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
      (3)   Management implements control activities through policies.
   (D)   Information and communication.
      (1)   Management uses quality information to achieve the county’s
objectives.
      (2)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the county’s objectives.
      (3)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the county’s objectives.
   (E)   Monitoring.
      (1)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluates the results.
      (2)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on a
timely basis.
   (F)   The Board of County Commissioners adopts the internal control
standards of this section so as to establish an effective internal control
system for the county through its design, implementation and operation.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.48 DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND MODIFICATION OF CURRENT
OPERATIONS.
   The Board of County Commissioners directs that the standards laid out in §
30.47 be used to design, implement, operate and modify current operations,
reporting and compliance objectives that will safeguard the assets of the
county, promote reliability, accountability and transparency of financial and
non-financial information and to assure compliance with laws and regulations
for each office, department and personnel for an effective and reasonable
internal control system of the county.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.49 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Board of County Commissioners authorizes the Internal Control Oversight
Committee with the assistance of the County Auditor to review the current
internal control system of the county and adopt a policy for the future
internal control policy.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.50 BOARD COMPOSITION AND TERMS.
   The Internal Control Oversight Committee shall be appointed to one year
terms by the Board of County Commissioners and shall consist of five members
appointed from the elected and appointed officials of the county.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.51 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS.
   The personnel, whether an elected or appointed official or an employee, of
the county whose duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing,
controlling or otherwise having access to funds or property that belong to the
county, the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall comply with these minimum internal control
standards and procedures and any other policy regarding standards and
procedures determined necessary by the county now and as modified in the
future.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.52 TRAINING.
   (A)   The personnel, whether an elected or appointed official or an
employee, of the county whose duties include receiving, processing, depositing,
disbursing, controlling or otherwise having access to funds or property that
belong to the county, the federal government, state government, political
subdivision, or another governmental entity shall be trained, at least once
during the calendar year of 2016 and annually thereafter, on the minimum
internal control standards and procedures as defined by the Indiana State Board
of Accounts and any other standards and procedures determined necessary by the
county and shall cooperate with the County Auditor so that the County Auditor
can timely certify to the Indiana State Board of Accounts that the training was
received annually by the personnel as provided by law.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners authorizes the county Internal
Control Oversight Committee with the assistance of the County Auditor to
determine the positions and persons who are the personnel referred to in
division (A) and notify such personnel.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.53 INTERNAL CONTROL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
   The Internal Control Oversight Committee will perform all of the internal
control system activities and duties including creating the internal control
systems policy and procedures.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.54 COOPERATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the county are hereby
directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the county.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.55 FAILURE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of the system that may result in discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (B)   An elected or appointed official of the county who fails to abide by
or cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-21-2016)
MATERIALITY POLICY AND PROCESS FOR REPORTING MATERIAL ITEMS
§ 30.65 VARIANCES, LOSSES, SHORTAGES, OR THEFTS.
   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of funds
or property of the county, in the county, shall be promptly reported to the
County Attorney or designee.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.66 REPORTS OF VARIANCE.
   (A)   It will be the policy of the County Attorney or designee to promptly
report to the Indiana State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular
variances, losses, shortages, in excess of $500, except for inadvertent
clerical errors that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss
to the county.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the County Attorney or designee to promptly
report to the Indiana State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular
variances, losses, shortages, of non-cash items in excess of $1,000, estimated
market value, except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or
misplacements that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to
the county, and except for losses from genuine accidents.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.67 FRAUD.
   It will be the policy of the county to promptly report to the Indiana State
Board of Accounts any incidents of fraud in excess of $0.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.68 COMPLIANCE.
   All elected officials, employees and agents of the county are directed to
comply with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
30.07(B)(1) shall be fined $50. A person who violates §
30.07(B)(2) shall be fined $100.
   (C)   Any person violating §
30.21(B) shall be subject to punishment for indirect contempt of court pursuant
to I.C. § 34-47-3 and a fine of $500. Any person violating §
30.21(B) shall also be subject to having the firearm or weapon confiscated by
the proper law enforcement officials.
   (D)   Any person entering or exiting the county courthouse in violation of §
30.22 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $150 for each such violation.
Any violation of §
30.22 may be prosecuted by the County Prosecutor and/or the County Attorney.
   (E)   (1)   A first violation of §
30.08 will result in a verbal warning. Any person so-warned who refuses to
cease smoking or vaping outside of the designated smoking and vaping area will
be considered to be trespassing and will be subject to removal from the
property.
      (2)   Any person who smokes or vapes on the property of the County
Administration Building and Judicial Campus outside of the designated smoking
and vaping area shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not
exceeding $250 per infraction, according to the following schedule:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $50 for a first infraction;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a second infraction; and
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $250 for a third infraction and any
subsequent infractions.
      (3)   Repeated violations of §
30.08 will subject violators to permanent trespass from the property at the
discretion of the Commissioners.
(Ord. 1-1-4, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 1-4-15, passed 12-26-2001; Ord. 1-4-9.1,
passed 4-10-2004; Ord. 1-1-4.1, passed 12-30-2013; Ord. 2024-26, passed 11-18-
2024)
CHAPTER 31: BOARD OF HEALTH
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Immunization
   
31.02   Fees for the County Board of Health
Emergency Health Order Enforcement Action Appeal Procedures
   
31.15   Applicability
   
31.16   Appeal requirements
   
31.17   Procedure upon submission of appeal
   
31.18   Attendance requirements
   
31.19   Hearing procedures
   
31.20   Standard of review
   
31.21   Procedures after hearing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 IMMUNIZATION.
   (A)   The County Health Officer, his or her aides and assistants shall
provide, at public expense, shots and immunizations for Scarlet Fever, Rabies,
Tetanus, Diphtheria and such other similar antitoxin shots, and immunization as
the County Public Health Officer may by law be required to furnish.
   (B)   Along with such antitoxin, immunization and shots mentioned aforesaid,
the County Health Officer, his or her aides, and assistants shall furnish
insulin subject to the same standard of indigency as provided herewith.
   (C)   The criteria for determining indigency shall be the standard upon
which the State Food Stamp Program is based, a copy of such standard is
attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived as Exhibit A and
hereby made a part of this section, such standard indicating the maximum
monthly income whereby a person may qualify for such assistance. Any such
person applying for such immunization, antitoxin, or similar shots enumerated
aforesaid shall be advised of such standard and if they qualify they shall sign
an affidavit stating their eligibility prior to receiving such immunization,
antitoxin, or similar shots. The County Attorney shall furnish to the County
Health Officer forms of affidavits to be filed by persons claiming indigency
for the purposes described herein.
   (D)   The County Health Officer, his or her aides, and assistants shall only
give such shots and immunizations when such is recommended by a physician who
is licensed to practice medicine in the state.
   (E)   In event the requirement for rabies antitoxin results from a dog bite
the cost for such shot shall be billed to the Township Trustee of the township
in which the dog bite occurred.
   (F)   Such requirement for indigency as heretofore set forth shall be
modified at such time and in the same manner as the State Department of Public
Welfare or its successors shall modify the maximum allowable net food stamp
income for non-public assistance households.
(Ord. 4-1-2, passed 7-2-1979)
§ 31.02 FEES FOR THE COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The County Board of Health is empowered to establish and collect fees
in accordance with the following definitions and provisions.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An agent in principal of the Board and Health
Officer as provided for in I.C. 16-20-1-4.
      BOARD. The County Board of Health as provided for in I.C. 16-20-1-4.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The county officer as provided for in I.C. 16-20-1-4.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation or association.
   (C)   The Board of Health, having jurisdiction, may charge a service fee not
in excess of the cost for providing to any person the following services:
      (1)   Home health care as prescribed within the meaning of § 1881(o) of
the Social Security Act for a Home Health Agency; and as authorized by the
State Board of Health, I.C. 16-1-3-28;
      (2)   For any personal health service provided through the County Health
Department as authorized by I.C. 16-20-1-17;
      (3)   For services provided by the County Health Department in providing
a copy of a certificate of birth and death as authorized by I.C. 16-20-1-17;
      (4)   For services provided in the inspection of food establishments as
required by the Food Establishment Ordinance,
Chapter 112 of this code, as authorized by I.C. 16-42-5-0.4 and I.C. 13-18-16-
10; and
      (5)   For supervision and inspection of sanitary installations as
required by statute or ordinance, as authorized by I.C. 13-18-16-10 (repealed).
   (D)   Collection accounting and disposition:
      (1)   Collection of fees. The Board shall collect such fees established
as a part of this section in accord with the schedule designated as Schedule A,
which is attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived, and made
a part hereof;
      (2)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
accounted for in detail for each program service area;
      (3)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
transferred to the County Health Fund. The monies collected in accord with the
provisions of this section shall be used only for the maintenance or future
expansion of the specific program services from which they are derived; and
      (4)   Health service fees. Other county health jurisdictions: fees
collected for health services provided individuals in other county health
jurisdictions and involving payment from county tax revenue shall be collected
in accord with an agreement pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-27, amended by Pub. L. No.
53, Acts of 1974.
   (E)   The fee schedule of the County Board of Health is hereby adopted by
reference, and a copy of the fee schedule is available in the office of the
Clerk for inspection.
(Ord. 1-4-2, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 1-4-18.2, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 1-4-
18.3, passed 11-18-2013)
EMERGENCY HEALTH ORDER ENFORCEMENT ACTION APPEAL PROCEDURES
§ 31.15 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter only applies to an "enforcement action," as defined by
I.C. 16-18-2-114.8, which includes an order, mandate, citation, administrative
notice, business closure, or other action taken by the Morgan County Board of
Health or its local health officer in response to:
      (1)   A declared local public health emergency, as determined by the
local health department or local health officer; or
      (2)   A disaster emergency declared by the Governor in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-12.
   (B)   If a local order issued by the Morgan County Board of Health or its
local health officer, in response to an emergency declared by the Governor,
includes provisions or restrictions that are not included in the Governor's
executive order, or is more stringent than the Governor's executive order, such
local order may not take effect, or remain in effect, unless it is approved by
the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   During a public health emergency declared by the Morgan County Board
of Health or its local health officer, or a disaster emergency declared by the
Governor, all enforcement actions related to such emergencies or disasters must
be authorized by the Board of Commissioners prior to the Board of Health or
local health officer imposing any such enforcement action.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 31.16 APPEAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person or entity to whom an enforcement action is issued may file an
appeal pursuant to I.C. 16-20-5.5.
   (B)   In order for an appeal under this chapter to be considered, it must:
      (1)   Be delivered to the Office of the Morgan County Board of
Commissioners not more than seven days from the date the enforcement action
being appealed was issued;
      (2)   Be in writing;
      (3)   Include the name, address, home telephone, work telephone, and
email address of the appellant;
      (4)   Clearly state the issues that serve as the basis of the appeal;
      (5)   Be executed by the appellant, and so executed under oath and being
subject to the penalties for perjury;
      (6)   Attach or otherwise include a copy of the written enforcement
action that is the subject of the appeal and from which the appellant seeks
relief;
      (7)   Be submitted in a timely manner as described herein and fulfill all
portions as described herein.
   (C)   The appeal is not required to be prepared or organized in any
particular form, so long as it complies with this §
31.16, all other related provisions herein and as proscribed by the Indiana
Code.
   (D)   An aggrieved party may appeal the matter directly to the circuit or
superior court; but in so doing, said party waives their right to request an
appear under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 31.17 PROCEDURE UPON SUBMISSION OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Appeal submitted after deadline. If an appeal is not submitted within
seven days of the enforcement action, it is untimely. The Commissioners may
choose to grant an exception for the untimely submission, particularly given
any justifiable or reasonable cause for delay. However, the Commissioners are
not required to provide an extension of time within which to submit the appeal
and, as such, it may be summarily dismissed.
   (B)   Incomplete appeal. An appeal that lacks one or more of the
requirements contained in §
31.02 may be summarily dismissed.
   (C)   Order to stay enforcement action. Upon receipt of a timely and
properly filed appeal of an enforcement action as described in this subchapter,
the Commissioners may issue an order to stay the enforcement action until the
disposition of the appeal.
   (D)   Determination to conduct hearing. Within 15 days of the submission of
a timely and properly filed appeal of an enforcement action as described in
this subchapter, the Commissioners:
      (1)   May grant the request for a hearing to consider the appeal;
      (2)   May deny the request for a hearing to consider the appeal; or
      (3)   May take no action.
   (E)   (1)   Granting of request for hearing. If the Commissioners determine
to grant the request to conduct a hearing to consider the appeal:
      (2)   A notice of hearing, including the date, time, and location of the
public meeting where the hearing will occur, shall be sent, within 15 days of
the date on which the determination to conduct a hearing was reached, to:
         (a)   The Morgan County Board of Health by email and to its regular
business address. This shall include delivering a copy to a specific officer of
the Board of Health, as the case may warrant.
         (b)   The appellant by email, if provided, as well as to his or her
home address, as provided at the time of submission of the appeal.
   (F)   (1)   Denial of request for hearing. If the Commissioners determine to
deny the request to conduct a hearing to further consider the appeal:
      (2)   A notice of denial of appeal shall be sent, within 15 days of the
date on which the determination to deny the appeal, to:
         (a)   The Morgan County Board of Health by email and to its regular
business address. This shall include delivering a copy to a specific officer of
the Board of Health, as the case may warrant.
         (b)   The appellant by email, if provided, as well as to his or her
home address, as provided at the time of submission of the appeal.
   (G)   No action. If the Commissioners take no action on the appeal of an
enforcement action with 15 days of the date the same is submitted, the appeal
is deemed denied by operation of law. In this event, a notice of denial of
appeal shall be sent in the same manner as prescribed in division (F) above.
   (H)   Consolidation of appeals. If two or more appeals are filed from the
same order or involve common questions of law and fact, the appellant or Morgan
County Board of Health may request consolidation of the appeals. Such request
must be in writing, submitted at least seven days before the scheduled hearing
date, and be sent to all parties to the proceedings. After reviewing the
request, the Commissioners have the discretion to grant or deny the request to
consolidate and shall send notice of its determination to all parties of
concern to the matter.
   (I)   Ex parte communications. In order to avoid actual ex parte
communications, or the appearance of the same, all parties are prohibited from
communicating directly with any member of the Board of Commissioners prior to
the hearing. However, except that a party may file, or submit, additional
information that they request be considered by the Commissioners, so long as
they also provide a copy of that writing to all other parties.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 31.18 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The appellant must be present at a hearing conducted by the Board of
Commissioners or designated hearing officer in which appellant's appeal will be
considered.
   (B)   The Morgan County Board of Health and its local health officer shall
be notified in writing of the hearing date and time pursuant to section, but
the failure of the Health Department, the officer, or their representative to
be present is not a cause for postponement of the hearing unless a continuance
is requested and granted.
   (C)   A continuance requested by the Morgan County Board of Health or its
local health officer does not reduce the period required for a written decision
by the Commissioners.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 31.19 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   A hearing on an appeal of an emergency health order enforcement action shall
be conducted in accordance with the following:
   (A)   The hearing shall be open to the public.
   (B)   The parties are directed to exchange documents, evidence, and
information with another no less than 48 hours prior to the hearing.
   (C)   A subpoena of a witness or for production of evidence may be issued by
the President of the Board of Commissioners, if requested by the appellant or
the Morgan County Board of Health at least three days prior to the scheduled
hearing. The Commissioners may apply for an order from the Morgan Circuit Court
to enforce the subpoena, if necessary.
   (D)   Any person who testifies in the hearing will swear or affirm upon
their oath to the truthfulness of the same.
   (E)   Any party may be represented by legal counsel, who may call witnesses,
cross examine witnesses, present evidence, and make argument(s) on behalf of
his or her client.
   (F)   The appellant, or their designated representative, shall present the
basis for the appeal, call any supporting witnesses, and introduce any other
evidence in support of the appeal.
   (G)   The Morgan County Board of Health or local health officer who issued
the enforcement action being appealed, or their designated representative,
shall have the opportunity to cross-examine the appellant and the appellant's
supporting witnesses.
   (H)   The Morgan County Board of Health or local health officer who issued
the enforcement action being appealed, or their designated representative,
shall have the opportunity to respond to the appellant's presentation by
calling its own supporting witnesses and introducing any other evidence he or
she believes strengthens the case that the enforcement action is proper, and
the appeal should be denied.
   (I)   The appellant, or their designee, shall have the opportunity to cross-
examine the Board of Health or local health officer and any witness they may
call at the conclusion of each witness's presentation.
   (J)   The Board of Commissioners, or their designated hearing officer, shall
have the right to question any participant at any point during the hearing.
   (K)   The hearing shall be informal, and legal rules of evidence shall not
apply; however, irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitive evidence may be
excluded from consideration.
   (L)   The entire Board of Commissioners, a single Commissioner, or a
designee of the Board of Commissioners may act as the hearing officer for the
hearing.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 31.20 STANDARD OF REVIEW.
   An emergency health order enforcement action will be affirmed, unless the
appellant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the hearing officer that:
   (A)   The Morgan County Board of Health or local health officer deprived the
appellant of appellant's property or otherwise substantially prejudiced
appellant's rights and, in doing so, exceeded permissible authority, acted
erroneously, failed to follow proper procedure, or acted arbitrarily or
capriciously.
   (B)   No violation of the emergency health order occurred and thus the
enforcement action was unnecessary or improperly imposed.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 31.21 PROCEDURES AFTER HEARING.
   Within 15 business days following a hearing conducted in accordance with
this chapter, the Board of Commissioners shall:
   (A)   Issue a written decision that must appear in its official written
records; and
   (B)   Include in the written decision the legal and factual basis for the
decision; and
   (C)   Advise the appellant and the Morgan County Board of Health or local
health officer of the right to judicial review; and
   (D)   Maintain all records concerning a request for appeal, including all
evidence or other documents submitted before, during, or after a hearing; all
letters, notices, or other documents sent by the Board of Commissioners; or any
other such item(s) related thereto.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 3-7-2022)
CHAPTER 32: BOUNDARIES AND DISTRICTS
Section
   
32.01   County boundaries
   
32.02   Township boundaries
   
32.03   Election Districts; precinct boundaries
   
32.04   County Council Districts
   
32.05   County Commissioner Districts
   
32.06   Harrison Township Fire District
   
32.07   Monroe Township Fire District
§ 32.01 COUNTY BOUNDARIES.
   Beginning on the township line dividing Townships 10 and 11 North, where the
line dividing Ranges 2 and 3 East crosses the same; thence west to the center
of Range 2 West; thence north to the southeast corner of Section 16, Township
12, North of Range 2 West; thence west to the line dividing Ranges 2 and 3
West; thence north to the point where Mill Creek crosses the line between
Ranges 2 and 3 West; thence following the meanders and channel of said Mill
Creek to the point where the same crosses the line between Sections 21 and 28,
in Township 14 North of Range 2 West; thence east to the line dividing Range 2
and 3 East; thence south to the place of beginning, except where the south line
of Hendricks County crosses Mill Creek in Section 28 Township 14 North Range 2
West and running southwesterly along the meanderings of said Mill Creek which
is the line of Morgan and Putnam Counties to the Congressional Township line
dividing Townships 13 and 14, and where said township line crosses Mill Creek;
thence running due east on said Congressional Township line to the principal
meridian line; thence with said meridian line two miles due north to the
present Hendricks County line; thence due west with said line to the place of
beginning.
(Ord. 7-2-1, passed 2-15-1822)
§ 32.02 TOWNSHIP BOUNDARIES.
   The county shall be divided into the following townships described as
follows. (For original locations of White River at the time of the passage of
this section, shown in earlier photos taken in 1897, see Deed Record L, pages 1
through 69.)
   (A)   Adams Township. Adams Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at a point on the range line marking the west side of Range 1 West
where the same intersects the north line of congressional Township 12 North;
thence north along said range line to the east and west midline of Section 18,
Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence east on said midline to the east line
of said Section; thence north along the east lines of Sections 18, 7 and 6, the
same being in Township 13 North, Range 1 West, to the north line of the county;
thence west along the north line of the county, the same being the north line
of congressional Township 13 North to the west boundary of the county; thence
following the west boundary of the county in a generally southerly direction to
the place where such boundary intersects the north line of congressional
Township 12 North; thence east along said north congressional township line to
the point of beginning.
   (B)   Ashland Township. Ashland Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at a point on said north line of congressional Township 12 North
where it intersects the range line marking the east line of Range 2 West;
thence south on said range line to the northwest corner of Section 7, Township
12 North, Range 1 West; thence east along the north line of said Section 7 and
8 of Township 12 North, Range 1 West, to the northeast corner of said Section
8; thence south along the east line of Sections 8, 17, 20 and 29, Township 12
North, Range 2 West, to the southeast corner of said Section 29; thence west
along the south lines of Sections 29 and 30, Township 12 North, Range 1 West;
thence north along said range line to the southeast corner of Section 25,
Township 12 North, Range 2 West; thence west along the south lines of Sections
25, 26 and 27, Township 12 North, Range 2 West, to the southwest corner of said
Section 27; thence north along the west lines of Sections 27 and 22, Township
12 North, Range 2 West, to the northwest corner of said Section 22; thence west
along the south line of Sections 16 and 17 and 18, Township 12 North, Range 2
West, to the southwest corner of said Section 18, the same being on the Morgan-
Owen County line; thence north along the county line to the northwest corner of
Section 6, Township 12 North, Range 2 West; thence east along the north line of
Sections 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 of Township 12 North, Range 2 West, to the point
of beginning.
   (C)   Baker Township. Baker Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the southwest corner of the county, the same being the southwest
corner of Section 34, Township 11 North, Range 2 West; thence north along the
west line of the county to White River; thence following the thread of White
River in a generally easterly direction to the point where White River
intersects the north-south midline of Section 14, Township 11 North, Range 1
West; thence south along such midline and continuing to the north-south
midlines of Sections 23, 26 and 35, Township 11 North, Range 1 West, to the
south line of the county; thence west along the south line of the county to the
point of beginning.
   (D)   Brown Township. Brown Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the north line of the county at the northwest corner of Section
27, Township 14 North, Range 1 East, thence south along the west line of
Sections 27 and 34 of Township 14 North, Range 1 East to the southwest corner
of such Section 34; thence to the northwest corner of Section 3, Township 13
North, Range 1 East, and following the west line of said Section 3, Section 10,
and Section 15 of Township 13 North, Range 1 East, to the southwest corner of
said Section 15; thence east on the south line of said Section 15, continuing
along the south line of said Section 14, all in Township 13 North, Range 1
East, to a point half way between the north-south midline of Section 14 and the
east line of said Section 14; thence south parallel with the east line of said
Section 23 to the east-west midline of said Section 23; thence east along said
midline of said Section 23, Township 13 North, Range 1 East, and continuing
across the east-west midline of said Section 24, Township and Range aforesaid
to the point where said line intersects the range line between Range 1 East and
Range 2 East; thence north along said range line to the southwest corner of
Section 18, Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence east along the south line
of said Section 18, and continuing along the south line of Section 17, Township
and Range aforesaid to the north-south midline of said Section 17; thence north
along such north-south midline of Section 17 and continuing along the north-
south midlines of Sections 8 and 5, Township and Range aforesaid to the north
line of congressional Township 13; thence east along the north line of said
congressional Township 13 to the point where it intersects the north-south
midline of Section 32, Township 14, Range 2 east; thence north along the north-
south midline of Sections 32 and 29, Township and Range aforesaid to the north
line of the county; thence west along the north line of the county to the point
of beginning.
   (E)   Clay Township. Clay Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the northwest corner of Section 19, Township 13 North, Range 1
East, the same being on the principal meridian; thence south along the
principal meridian to the southwest corner of Section 7, Township 12 North,
Range 1 East; thence east along the south line of Sections 7, 8 and 9, Township
and Range aforesaid, to the point such line intersects White River; thence
easterly with the thread of White River to the point White River intersects the
north line of congressional Township 12 North; thence west along such township
line to the north-south midlines of Section 32, Township 13 North, Range 2
East; thence north on such midline and continuing north on the north-south
midlines of Sections 29 and 20, Township and Range aforesaid, to the north line
of such Section 20; thence west along the north line of such Section 20 and
continuing on the north line of Section 19, Township and Range aforesaid, to
the east line of Range 2 East; thence south on such Range line to the east-west
midline of Section 24, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence west on such
east-west midline of Section 23, Township and Range aforesaid, to a point half
way between the east line of such Section and midpoint thereof; thence north
parallel to the east line of such Section to the north line of such Section;
thence west along the north line of such Section and continuing west on the
north line of Sections 22, 21, 20 and 19, all in the Township and Range
aforesaid to the point of beginning.
   (F)   Green Township. Green Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the east boundary of the county at the point where such boundary
is intersected by the north line of congressional Township 11 North; thence
west along such north line of said congressional township to the point where
said north line of said congressional Township intersects the range line
marking the western edge of Range 2 East; thence north along such range line to
the point where such range line intersects White River; thence northeast
generally along White River and following the thread of such river to the point
where it intersects the north line of congressional Township 12 North; thence
east along such line to the east line of the county; thence south along the
east line of the county to the point of beginning.
   (G)   Gregg Township. Gregg Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the southeast corner of Section 1, Township 12 North, Range 1
West, and the same being on the principal meridian; thence north along such
principal meridian to the northeast corner of Section 24, Township 13 North,
Range 1 West; thence west along the north line of Section 24 and continuing
along the north line of Section 23 to the northwest corner of such Section 23;
thence north along the east line of Section 15, Township 13 North, Range 1
West, to the east-west midline of such Section 15; thence west along such east-
west midline of Section 15 and continuing along the midlines of Sections 16, 17
and 18 to the west line of Section 18, all in Township 13 North, Range 1 West;
thence south along the range line marking the west end of Range 1 West to the
south line of Section 6, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence east along the
south line of such Section 6 and continuing along the south line of Sections 5,
4, 3, 2 and 1, Township and Range aforesaid to the point of beginning.
   (H)   Harrison Township. Harrison Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at a point on the east line of the county, the same being the range
line marking the east line of Range 2 East where such east line is intersected
by the north line of congressional Township 12 North; thence north along said
range line to the point that said range line intersects White River in Section
1, Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence following the thread of White River
in a southwesterly direction to the point said river intersects the south line
of Section 33, Township 13 North, Range 2 East, the same being the north line
of congressional Township 12 North; thence following such Township line east to
the point of beginning.
   (I)   Jackson Township. Jackson Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the southeast corner of the county; thence north along the east
line of Range 2 East, the same being the east line of the county to the point
where such line intersects the north line of congressional Township 11 North;
thence west along such line to the point where such line intersects the line
marking the west side of Range 2 East; thence south along such line to the
south line of the county, the same being the south line of congressional
Township 11 North; thence east along said line to the point of beginning.
   (J)   Jefferson Township. Jefferson Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the northwest corner of Section 9, Township 12 North, Range 1
West; thence south along the west line of Sections 9, 16, 21, 28 and 33,
Township and Range aforesaid to the north line of congressional Township 11
North; thence along the north line of said Township 11 North to the northwest
corner of Section 4, Township 11 North, Range 1 West; thence south along the
west line of said Sections 4, 9, 16 and 21, Township and Range aforesaid, to
the point where such line intersects with White River; thence in a generally
northeasterly direction along the thread of White River to the point where
White River intersects the north line of said Section 16, Township 12 North,
Range 1 East; thence west along the north line of said Sections 16, 17 and 18,
Township and Range aforesaid, to the principal meridian; thence north along
such principal meridian to the northeast corner of Section 12, Township 12
North, Range 1 West; thence west along the north line of Sections 12, 11, 10
and 9, Township and Range aforesaid, to the point of beginning.
   (K)   Madison Township. Madison Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the northeast corner of the county; thence west along the north
line of the county to the north-south midline of Section 29, Township 14 North,
Range 2 East; thence south along such midline of Section 29 and Section 32,
Township and Range aforesaid, to the north line of Township 13 North; thence
west along such north line of such congressional Township 13 north to the
north-south midline of such congressional Township 13 North to the north-south
midline of Section 5, Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence south along such
midline of Sections 5, 8, 17, 20, 19 and 32, Township and Range aforesaid, to
the South line of such Township 32; thence east along the South line of such
Section 32 and Section 33, Township and Range aforesaid, to the point where
such line intersects White River; thence north along the thread of White River
to the point where White River intersects the east line of the county; thence
north along the east line of the county to the point of beginning.
   (L)   Monroe Township. Monroe Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting on the north line of the county at the northeast corner of Section
28, Township 14 North, Range 1 East; thence west along the north line of the
county to the principal meridian; thence south along the line of the county
along the principal meridian to the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 13
North, Range 1 West, and thence continuing west along the north line of the
county to the northwest corner of Section 5, Township 13 North, Range 1 West;
thence south along the west line of Sections 5, 8 and 17, Township and Range
aforesaid, to the east-west midline of Section 17, Township 13 North, Range 1
West; thence east along the midline of such Sections 17, 16 and 15, Township
and Range aforesaid; thence south along the east line of Section 15, Township
and Range aforesaid, to the southeast corner of such Section 15; thence east
along the south line of such Section 15; thence east along the south line of
Section 14 and continuing along the south line of Section 13, Township and
Range aforesaid, to the principal meridian; thence south along such principal
meridian to the south line of Section 18, Township 13 North, Range 1 East;
thence east along the south line of Sections 18, 17 and 16, Township and Range
aforesaid, to the southeast corner of such Section 16; thence north along the
east line of Sections 16, 9 and 4, Township and Range aforesaid, to the
northeast corner of Section 4; thence along the north line of congressional
Township 13 North to the southeast corner of Section 33, Township 14 North,
Range 1 East; thence north along the east lines of Sections 33 and 28, Township
and Range aforesaid, to the point of beginning.
   (M)   Ray Township. Ray Township shall be described as follows:
   Starting at the northwest corner of Section 34, Township 12 North, Range 2
West; thence south along the west line of the county to the point where such
line intersects the thread of White River; thence along the thread of White
River in a northeasterly direction to the point that such river intersects the
east line of Section 20, Township 11 North, Range 1 West; thence north along
the east line of Sections 20, 17, 8 and 5, Township and Range aforesaid, to the
north line of congressional Township 11 North; thence following such township
line to the southeast corner of Section 32, Township 12 North, Range 1 West,
and continuing along the east line of such Section 32 to the northeast corner
of such section; thence following the north line of such Section 32 West and
continuing westward along the north line of Section 31, Township and Range
aforesaid, to the west line of Range 1 West; thence north along such range line
to the northeast corner of Section 36, Township 12 North, Range 2 West, and
continuing thence west along the north lines of Sections 36, 35 and 34,
Township and Range aforesaid to the point of beginning.
   (N)   Washington Township. Washington Township shall be described as
follows:
   Starting on the south line of the county at the southeast corner of Section
36, Township 11 North, Range 1 East, the same being the intersection of the
south line of congressional Township 11 North and the east line of Range 1
East; thence west along the south line of the county to the north-south midline
of Section 35, Township 11 North, Range 1 West; thence north along such midline
of such Section 35 and continuing along the midlines of Sections 26, 23 and 14
to the point where such line intersects White River; thence along the thread of
White River in a northeasterly direction to the point where White River
intersects the east line of Section 12, Township 12 North, Range 1 East, the
same being on the east line of Range 1 East; thence south along such range line
to the south line of the county and the point of beginning.
(Ord. 7-2-2, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 32.03 ELECTION DISTRICTS; PRECINCT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
      (1)   At any point that a roadway, railroad right-of-way, transmission
line, or river or creek is used as a boundary for a precinct, it is intended
that the center line thereof shall be the boundary.
      (2)   At any time a road is used as a precinct boundary, the road name so
used shall be the name approved by the Board of Commissioners and the name as
contained on a map dated September 8, 1987, and published by the Martinsville
Daily Reporter and the Mooresville Times. If it shall be a street name, it
shall be a name accepted by the city or town in which such line runs.
      (3)    In the case of a corporation line which shall apply only to the
City of Martinsville, a reference to a corporation line shall be the
corporation line as it existed at the time of the passage of this section, but
the description of a corporation line shall not override a specific location of
a street or roadway.
      (4)   The boundaries of the townships shall be those legal boundaries
established by the county.
      (5)   Any reference to precinct numbers in the following descriptions
refer to precincts in the same township as described herein.
   (B)   The precinct boundaries for each township of the county should be, and
hereby are, modified as hereafter set forth.
      (1)   Adams Township. Adams Township shall consist of a single precinct
which shall be coextensive with the political boundaries of Adams Township.
      (2)   Ashland Township. Ashland Township shall consist of a single
precinct which shall be coextensive with the political boundaries of Ashland
Township.
      (3)   Baker Township. Baker Township shall consist of a single precinct
which shall be coextensive with the political boundaries of Baker Township.
      (4)   Brown Township. Brown Township shall consist of nine precincts
which shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Brown Precinct 1. Brown Precinct 1 shall be comprised primarily
of parcels that are within a portion of the Town of Mooresville and described
as follows:
      Beginning at the point Greencastle Road intersects Bingham Road, said
point being the northwest corner of Section 35, Township 14 North, Range 1
East; thence south on Bingham Road approximately 460 feet; thence east
approximately 330 feet; thence south approximately 70 feet; thence southwest
approximately 140 feet; thence west approximately 200 feet to Bingham Road,
said point is approximately 925 feet south of the northwest corner of said
Section 35; thence south along Bingham Road to the point Bingham Road is
intersected by said town boundary, said point being the southwest corner of the
northwest quarter of said Section 35; thence east following said town boundary
to the point said town boundary is intersected by White Lick Creek; thence
southeast following White Lick Creek to the point White Lick Creek is
intersected by an oxbow near west line of Section 36, Township 14 North, Range
1 East; thence southwest following the oxbow, as part of creek moves west
through wooded area, to the point White Lick Creek is intersected by north line
of Section 2, Township 13 North, Range 1 East, said point being approximately
400 feet west of the northeast corner of said Section 2; thence west along said
section line approximately 1,500 feet to corner of the political boundary of
the town of Mooresville; thence south following the west line of the town
boundary to the south line of the northeast quarter of said Section 2; thence
west along said town boundary and quarter line to Bethel Road; thence south
along Bethel Road to the point Bethel Road is intersected by said town
boundary; thence east and south along said town boundary to the point it
intersects Crosby Road; thence east along Crosby Road to the point Crosby Road
is intersected by the said town boundary; thence south and west following the
town boundary to the east quarter corner of Section 11, Township 13 North,
Range 1 East; thence along the meanders of the town boundary to the
intersection of Bethel Road; thence south along Bethel Road to the point Bethel
Road intersects Merriman Road; thence west on Merriman Road to the town
boundary; thence south following town boundary to the point town boundary
intersects Monical Branch; thence east along Monical Branch to the point of
deflection of the town boundary; thence south along the town boundary to a
point on the south line of Section 14, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence
east along the south line of said Section 14 to the town boundary, said point
being approximately 350 feet west of the southeast corner of said Section 14;
thence north along the town boundary approximately 550 feet; thence east to Old
State Road 67; thence following the meanderings of the town boundary to a point
where the town boundary intersects Indiana Southern Railroad tracks
approximately 1,200 feet south of the north line of Section 1, Township 13
North, Range 1 East; thence north along the Indiana Southern Railroad to the
north line of Section 1, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence east along
said section line to South Park Drive; thence north along South Park Drive to
the southwest corner of Mooresville Old Town Park; thence east and north around
the park to the South Street intersection; thence east on South Street to the
point South Street intersects High Street; thence northwest on High Street to
the point High Street intersects Indiana Street; thence north on Indiana Street
to the point north line of Mooresville Consolidated School District property
intersects Indiana Street; thence west to the southeast corner of parcel 55-01-
25-305-001.000-005; thence north west and south encompassing said parcel to the
northeast corner of Lot 7 of Northridge Subdivision, and being on the town
boundary; thence following the meanders of the town boundary to the point of
beginning. Excepting therefrom an area starting at the northwest corner of Wm.
O. David Subdivision at Old State Road 67, said point being on said town
boundary; thence east along the north line of said subdivision to the Indiana
Southern Railroad; thence south along the railroad to Country Club Road; thence
west to Old State Road 67; thence along Old State Road 67 to the point of
beginning.
         (b)   Brown Precinct 2. Brown Precinct 2 shall be comprised primarily
of parcels that are within a portion of the Town of Mooresville and described
as follows:
      Beginning at the point Indiana Street intersects Highland Drive; thence
north on Indiana Street to the point Indiana Street is intersected by north
line of Hadley Woodland Drive neighborhood, said point being the southeast
corner of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 25,
Township 14 North, Range 1 East; thence west following the meanders of the town
boundary to a point where said boundary intersects Indiana State Road 267 in
Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 1 East; thence north on Indiana State Road
267 to the point Indiana State Road 267 intersects north line of Pioneer
Country Estates subdivision and being a deflection of the town boundary; thence
following the meanders of town boundary to the point town boundary intersects
Sweetwood Drive; thence west along Sweetwood Drive to the point Sweetwood Drive
intersects Rose Lane; thence southwest along Rose Lane to the point Rose Lane
intersects Crestwood Drive; thence northwest along Crestwood Drive to the point
Crestwood Drive intersects Maple Lane; thence south along Maple Lane to the
point Maple Lane intersects Sunbury Drive; thence west along Sunbury Drive to
the point Sunbury Drive intersects Morningstar Drive; thence north along
Morningstar Drive to the point Morningstar Drive intersects Highland Drive;
thence northwest along Highland Drive to the point of beginning.
         (c)   Brown Precinct 3. Brown Precinct 3 shall be comprised primarily
of parcels that are within a portion of the Town of Mooresville and described
as follows:
      Beginning at the point Indiana Street intersects Highland Drive; thence
south along Indiana Street to the point Indiana Street intersects High Street;
thence east along High Street to the point High Street intersects South Street;
thence west along South Street to the northeast corner of Mooresville Old Town
Park; thence south and west around park to the South Park Drive intersection;
thence south along South Park Drive to the point South Park Drive intersects
the town boundary at the south line of Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 1
East; thence following the meanders of the town boundary including and along
the south line of Rooker Run Sections 4 and 5 to the point of intersection with
Rooker Road; thence north along Rooker Road to the point Rooker Road intersects
Enchanted View Drive; thence southwest along Enchanted View Drive to the point
Enchanted View Drive intersects Peaceful View Drive; thence north along
Peaceful View Drive to the point Peaceful View Drive intersects Killian Drive;
thence east along Killian Drive to the point Killian Drive intersects Rooker
Road; thence north along Rooker Road to the point Rooker Road intersects
Springmill Drive; thence west and north following Springmill Drive to the point
Springmill Drive intersects Indiana State Road 144; thence northwest along
Indiana State Road 144 to the point Indiana State Road 144 intersects the north
lanes of Indiana State Road 67; thence along State Road 67 northeast
approximately 1,055 feet; thence northwest approximately 80 feet to said town
boundary; thence following the meanders of said town boundary to west lane of
Indiana State Road 67 in Section 31, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence
northeast along Indiana State Road 67 to the point Indiana State Road 67
intersects Samuel Moore Parkway; thence southwest along Samuel Moore Parkway to
the point Samuel Moore Parkway is intersected by said town boundary; thence
following the meanders of the town boundary to the point said town boundary
intersects Sweetwood Drive; thence west along Sweetwood Drive to the point
Sweetwood Drive intersects Rose Lane; thence southwest along Rose Lane to the
point Rose Lane intersects Crestwood Drive; thence northwest along Crestwood
Drive to the point Crestwood Drive intersects Maple Lane; thence south along
Maple Lane to the point Maple Lane intersects Sunbury Drive; thence west along
Sunbury Drive to the point Sunbury Drive intersects Morningstar Drive; thence
north along Morningstar Drive to the point Morningstar Drive intersects
Highland Drive; thence northwest along Highland Drive to the point of
beginning. Excepting therefrom an area beginning at the southwest corner of
Marleywood Estates Subdivision, and at the point on said town boundary
approximately 135 feet west of Conduitt Drive and Bridge Street intersection;
thence north along the west line of Marleywood Estates to the northwest corner
of Lot 4 in said subdivision; thence west along the town boundary approximately
360 feet; thence south to Bridge Street; thence east along Bridge Street to the
point of beginning. Also excepting an area beginning at the point said town
boundary is approximately 70 feet north of Carlisle Street at the east right of
way of Indianapolis Road; thence north following said town boundary
approximately 200 feet, thence east to the northwest right-of-way of the
Indiana Southern Railroad; thence southwest along said railroad right-of-way to
the point of beginning. Also excepting an area beginning at the point said town
boundary is approximately 35 feet north of St Clair Street at the east right of
way of Indianapolis Road; thence north along the east right of way of
Indianapolis Road to the south right-of-way of Nice Pak Road; thence east
approximately 320 feet to the west line of parcel 55-01-25-400-001.000-005;
thence south along said parcel line approximately 260 feet to the southwest
corner of said parcel; thence east along the south line of said parcel to the
northwest right of way of the Indiana Southern Railroad; thence southwest along
said right of way approximately 560 feet; thence west to the point of
beginning.
         (d)   Brown Precinct 4. Brown Precinct 4 shall be comprised primarily
of parcels that are within a portion of the Town of Mooresville and described
as follows:
      Beginning at the point Indiana State Road 67 intersects Hadley Road;
thence east along Hadley Road to the point Hadley Road intersects Johnson Road;
thence south along Johnson Road to the point Johnson Road intersects Kingsview
Drive; thence east along Kingsview Drive to the point Kingsview Drive
intersects Stoneview Lane; thence south along Stoneview Lane to the point
Stoneview Lane intersects Oakview Drive; thence east along Oakview Drive to the
point Oakview Drive intersects Circleview Drive; thence north along Circleview
Drive, and the extension thereof, to the south line of parcel 55-02-31-400-
004.000-004 and the town boundary; thence west following the town boundary to
the southeast corner of parcel 55-02-31-400-002.000-004; thence north along the
town boundary to the north right of way of Hadley Road; thence east along
Hadley Road and said town boundary to the southwest corner of parcel 55-02-31-
200-004.000-004; thence north along the town boundary to the northwest corner
of the aforesaid parcel; thence east along the town boundary to the west line
of Section 32, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence south along said section
line to the intersection of Hadley Road; thence east along Hadley Road to the
point Hadley Road intersects Landersdale Road; thence north along Landersdale
Road to the point Landersdale Road is intersected by said town boundary; thence
following the meanders of the town boundary to a point said town boundary
intersects Indiana State Road 67 and Samuel Moore Parkway; thence southwest
along Indiana State Road 67 thereof and the point of beginning.
         (e)   Brown Precinct 5. Brown Precinct 5 shall be comprised primarily
of parcels that are within a portion of the Town of Mooresville and described
as follows:
      Beginning at the point Rooker Road intersects Killian Drive; thence west
along Killian Drive to the point Killian Drive intersects Peaceful View Drive;
thence south along Peaceful View Drive to the point Peaceful View Drive
intersects Enchanted View Drive; thence east along Enchanted View Drive to the
point Enchanted View Drive intersects Rooker Road;    thence south along Rooker
Road to the point Rooker Road intersects the Mooresville town boundary at the
south line of Rooker Trace subdivision; thence east following the town boundary
to the southeast corner of said subdivision; thence along the meanders of said
town boundary to the point said town boundary intersects Hadley Road in Section
32, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence west on Hadley Road to the point
Hadley Road intersects said town boundary as it turns south, approximately
1,000 feet to the northeast corner of parcel 55-02-32-300-004.000-004; thence
following the meanders of the town boundary to a point approximately 590 feet
east and 460 feet south of the east quarter corner of Section 31, Township 14
North, Range 2 East; thence east along the town boundary approximately 120 ft.
to the extension of Circleview Drive; thence south along the alignment of
Circleview Drive to Oakview Drive; thence southwest along Oakview Drive to the
point Oakview Drive intersects Stoneview Lane; thence north along Stoneview
Lane to the point Stoneview Lane intersects Kingsview Drive; thence west along
Kingsview Drive to the point Kingsview Drive intersects Johnson Road; thence
north along Johnson Road to the point Johnson Road intersects Hadley Road;
thence west along Hadley Road to the point Hadley Road intersects Indiana State
Road 67; thence southwest along Indiana State Road 67 to the point Indiana
State Road 67 intersects Indiana State Road 144; thence southeast along Indiana
State Road 144 to the point Indiana State Road 144 intersects Springmill Drive;
thence south and east along Springmill Drive to the point Springmill Drive
intersects Rooker Road at the town boundary; thence north along Rooker Road and
town boundary to State Road 144; thence southeast along State Road 144 and town
boundary to the south line of Section 31, Township 14 North, Range 2 East and
town boundary; thence west along said section line and town boundary to Rooker
Road; thence south along Rooker Road to the point of beginning. Excepting
therefrom Lots 8, 9, 11, 12, and 13 of Howard V. Johnson’s Subdivision as they
are not included in the town boundary.
         (f)   Brown Precinct 6. Brown Precinct 6 shall be described as
follows:
      Beginning at the point Orchard Road intersects Pennington Road in Section
8, Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence south along Pennington Road to the
point Pennington Road intersects Shady Lane; thence west along Shady Lane to
the point Shady Lane intersects Rooker Road; thence north along the meanders of
Rooker Road to the point Rooker Road intersects the point town boundary at the
south line of Rooker Run Subdivision Section 5; thence west following the
meanders of said town boundary to the point said town boundary intersects the
Brown Township on the north line of Section 23, Township 13 North, Range 1
East; thence south and east following said township boundary to the point said
township boundary is intersected by the Brooklyn town boundary; thence
northeast following said town boundary to the point said town boundary is
intersected by the south line of said township; thence east following the south
line of said township to the point the south line of said township is
intersected by the east line of Section 24, Township 13 North, Range 1 East;
thence north along the east line of Section 24, Township 13 North, Range 1 East
to the point the east line of Section 24, Township 13 North, Range 1 East
intersects said township corner, same as near the southwest corner of Section
18, Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence east following the south line of
said township to the point the south line of said township intersects the east
line of said township, said point being the south quarter corner of Section 17,
Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence north along east line of said township
to the point east line of said township intersects Orchard Road; thence west
along Orchard Road to the point of beginning. Together with an area starting at
the northwest corner of Wm. O. David Subdivision at Old State Road 67, said
point being on said town boundary; thence east along the north line of said
subdivision to the Indiana Southern Railroad;   thence south along the railroad
to Country Club Road; thence west to Old State Road 67; thence along Old State
Road 67 to the point of beginning.
         (g)   Brown Precinct 7. Brown Precinct 7 shall be described as
follows:
      Beginning at the point Orchard Road intersects Pennington Road; thence
south along Pennington Road to the point Pennington Road intersects Shady Lane;
thence west along Shady Lane to the point Shady Lane intersects Rooker Road;
thence north along Rooker Road to the point Rooker Road intersects the
Mooresville town boundary; thence east following the Mooresville town boundary
to the point said town boundary intersects Hadley Road in Section 32, Township
14 North, Range 2 East; thence east on Hadley Road to the point Hadley Point
intersects east line of said township; thence south following the east line of
said township to the point the east line of said township intersects Orchard
Road; thence west on Orchard Road thereof and the point of beginning. Together
with an area beginning at the point the Mooresville town boundary intersects
Bridge Street, said point being the north quarter corner of Section 32,
Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence south following the meanders of said
town boundary to the point said town boundary intersects the east line of said
township; thence north following the east line of said township to the point
the east line of said township intersects said town boundary; thence west
following said town boundary to the point of beginning. Together with and area
beginning at the point Allison Road intersects Fox Drive; thence south
following the meanders of the Mooresville town boundary to the point said town
boundary intersects east line of Brown Township at the east line of the
southwest quarter of Section 29, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence north
along the east line of said township to the northeast corner of said township,
said point being the northeast corner of the northwest quarter of said Section
29; thence west along the north line of said township to the point the north
line of said township intersects said town boundary, the same being a point
approximately 140 feet east of County Line Road and Indianapolis Road
intersection; thence continuing along the meanders of said town boundary to the
point said town boundary intersects the north right of way of Nice Pak Road;
thence continuing along the meanders of said town boundary to the point said
town boundary intersects Samuel Moore Parkway; thence northeast along Samuel
Moore Parkway to the point Samuel Moore Parkway intersects Indiana State Road
67; thence following said town boundary to the point of beginning. Together
with an area beginning at a point on Hadley Road approximately 185 feet west of
Karrington Boulevard, the same being where said town boundary intersects Hadley
Road; thence along the town boundary and the east line of parcel 55-02-32-300-
004.000-004 to the southeast corner of said parcel; thence west along the town
boundary to the west line of Section 32, Township 14 North, Range 2 East;
thence south along said section line and town boundary to the southeast corner
of parcel 55-02-31-400-005.000-004; thence west along said town boundary to the
southwest corner of said parcel; thence north along the town boundary to the
south line of parcel 55-02-31-400-004.000-004; thence west following the town
boundary to the southeast corner of parcel 55-02-31-400-002.000-004; thence
north along the town boundary to the north right-of-way of Hadley Road; thence
east along Hadley Road and said town boundary to the southwest corner of parcel
55-02-31 -200-004.000-004; thence north along the town boundary to the
northwest corner of the aforesaid parcel; thence east along the town boundary
to the west line of Section 32, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence south
along said section line to the intersection of Hadley Road; thence east along
Hadley Road to the point of beginning.
   Together with Lots 8, 9, 11, 12, and 13 of Howard V. Johnson’s Subdivision
as they are not included in the town boundary. Together with an area beginning
at the point Indiana State Road 144 intersects Rooker Road, the same being
intersection of said town boundary; thence south following said town boundary
to the north line of Rooker Trace Subdivision, Section 1; thence east along
said subdivision to State Road 144; thence northwest along State Road 144 to
the point of beginning. Together with an area beginning at the point Hadley
Road intersects Indiana State Road 67, the same being intersection of said town
boundary; thence southwest following Indiana State Road 67 approximately 740
feet to the point said town boundary turns northwest; thence northwest
following the meanders of said town boundary to the west corner of parcel 55-
01-36-298-004.000-004; thence continuing along the meanders of the town
boundary to the east line of Section 36, Township 14 North, Range 1 East;
thence north along said section line and to the town boundary northwest corner
of parcel 55-02-31-100-001.000-004; thence east along the north line of said
parcel and town boundary to Indiana State Road 67; thence southwest along State
Road 67 to the point of beginning. Together with an area beginning at the
southwest corner of Marleywood Estates Subdivision, and at the point on said
town boundary approximately 135 feet west of the Conduitt Drive and Bridge
Street intersection; thence north along the west line of Marleywood Estates to
the northwest corner of Lot 4 in said subdivision; thence west along the town
boundary approximately 360 feet; thence south to Bridge Street; thence east
along Bridge Street to the point of beginning. Together with an area beginning
at the point said town boundary is approximately 70 feet north of Carlisle
Street at the east right-of-way of Indianapolis Road; thence north following
said town boundary approximately 200 feet, thence east to the northwest right-
of-way of the Indiana Southern Railroad; thence southwest along said railroad
right-of-way to the point of beginning. Together with an area beginning at the
point said town boundary is approximately 35 feet north of St Clair Street at
the east light of way of Indianapolis Road; thence north along the east right-
of-way of Indianapolis Road to the south right-of-way of Nice Pak Road; thence
east approximately 320 feet to the west line of parcel 55-01-25-400-001.000-
005; thence south along said parcel line approximately 260 feet to the
southwest corner of said parcel; thence east along the south line of said
parcel to the northwest right-of-way of the Indiana Southern Railroad; thence
southwest along said right-of-way approximately 560 feet; thence west to the
point of beginning.
         (h)   Brown Precinct 8. Brown Precinct 8 shall be described as
follows:
      Beginning at the northwest corner of said township, said point being the
northwest corner of Section 27, Township 14 North, Range 1 East; thence south
along the west line of said township to the southwest corner of said township,
said point being the southwest corner of Section 15, Township 13 North, Range 1
East; thence east along the south line of said township to the Mooresville town
boundary; thence north following meanders of said town boundary to the point
the west line of said town boundary is intersected by the north line of said
township at the north line of Section 25, Township 14 North, Range 1 East;
thence west along north line of said township and the point of beginning.
Together with what is known as the Hadley Woodland Drive neighborhood; starting
at the point said town boundary intersects Indiana Street, the same being the
north line of said neighborhood approximately 430 feet south of Raesta Drive;
thence west following town boundary to the northeast corner of parcel 55-01-25-
305-001.000-005; thence south to the southeast corner of said parcel; thence
east to Indiana Street; thence north to the point of beginning.
         (i)   Brown Precinct 9. Brown Precinct 9 shall be within the Town of
Brooklyn in said township and described as follows: Brown Precinct 9 shall be
coextensive with the political boundaries of the Town of Brooklyn lying north
of south line of said township.
      (5)   Clay Township. Clay Township shall consist of three precincts which
shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Clay Precinct 1. Clay Precinct 1 shall be described as follows:
      Starting at the northwest corner of Clay Township, the same being the
northwest corner of Section 19, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence south
along the township line to the southwest corner of said township, the same
being the southwest corner of Section 7, Township 12 North, Range 1 East;
thence east along the south line of said township to the point where the said
township line is intersected by Indiana State Road 67; thence in a
northeasterly direction following along Indiana State Road 67 to the point
Indiana State Road 67 is intersected by Mason Lane; thence north on Mason Lane
to the point Mason Lane is intersected by Robb Hill Road; thence west on Robb
Hill Road to the point Robb Hill Road is intersected by N County Road 40 E;
thence north on N County Road 40 E to the point N County Road 40 E is
intersected by Red Day Road; thence east to the point Red Day Road is
intersected by Goat Hollow Road; thence north on Goat Hollow Road to the point
Goat Hollow Road intersects Blossom Lane; thence east on Blossom Lane to the
point Blossom Lane intersects Crickwood Lane; thence north on Crickwood Lane to
the point Crickwood Lane intersects the north line of said township in Section
22, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence west along the north line of said
township to the northwest corner thereof and the point of beginning.
         (b)   Clay Precinct 2. Clay Precinct 2 shall be described as follows:
      Starting in the southeast corner of Clay Township at the common point of
intersection of Clay, Madison, Harrison and Green Township’s intersecting the
White River on the north line of Section 4, Township 12 North, Range 2 East;
thence in a southwesterly direction following along the meanders of the White
River to the point where said river intersects the south line of said township
at the south line of Section 9, Township 12 North, Range 1 East, thence west
along said township line to a point where the township line is intersected by
Indiana State Road 67; thence in a northeasterly direction following along
Indiana State Road 67 to the point Indiana State Road 67 is intersected by
Mason Lane; thence north on Mason Lane to the point Mason Lane is intersected
by Robb Hill Road; thence west on Robb Hill Road to the point Robb Hill Road is
intersected by N County Road 40 E; thence north on N County Road 40 E to the
point N County Road 40 E is intersected by Red Day Road; thence east to the
point Red Day Road is intersected by Goat Hollow Road; thence north on Goat
Hollow Road to the point Goat Hollow Road intersects Blossom Lane; thence east
on Blossom Lane to the point Blossom Lane intersects Crickwood Lane; thence
north on Crickwood Lane to the point Crickwood Lane intersects the north line
of said township in Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence east
following said township line to the northeast corner of said township at the
northeast corner of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
23, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence south along said township line to
the southeast corner of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of said
Section 23; thence east along said township line to the Brooklyn town boundary
at the approximate intersection with Chisholm Trail in Section 24, Township 13
North, Range 1 East; thence southerly along the western meanders of the town
boundary of Brooklyn until it intersects with the north town limits of the town
of Bethany; thence around and along the limits of Bethany to a point where said
town limits intersect the town boundary of Brooklyn; thence along the eastern
meanders of the town of Brooklyn to the north line of Clay Township at Country
Club Road in Section 24, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence along the Clay
Township lines to the southeast corner thereof and the point of beginning.
         (c)   Clay Precinct 3. Clay Precinct 3 shall be coextensive with the
political boundaries of the Town of Brooklyn that lie south of the north line
of said township and shall be coextensive with the political boundaries of the
Town of Bethany.
      (6)   Green Township. Green Township shall consist of two precincts which
shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Green Precinct 1. Green Precinct 1 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the northeast corner of Green Township, the same being the
northeast corner of Section 1, Township 12 North, Range 2 East; thence west
along the north line of said township to the White River; thence in a
southwesterly direction along the meanders of the White River (the same forming
the northwest boundary of said township) to a point on the west line of Section
7, Township 12 North, Range 2 East; thence southerly along the west line of
said township to the point said west line is intersected by Egbert Road at the
west quarter corner of Section 18, Township 12 North, Range 2 East; thence east
along Egbert Road to the point Egbert Road is intersected by Fire Station Road,
being the northeast corner of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
Section 16, Township 12 North, Range 2 East; thence south on Fire Station Road
to the point Fire Station Road is intersected by North Prong Stotts Creek;
thence east following along the North Prong Stotts Creek to the point where
North Prong Stotts Creek is intersected by Abraham Road; thence south along
Abraham Road to the point Abraham Road is intersected by Bill Smith Road;
thence along Bill Smith Road to the point where Bill Smith Road is intersected
by Indiana State Road 44; thence east on Indiana State Road 44 to the point
Indiana State Road 44 is intersected by the east line of said township on the
east line of Section 25, Township 12 North, Range 2 East; thence north along
the east line of said township to the point of beginning.
         (b)   Green Precinct 2. Green Precinct 2 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the southeast corner of Green Township, the same being the
southeast corner of Section 36, Township 12 North, Range 2 East; thence north
along the east line of said Township to Indiana State Road 44; thence west on
Indiana State Road 44 to the point where Indiana State Road 44 is intersected
by Bill Smith Road; thence north on Bill Smith Road to the point Bill Smith
Road is intersected by Abraham Road; thence north on Abraham Road to the point
Abraham Road is intersected by North Prong Stotts Creek; thence west following
North Prong Stotts Creek to the point North Prong Stotts Creek is intersected
by Fire Station Road; thence north on Fire Station Road to the point Fire
Station Road is intersected by Egbert Road; thence west on Egbert Road to the
point Egbert Road is intersected by west line of said township; then south
along the west line of said township to the southwest corner of said township,
the same being the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 12 North, Range 2
East; thence east along the south line of said township to the point of
beginning.
      (7)   Gregg Township. Gregg Township shall consist of two precincts which
shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Gregg Precinct 1. Gregg Precinct 1 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the northwest corner of Gregg Township, west quarter corner
of Section 18, Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence south along the west
line of said township to the southwest corner of said township, the same being
the southwest corner of Section 6, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence east
along the south line of Gregg Township to the point said south line is
intersected by a high voltage transmission electric line approximately 425 feet
east of the southwest corner of Section 4, Township 12 North, Range 1 West;
thence along said transmission line in a northeasterly direction to the point
such transmission line intersects Berean Road; thence southeast along Berean
Road to the point Berean Road becomes Upper Patton Park Road; thence southeast
along Upper Patton Park Road to the point Upper Patton Park Road is intersected
by an intermittent stream, approximately 1150 feet north and 1380 feet east of
the southwest corner of Section 3, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence
northeast along the intermittent stream to the point the intermittent stream is
intersected by Blazing Star Road, approximately 175 feet southeast of the
intersection of Blazing Star Road and Blazing Star Lane; thence northerly along
Blazing Star Road to the point Blazing Star Road is intersected by Indiana
State Road 142; thence east along Indiana State Road 142 to the point Indiana
State Road 142 is intersected by Kivett Road; thence north on Kivett Road to
the point Kivett Road is intersected by Briarhopper Road; thence north on
Briarhopper Road to the point Briarhopper Road is intersected by Lambs Creek;
thence northeasterly along Lambs Creek to Whippoorwill Lake South Drive; thence
north on Whippoorwill Lake South Drive to the point Whippoorwill Lake South
Drive intersects with Briarhopper Road; thence north on Briarhopper Road to the
point Briarhopper Road is intersected by north line of said township in Section
23, Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence along said township boundaries to
the point of beginning.
         (b)   Gregg Precinct 2. Gregg Precinct 2 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the point where a high voltage electric transmission line
intersects the south line of Gregg Township approximately 425 feet east of the
southwest corner of Section 4, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence along
said transmission line in a northeasterly direction to the point such
transmission line intersects Berean Road; thence southeast along Berean Road to
the point Berean Road becomes Upper Patton Park Road; thence southeast along
Upper Patton Park Road to the point Upper Patton Park Road is intersected by an
intermittent stream, approximately 1150 feet north and 1380 feet east of the
southwest corner of Section 3, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence
northeast along the intermittent stream to the point the intermittent stream is
intersected by Blazing Star Road, approximately 175 feet southeast of the
intersection of Blazing Star Road and Blazing Star Lane; thence northerly along
Blazing Star Road to the point Blazing Star Road is intersected by Indiana
State Road 142; thence east along Indiana State Road 142 to the point Indiana
State Road 142 is intersected by Kivett Road; thence north on Kivett Road to
the point Kivett Road is intersected by Briarhopper Road; thence north on
Briarhopper Road to the point Briarhopper Road is intersected by Lambs Creek;
thence northeasterly along Lambs Creek to Whippoorwill Lake South Drive; thence
north on Whippoorwill Lake South Drive to the point Whippoorwill Lake South
Drive intersects with Briarhopper Road; thence north on Briarhopper Road to the
point Briarhopper Road is intersected by the north line of said township in
Section 23, Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence east along the north line
of said township to the northeast corner of said township, the same being the
northeast corner of Section 24, Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence south
along the east line of said township to the southeast corner of said township,
the same being the southeast corner of Section 1, Township 12 North, Range 1
West; thence west following the south line of said township to the point of
beginning.
      (8)   Harrison Township. Harrison Township shall consist of a single
precinct which shall be coextensive with the political boundaries of Harrison
Township.
      (9)   Jackson Township. Jackson Township shall consist of three precincts
which shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Jackson Precinct 1. Jackson Precinct 1 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the northwest corner of Jackson Township, said point being
the northwest corner of Section 6, Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence
south along the west line of said township to the southwest corner of Jackson
Township, said point being the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 11
North, Range 2 East; thence east along the south line of said township to the
point the south line of said township is intersected with Mt. Zion Road; thence
northwest along Mt. Zion Road to the point Mt. Zion Road intersects
Mahalasville Road; thence northeast along Mahalasville Road to the point
Mahalasville Road intersects Whetstine Road; thence north on Whetstine Road to
the point Whetstine Road intersects Railroad Road; thence west on Railroad Road
to the point Railroad Road is intersected by Oliver Creek; thence north along
Oliver Creek to the point Oliver Creek is intersected by Indiana State Road
252; thence southeast on Indiana State Road 252 to the point Indiana State Road
252 intersects Whetstine Road, said point being on the east line of Section 21,
Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence north along the east line of said
section, and the extension thereof, to the northeast corner of the southeast
quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 11 North, Range 2
East; thence west to the northwest corner of the southeast quarter of the
southeast quarter of said Section 16; thence north to the northeast corner of
the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of said section; thence west to
the southwest corner of the northeast quarter of said section; thence north to
the northwest corner of the northeast quarter of said section; thence north to
the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
Section 9, Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence east to the northeast corner
of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 9; thence
north approximately 415 feet; thence east approximately 1,310 feet to the point
that intersects the west line of Section 10, Township 11 North, Range 2 East;
thence continue east approximately 325 feet; thence north approximately 450
feet; thence east approximately 990 feet to the point that is intersected by
Conservation Club Road in Section 10, Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence
north along Conservation Club Road to the point Conservation Club Road
intersects Old Morgantown Road; thence north and west along Old Morgantown Road
to the point Old Morgantown Road intersects Cope Road; thence north on Cope
Road to the point Cope Road is intersected by north line of said township;
thence west following the north line of said township to the point of
beginning.
         (b)   Jackson Precinct 2. Jackson Precinct 2 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the southeast corner of Jackson Township, the same being the
southeast corner of Section 36, Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence west
following the south line of said township to the point the south line of said
township is intersected by Mt. Zion Road; thence northwest along Mt. Zion Road
to the point Mt. Zion Road intersects Mahalasville Road; thence northeast along
Mahalasville Road to the point Mahalasville Road intersects Whetstine Road;
thence north on Whetstine Road to the point Whetstine Road intersects Railroad
Road; thence west on Railroad Road to the point Railroad Road is intersected by
Oliver Creek; thence north along Oliver Creek to the point Oliver Creek is
intersected by Indiana State Road 252; thence southeast on Indiana State Road
252 to the point Indiana State Road 252 intersects Whetstine Road, said point
being on the east line of Section 21, Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence
north along the east line of said section, and the extension thereof, to the
northeast corner of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section
16, Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence west to the northwest corner of the
southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 16; thence north to
the northeast corner of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of said
section; thence west to the southwest corner of the northeast quarter of said
section; thence north to the northwest corner of the northeast quarter of said
section; thence north to the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of the
southeast quarter of Section 9, Township 11 North, Range 2 East; thence east to
the northeast corner of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of said
Section 9; thence north approximately 415 feet; thence east approximately 1,310
feet to the point that intersects the west line of Section 10, Township 11
North, Range 2 East; thence continue east approximately 325 feet; thence north
approximately 450 feet; thence east approximately 990 feet to the point that is
intersected by Conservation Club Road in Section 10, Township 11 North, Range 2
East; thence north along Conservation Club Road to the point Conservation Club
Road intersects Old Morgantown Road; thence north and west along Old Morgantown
Road to the point Old Morgantown Road intersects Cope Road; thence north on
Cope Road to the point Cope Road is intersected by north line of said township;
thence east following the north line of said township to the northeast corner
of said township, said point being the northeast corner of Section 1, Township
North, Range 2 East; thence south following the east line of said township to
the point east line of said township is intersected by the northern political
boundary of the town of Morgantown; thence west following the Morgantown
political boundary to the point Morgantown town boundary is intersected by east
line of said township, the same being the east line of said township
intersected by Washington Street; thence south following the east line of said
township thereof and the point of beginning.
         (c)   Jackson Precinct 3. Jackson Precinct 3 shall be coextensive with
the political boundaries of the Town of Morgantown.
      (10)   Jefferson Township. Jefferson Township shall consist of two
precincts which shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Jefferson Precinct 1. Jefferson Precinct 1 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the northwest corner of Jefferson Township, the same being
the northwest corner of Section 9, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence
south following the west line of said township to the southwest corner of said
township, the same being the southwest corner of Section 16, Township 11 North,
Range 1 West; thence east following the south line of said township to the
point the south line of said township is intersected by the White River; thence
northeast along the meanders of the White River to the confluence of said river
and Lamb Creek; thence north following Lamb Creek to the point Lamb Creek is
intersected by Old State Road 67; thence northeast along Old State Road 67 to
the point Old State Road 67 intersects Bain Road; thence north along Bain Road
to the point Bain Road intersects Goose Creek Road; thence northeast on Goose
Creek Road to the point Goose Creek Road is intersected by Goose Creek, said
point is located in the northwest quarter of Section 25, Township 12 North,
Range 1 West; thence northeast along Goose Creek to the point Goose Creek is
intersected by Goose Creek Road, said point is located in the southeast quarter
of Section 24, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence north along Goose Creek
Road to the point it intersects Ballinger Road; thence west on Ballinger Road
to the point it is intersected by Goose Creek; thence north along Goose Creek
to the point Goose Creek is intersected by Grizzly Lane; thence northwest on
Grizzly Lane and the extension thereof to Falcon Crest Drive; thence along
Falcon Crest Drive to the point Falcon Crest Drive intersects Lake Terrace
Drive; thence southwest along Lake Terrace Drive to the point Lake Terrace
Drive intersects Pitkin Road; thence north on Pitkin Road to the point Pitkin
Road intersects Middle Patton Park Road; thence east on Middle Patton Park Road
to the point Middle Patton Park Road intersects Wilbur Road; thence northwest
on Wilbur Road to the point Wilbur Road is intersected by the north line of
said township, said point being the northeast corner for Section 11, Township
12 North, Range 1 West; thence west following the north line of said township
thereof and the point of beginning.
         (b)   Jefferson Precinct 2. Jefferson Precinct 2 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the northwest corner of Section 12, Township 12 North, Range
1 West, said point being the intersection of north line of said township and
Wilbur Road; thence east following the north line of said township to the
northeast corner of said township, the same as northeast corner of Section 12,
Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence south along east line of said township
to the southwest corner of Section 7, Township 12 North, Range 1 East; then
east along north line of said township to the northeast corner of said
township, said point being the intersection of north line of said township and
White River on the north line of Section 16, Township 12 North, Range 1 East;
thence southwest following the meanders of the White River, to the point east
line of said township is intersected by Lambs Creek, thence north following
Lamb Creek to the point Lamb Creek is intersected by Old State Road 67; thence
northeast along Old State Road 67 to the point Old State Road 67 intersects
Bain Road; thence north along Bain Road to the point Bain Road intersects Goose
Creek Road; thence northeast on Goose Creek Road to the point Goose Creek Road
is intersected by Goose Creek, said point is located in the northwest quarter
of Section 25, Township 12 North, Range 1 West; thence northeast along Goose
Creek to the point Goose Creek is intersected by Goose Creek Road, said point
is located in the southeast quarter of Section 24, Township 12 North, Range 1
West; thence north along Goose Creek Road to the point it intersects Ballinger
Road; thence west on Ballinger Road to the point it is intersected by Goose
Creek; thence north along Goose Creek to the point Goose Creek is intersected
by Grizzly Lane; thence northwest on Grizzly Lane and the extension thereof to
Falcon Crest Drive; thence along Falcon Crest Drive to the point Falcon Crest
Drive intersects Lake Terrace Drive; thence southwest along Lake Terrace Drive
to the point Lake Terrace Drive intersects Pitkin Road; thence north on Pitkin
Road to the point Pitkin Road intersects Middle Patton Park Road; thence east
on Middle Patton Park Road to the point Middle Patton Park Road intersects
Wilbur Road; thence northwest on Wilbur Road to the point Wilbur Road is
intersected by north line of said township, said point being the northwest
corner of Section 12, Township 12 North, Range 1 West and the point of
beginning.
      (11)   Madison Township. Madison Township shall consist of six precincts
which shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Madison Precinct 1. Madison Precinct 1 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the southwest corner of Madison Township, said point being
the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of Section 32, Township 13 North,
Range 2 East; thence north along the west line of said township to the point
the west line of said township is intersected by Neitzel Road; thence east
along Neitzel Road to the point Neitzel Road intersects Kitchen Road; thence
south along Kitchen Road to the point Kitchen Road intersects Centenary Road;
thence east and northeast along Centenary Road to the point Centenary Road is
intersected by an unnamed lane that is approximately 415 feet northeast of the
Centenary Road and Centenary Lane intersection; thence east along the unnamed
lane approximately 515 feet to the point the unnamed lane is intersected by an
unnamed tributary ditch; thence east along the unnamed tributary ditch to the
point the unnamed tributary ditch is intersected by the White River, said point
being the southeast line of Madison Township; thence southwest along the
meanders of the White River, and the southeast line of said township, to the
intersection of the White River and the south line of Madison Township on the
south line of Section 33, Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence west along
said south township line to the southwest corner of said township and being the
point of beginning.
         (b)   Madison Precinct 2. Madison Precinct 2 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the point Spring Lake Road intersects Kitchen Road, said
point being the north quarter corner of Section 9, Township 13 North, Range 2
East; thence south along Kitchen Road to the point Kitchen Road intersects
Centenary Road; thence east and northeast along Centenary Road to the point
Centenary Road is intersected by an unnamed lane that is approximately 415 feet
northeast of the Centenary Road and Centenary Lane intersection; thence east
along the unnamed lane approximately 515 feet to the point the unnamed lane is
intersected by an unnamed tributary ditch; thence east along the unnamed
tributary ditch to the point the unnamed tributary ditch is intersected by the
White River, said point being the southeast line of Madison Township; thence
northeast along the southeast line of said township to the point the southeast
line of said township is intersected by Indiana State Road 144; thence east
along Indiana State Road 144 to the point Indiana State Road 144 intersects
Smokey Row Road; thence north along Smokey Row Road to the point Smokey Row
Road intersects County Road 1150 North; thence west along County Road 1150
North to the point County Road 1150 North intersects Mann Road; thence
southwest on Mann Road to the point Mann Road intersects Spring Lake Road;
thence west on Spring Lake Road to the north quarter corner of Section 9,
Township 13 North, Range 2 East, said point being the point of beginning.
         (c)   Madison Precinct 3. Madison Precinct 3 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the north quarter corner of Section 32, Township 14 North,
Range 2 East, said point being the point Landersdale Road intersects Bridge
Street along the west line of Madison Township; thence south along the west
line of said township to the point the west line of said township is
intersected by Neitzel Road; thence east along Neitzel Road to the point
Neitzel Road intersects Kitchen Road; thence south along Kitchen Road to the
point Kitchen Road intersects Spring Lake Road; thence east along Spring Lake
Road to the point Spring Lake Road intersects Paddock Road South; thence north
on Paddock Road South to the point Paddock Road South is intersected by Sinking
Creek; thence northwest along Sinking Creek to the point Sinking Creek flows
into the small pond south of Wildwood Lake at the south line of the northeast
quarter of Section 3, Township 13 North, Range 2 East; thence west to the
southeast corner of the northeast quarter of said Section 3; thence north
approximately 1,140 feet along the Wildwood Shores Section 5 Replat west
boundary line; thence west approximately 1,380 feet along the south boundary
line for Walters First Sub: thence north approximately 1,075 feet along the
west boundary line for Walters First Sub to the point the west boundary line
for Walters First Sub is intersected by transmission line; thence northeast
along the transmission line to the point the transmission line is intersected
by Hadley Road; thence east along Hadley Road to the point Hadley Road
intersects Paddock Road;    thence north along Paddock Road to the point
Paddock Road intersects Landersdale Road, said point being the northeast corner
of Section 34, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence west along Landersdale
Road to the point Landersdale Road intersects Slideoff Road; thence south along
Slideoff Road approximately 1,405 feet; thence west approximately 1,510 feet to
the east line of Lakeview Estates subdivision boundary; thence north
approximately 190 feet along the Lakeview Estates subdivision boundary; thence
west approximately 1,290 feet along the Lakeview Estates subdivision boundary
to Collett Way; thence north along Collett Way to the point Collett Way
intersects Landersdale Road, said point being the northeast corner of Section
32, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence west on Landersdale Road to the
point of beginning.
         (d)   Madison Precinct 4. Madison Precinct 4 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting on County Line Road in the northwest corner of said township,
said point being the the north quarter corner of Section 29, Township 14 North,
Range 2 East; thence south following west line of said township to the point
west line of said township intersects Landersdale Road; thence east along
Landersdale Road to the point Landersdale Road intersects Collett Way; thence
south along Collett Way to the point Collet Way intersects the Precinct 3
boundary; thence east approximately 1,290 feet along the Lakeview Estates
subdivision boundary to the Lakeview Estates subdivision boundary corner;
thence south approximately 190 feet along the Lakeview Estates subdivision
boundary to the Lakeview Estates subdivision boundary corner; thence east
approximately 1,510 feet to east line of the Lakeview Estates subdivision
boundary to the point the Lakeview Estates subdivision boundary intersects
Slideoff Road; thence north along Slideoff Road to the point Slideoff Road
intersects Landersdale Road; thence east along Landersdale Road to the point
Landersdale Road intersects Albion Drive; thence north along Albion Drive to
the point Albion Drive intersects Clarks Hill Court; thence east along Clarks
Hill Court to the point Clarks Hill Court intersects Badger Grove Drive; thence
north along Badger Grove Drive to the point Badger Grove Drive intersects Etna
Green Drive; thence north along Etna Green Drive to the point Etna Green Drive
intersects Ayrshire Circle; thence west and north along Ayrshire Circle to the
point Ayrshire Circle intersects Heartland Boulevard; thence north along
Heartland Boulevard to the point Heartland Boulevard intersects County Line
Road, and the north line of said township; thence west on County Line Road to
the point of beginning.
         (e)   Madison Precinct 5. Madison Precinct 5 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the point Landersdale Road intersects Albion Drive on the
south line of Section 28, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; thence north along
Albion Drive to the point Albion Drive intersects Clarks Hill Court; thence
east along Clarks Hill Court to the point Clarks Hill Court intersects Badger
Grove Drive; thence north along Badger Grove Drive to the point Badger Grove
Drive intersects Etna Green Drive; thence north along Etna Green Drive to the
point Etna Green Drive intersects Ayrshire Circle; thence west and north along
Ayrshire Circle to the point Ayrshire Circle intersects Heartland Boulevard;
thence north along Heartland Boulevard to the point Heartland Boulevard
intersects County Line Road, and the north line of said township; thence east
along County Line Road to the point County Line Road intersects Paddock Road,
said point being the northeast corner of Section 27, Township 14 North, Range 2
East; thence south along Paddock Road to the point Paddock Road intersects
Landersdale Road at the southeast corner of said Section 27; thence west along
Landersdale Road to the point of beginning.
         (f)   Madison Precinct 6. Madison Precinct 6 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the point County Line Road intersects Paddock Road, said
corner being the northwest corner of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 2
East; thence south along Paddock Road to the point Paddock Road intersects
Hadley Road; thence west along Hadley Road to the point Hadley Road is
intersected by a transmission line; thence southwest along the transmission
line and following the east line of Precinct 3 along Walters First Sub and
Wildwood Shores Section 5 Replat to the intersection of a small pond and
Sinking Creek; thence along Sinking Creek to a point where Sinking Creek is
intersected by Paddock Road; thence south along Paddock Road to the point
Paddock Road intersects Spring Lake Road; thence east along Spring Lake Road to
the point Spring Lake Road intersects Mann Road; thence northeast along Mann
Road to the point Mann Road intersects County Road 1150 N; thence east along
County Road 1150 N to the point County Road 1150 N intersects Smokey Row Road;
thence south along Smokey Row Road to the point Smokey Row Road intersects
Indiana State Road 144; thence east on Indiana State Road 144 to the point
Indiana State Road 144 is intersected by White River, the same being the east
line of said township; thence northerly along the meanders of the White River
to the east line of Morgan County; thence north along the county line to the
northeast corner of said township, the same being the northeast corner of
Section 25, Township 14 North, Range 2 East; then west along north line of said
township thereof and the point of beginning.
      (12)   Monroe Township. Monroe Township shall consist of three precincts
which shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Monroe Precinct 1. Monroe Precinct 1 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at the northwest corner of said township; the same being the
northwest corner of Section 5, Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence south
along said township line to the southwest corner of said township, said point
being the west quarter corner of Section 17, Township 13 North, Range 1 West;
thence east along the south line of said township to the west line of Section
14, Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence south along the township line, the
same being the west line of Section 14, Township 13 North, Range 1 West to the
southwest corner of said Section 14; thence east along the south line of said
township to the southeast corner of said township, said point being the
southeast corner of Section 16, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence north
along east line of said township to the point east line of said township is
intersected by Indiana State Road 42; thence west on Indiana State Road 42 to
the point Indiana State Road 42 is intersected by the Monrovia town boundary,
thence along and following the town boundary until it intersects Indiana State
Road 39 on the north side of town; thence north on Indiana State Road 39 to the
point Indiana State Road 39 intersects the north line of said township; thence
west along north line of said township thereof and the point of beginning.
         (b)   Monroe Precinct 2. Monroe Precinct 2 shall be coextensive with
the political boundaries of the Town of Monrovia.
         (c)   Monroe Precinct 3. Monroe Precinct 3 shall be described as
follows:
      Starting at a point on the north line of said township where said line
intersects Indiana State Road 39; thence south on Indiana State Road 39 to the
point Indiana State Road 39 is intersected by the Monrovia town boundary;
thence following the meanders of the town boundary to the point where the town
boundary is intersected by Indiana State Road 42, said point being on the west
line of Section 7, Township 13 North, Section 1 East; thence northeast along
Indiana State Road 42 to the point Indiana State Road 42 is intersected by the
east line of said township, said point being the east quarter corner of Section
4, Township 13 North, Range 1 East; thence north following the east line of
said township to the northeast corner of said township, the same being the
northeast corner of Section 28, Township 14 North, Range 1 East; thence west
along the north line of said township to the northwest corner of said township,
the same being the northwest corner of Section 30, Township 14 North, Range 1
East; thence south along said township line to the northeast corner of Section
1, Township 13 North, Range 1 West; thence west along said township boundary to
the point of beginning.
      (13)   Ray Township. Ray Township shall consist of two precincts which
shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Ray Precinct 1. Ray Precinct 1 shall be coextensive with the
political boundaries of the Town of Paragon.
         (b)   Ray Precinct 2. Ray Precinct 2 shall be coextensive with the
political boundaries of Ray Township, excluding the Town of Paragon.
      (14)   Washington Township. Washington Township shall consist of ten
precincts which shall be described as follows:
         (a)   Washington Precinct 1. Washington Precinct 1 shall be within the
City of Martinsville and described as follows:
      Beginning at the point Poston Road intersects Cherry Street, the same
point being on the Martinsville city boundary; thence starting west and
following the meanders of the city boundary to the point said city boundary is
intersected by Poston Road; thence east along Poston Road to the point Poston
Road intersects Ohio Street; thence south along Ohio Street to the point Ohio
Street becomes Mahalasville Road; thence south along Mahalasville Road to the
point Mahalasville Road is intersected by said city boundary, the same point
being approximately 1,750 feet south of the Artesian Avenue and Mahalasville
Road intersection; thence continuing south along the city boundary to the south
line of Section 10, Township 11 North, Range 1 East; thence west following the
meanders of the city boundary to the point said city boundary is intersected by
Indiana State Road 39 Bypass; thence southeast along Indiana State Road 39
Bypass to the point Indiana State Road 39 Bypass intersects Mitchell Avenue;
thence east along Mitchell Avenue to the point Mitchell Avenue intersects
Cherry Street; thence south along Cherry Street to the point it intersects York
Street; thence continue south along the extension of Cherry Street
approximately 425 feet; thence southeast approximately 50 feet to Morton
Avenue; thence southwest along Morton Avenue to the point Morton Avenue
intersects Cherry Sheet; thence southeast along Cherry Street to the point of
beginning.
         (b)   Washington Precinct 2. Washington Precinct 2 shall be within the
City of Martinsville and described as follows:
      Beginning at the point Edgewood Avenue intersects Morton Avenue; thence
east along Morton Avenue to the point Morton Avenue intersects Main Street;
thence along Main Street to the point it becomes Blue Bluff Road; thence
continuing north along Blue Bluff Road to the northern political boundary of
the city of Martinsville; thence following the meanders of the city boundary to
the point said city boundary is intersected by Indiana State Road 39 Bypass;
thence southeast along Indiana State Road 39 Bypass to the point Indiana State
Road 39 Bypass intersects Mitchell Avenue; thence east along Mitchell Avenue to
the point Mitchell Avenue intersects Cherry Street; thence south along Cherry
Street to the point it intersects York Street; thence continue south along the
extension of Cherry Street approximately 425 feet; thence southeast
approximately 50 feet to Morton Avenue; thence northeast along Morton Ave to
the point of beginning.
         (c)   Washington Precinct 3. Washington Precinct 3 shall be comprised
primarily of parcels that are within a portion of the City of Martinsville and
described as follows:
      Beginning at the point Edgewood Avenue intersects Morton Avenue; thence
southwest along Morton Avenue to the point Morton Avenue intersects Cherry
Street; thence southeast along Cherry Street to the point Cherry Street
intersects Poston Road; thence east along Poston Road to the point Poston Road
intersects Ohio Street; thence north along Ohio Street to the point Ohio Street
intersects South Street; thence east along South Street to the point South
Street intersects Home Avenue; thence north along Home Avenue to the point Home
Avenue intersects Columbus Street; thence west along Columbus Street to the
point Columbus Street intersects Ohio Street; thence south along Ohio Street to
the point Ohio Street intersects Garfield Avenue; thence west along Garfield
Avenue to the point Garfield Avenue intersects Main Street; thence south along
Main Street to the point Main Street intersects Morton Avenue; thence west
along Morton Avenue to the point of beginning.
         (d)   Washington Precinct 4. Washington Precinct 4 shall be within the
City of Martinsville and described as follows:
      Beginning at the point Garfield Avenue intersects Main Street; thence
north along Main Street to the point Main Street intersects Harrison Street;
thence east along Harrison Street to the point Harrison Street intersects 2nd
Street; thence south along 2nd Street to the point 2nd Street intersects
Columbus Street; thence west along Columbus Street to the point Columbus Street
intersects Ohio Street; thence south along Ohio Street to the point Ohio Street
intersects Garfield Avenue; thence west along Garfield Avenue to the point of
beginning.
         (e)   Washington Precinct 5. Washington Precinct 5 shall be comprised
primarily of parcels that are within a portion of the City of Martinsville and
described as follows:
      Beginning at the point Home Avenue intersects Columbus Street; thence
east along Columbus Street to the point Columbus Street intersects 2nd Street;
thence north along 2nd Street to the point 2nd Street intersects Harrison
Street; thence east along Harrison Street to the point Harrison Street
intersects Morgan Street; thence northeast along Morgan Street to the point
Morgan Street intersects Reuben Drive; thence east along Reuben Drive to a
point approximately 50 feet east of Kristi Drive; thence south to Indiana State
Road 37; thence southwest along Indiana State Road 37 to the point Indiana
State Road 37 intersects Indiana State Road 252; thence southeast along Indiana
State Road 252 to the point Indiana State Road 252 intersects said city
boundary; thence southwest following the meanders of said city boundary to the
point said city boundary is intersected by Mahalasville Road; thence south
along Mahalasville Road approximately 370 feet; thence west approximately 40
feet; thence north along the west side of Mahalasville Road to the point
Mahalasville Road intersects Artesian Avenue; thence west along Mahalasville
Road to the point Mahalasville Road becomes Ohio Street; thence north along
Ohio Street to the point Ohio Street intersects South Street; thence east along
South Street to the point South Street intersects Home Avenue; thence north on
Home Avenue to the point of beginning.
         (f)   Washington Precinct 6. Washington Precinct 6 shall be within the
City of Martinsville and described as follows:
      Beginning at the point Main Street intersects Harrison Street; thence
north along Main Street and Blue Bluff Road to the point Main Street is
intersected by the Martinsville city boundary; thence east and following the
meanders of said city boundary to the point said city boundary is intersected
by Grassyfork Lane; thence south along Grassyfork Lane to the point Grassyfork
Lane intersects Morgan Street; thence southwest along Morgan Street to the
point Morgan Street intersects Harrison Street; thence north and west along
Harrison Street to the point of beginning. Excepting therefrom parcel 55-09-33-
200-004.000-020 as it is not included in the political boundary of the City of
Martinsville, said parcel lying immediately north of Lincoln Heights
Subdivision. Also excepting parcel 55-09-33-200-011.000-020 as it is not
included in the political boundary of the City of Martinsville, said parcel
lying immediately north of Kivett Parkside Subdivision Section 3.
         (g)   Washington Precinct 7. Washington Precinct 7 shall be described
as follows:
      Beginning at the southwest corner of Washington Township, said point
being the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 11
North, Range 1 West; thence north following west line of said township to the
White River; thence northeast along the meanders of the White River and
township boundary to the point the west line of said township is intersected by
Indiana State Road 39 Bypass; thence southeast along Indiana State Road 39
Bypass to the point Indiana State Road 39 Bypass is intersected by the
Martinsville political city boundary; thence southwest following the city
boundary to the point said city boundary is intersected by Mahalasville Road,
in Section 10, Township 11 North, Range 1 East; thence south on Mahalasville
Road to Sand Creek; thence east along Sand Creek to the point Sand Creek is
intersected by Leonard Road; thence east along Leonard Road to the point
Leonard Road is intersected by the east line of said township, said point being
the northeast corner of Section 13, Township 11 North, Range 1 East; thence
south along east line of said township to the southeast corner of said
township, the same being the southeast corner of Section 36, Township 11 North,
Range 1 East; thence west along the south line of said township to the point of
beginning. Together with an area beginning at the northeast corner of the South
Park Cemetery on the south right-of-way of Poston Road, said point being on the
political boundary of the City of Martinsville; thence south along the east
line of said cemetery and said city boundary to a point in the center of Orange
Street adjacent to the northeast corner of Lot 38 of Southern Acres Subdivision
Section 1; thence west along the north line of said subdivision and city
boundary to the northwest corner of Lot 30 of said subdivision; thence west
following the meanderings of the city boundary to the northeast corner of Lot
116 of Southern Acres Subdivision Section 3; thence west along the north line
of said subdivision to the northwest corner of Lot 120 of said subdivision;
thence north to Poston Road; thence east along Poston Road to the point of
beginning.
         (h)   Washington Precinct 8. Washington Precinct 8 shall be described
as follows:
      Beginning at the point Maple Turn Road intersects Lincoln Hill Road in
Section 15, Township 12 North, Range 1 East; thence south along Lincoln Hill
Road to the point Lincoln Hill Road is intersected by Martinsville city
boundary, near the southwest corner of Section 27, Township 12 North, Range 1
East; thence west following the meanders of said city boundary to the Indiana
State Road 39 Bypass; thence northwest to the point Indiana State Road 39
Bypass is intersected by the White River marking the west line of Washington
Township; thence northeast following the west line of said township, the same
being the White River to the point the White River is intersected by the east
line of Section 12, Township 12 North, Range 1 East; thence south along the
township line to the point the east line of said township is intersected by
Indiana State Road 37; thence southwest along Indiana State Road 37 to an
overhead transmission line approximately 1550 feet northeast of the new Egbert
Road overpass; thence southwest along said transmission line to Ramsgate Road,
in proximity of Maple Turn Road; thence northeast along Ramsgate Road to the
point Ramsgate Road intersects Foxcliff Drive East; thence southwest along
Foxcliff Drive East to the point Foxcliff Drive East intersects Rutland Lane;
thence southeast along Rutland Lane to the point Rutland Lane intersects with
Foxcliff Drive East; thence southwest along Foxcliff Drive East to the point
Foxcliff Drive East intersects Maple Turn Road; thence west along Maple Turn
Road to the point of beginning.
         (i)   Washington Precinct 9. Washington Precinct 9 shall be described
as follows:
      Beginning at the point Indiana State Road 37 is intersected by the east
line of Washington Township, said point being on the east line of Section 13,
Township 12 North, Range 1 East; thence southwest along Indiana State Road 37
to the point Indiana State Road 37 intersects Indiana State Road 252, said
point being where Indiana State Road 37 is intersected by the Martinsville city
boundary; thence southeast, and then following along the meanders of said city
boundary to the point said city boundary is intersected by Mahalasville Road;
thence southeast along Mahalasville Road to the point Mahalasville Road is
intersected by Sand Creek; thence east along the meanders of Sand Creek to the
point Sand Creek is intersected by Leonard Road; thence east on Leonard Road to
the point Leonard Road is intersected by the east line of said township, said
point being the southeast corner of Section 12, Township 11 North, Range 1
East; thence north along the east line of said township to the point of
beginning.
         (j)   Washington Precinct 10. Washington Precinct 10 shall be
described as follows:
      Beginning at the point Maple Turn Road intersects Lincoln Hill Road;
thence south along Lincoln Hill Road to the point Lincoln Hill Road is
intersected by Martinsville city boundary approximately 430 feet south of
Lincoln Hill Lane, in Section 34, Township 12 North, Range 1 East; thence east
following the meanders of said city boundary to the point said by a point
approximately 50 feet east of Kristi Drive; thence south to Indiana State Road
37; thence northeast along Indiana State Road 37 to an overhead transmission
line approximately 1550 feet northeast of the new Egbert Road overpass; thence
southwest along said transmission line to Ramsgate Road in proximity of Maple
Turn Road; thence northeast along Ramsgate Road to the point Ramsgate Road
intersects Foxcliff Drive East; thence southwest along Foxcliff Drive East to
the point Foxcliff Drive East intersects Rutland Lane; thence southeast along
Rutland Lane to the point Rutland Lane intersects with Foxcliff Drive East;
thence southwest along Foxcliff Drive East to the point Foxcliff Drive East
intersects Maple Turn Road; thence west along Maple Turn Road to the point of
beginning. Together with parcel 55-09-33-200-004.000-020, said parcel lying
immediately north of Lincoln Heights Subdivision. Also together with parcel 55-
09-33-200-011.000-020, said parcel lying immediately north of Kivett Parkside
Subdivision Section 3.
(Ord. 1-5-1, passed 1-29-1990; Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-29-2021)
§ 32.04 COUNTY COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)    Morgan County is divided into four County Council election districts,
designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District 1. This district shall consist of all of Washington
Township;
      (2)   District 2. This district shall consist of all precincts in Green,
Jackson and Harrison Townships, Clay Township Precincts 1 and 2 and Madison
Township Precincts 1, 2, 3, and 6;
      (3)   District 3. This district shall consist of all Brown Township
precincts, Clay Township Precinct 3 and Madison Township Precincts 4 and 5; and
      (4)   District 4. This district shall consist of all of Adams, Ashland,
Baker, Gregg, Jefferson, Monroe and Ray Townships.
   (B)   This section repeals and supersedes all prior ordinances establishing
districts for the County Council.
(Ord. 1-5-2.2, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-29-2021)
§ 32.05 COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   (A)    Morgan County is divided into three County Board of Commissioner
election districts, designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District 1. This district shall consist of all of Green, Jackson
and Washington Townships;
      (2)   District 2. This district shall consist of all of Adams, Ashland,
Baker, Clay, Gregg, Jefferson, Monroe and Ray Townships; and
      (3)   District 3. This district shall consist of all of Brown, Harrison
and Madison Townships.
   (B)   This section repeals, supersedes and replaces all prior Commissioner
District ordinances (Ordinance 1-5-3).
   (C)   A copy of this section shall be filed with the Circuit Court Clerk and
shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and upon filing
said copy with the County Circuit Clerk.
(Ord. 1-5-3.1, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-29-2021)
§ 32.06 HARRISON TOWNSHIP FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Harrison Township Fire District No. 7 is hereby established.
   (B)   Said Harrison Township Fire District No. 7 shall be coextensive with
and have the same legal boundaries as Harrison Township of Morgan county,
Indiana.
   (C)   Said Harrison Township Fire District No. 7 is established in
accordance with I.C. 36-8-11 and shall have the powers and duties as set forth
by I. C. 36-8-11-15 and all other rights, powers, duties and authority as may
now, or hereafter be, authorized for a fire protection district.
   (D)   There shall be five Trustees for such Fire Protection District. The
initial Trustees are appointed as follows: one member whose term is to expire
on the first Monday of January, 1987; one member whose term is to expire on the
first Monday of January, 1988; one member whose term is to expire on the first
Monday of January, 1989; one member whose term is to expire on the first Monday
of January, 1990; and one member whose term is to expire on the first Monday of
January, 1990.
   (E)   Such Board of Trustees shall prepare a budget for the fiscal year of
1987 and submit such budget to the County Council, as by law provided, in
accordance with I.C. 36-8-11-18.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall be entitled to make
appointments to the Board of Trustees of Harrison Fire District No. 7, in
accordance with existing law.
   (G)   The meeting place of such Board of Trustees shall be the Harrison
Township Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 1-6-1, passed 6-9-1986)
§ 32.07 MONROE TOWNSHIP FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Monroe Township Fire District is hereby established.
   (B)   Said Monroe Township Fire District shall be co-extensive with and have
the same legal boundaries of Monroe Township, Morgan County, Indiana (to
include the Town of Lake Hart).
   (C)   Said Monroe Township Fire District is established in accordance with
I.C. 36-8-11 and shall have all rights, powers, duties, authority and
responsibility as authorized under I.C. 36-8-11-15.
   (D)   There shall be five trustees in said Fire District whose initial
appointments and expiration dates shall be as follows:
      (1)   One trustee whose term expires first Monday in January 1995;
      (2)   One trustee whose term expires first Monday in January 1996;
      (3)   One trustee whose term expires first Monday in January 1997;
      (4)   One trustee whose term expires first Monday in January 1998; and
      (5)   One trustee whose term expires first Monday in January 1998.
   (E)   Said Board of Trustees shall prepare a budget for the fiscal year of
1995 and submit such a budget, as by law provided.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall be entitled to make
appointments of trustees to such Board in event any vacancy occurs.
(Ord. 1-6-2, passed 6-6-1994)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Organizations in General
   
33.01   Advisory Board
   
33.02   Board of Tax Adjustment abolished
   
33.03   Citizens Advisory Committee
   
33.04   [Reserved]
   
33.05   Public Defender Board
   
33.06   Department of Economic Development; Economic Development Commission
   
33.07   [Reserved]
   
33.08   HAVA Advisory Council
   
33.09   County Convention, Visitors and Tourism Commission
   
33.10   Public Safety Dispatch Department
   
33.11   Weed Control Board
   
33.12   Board of Commisioners
Sheriff’s Department
   
33.25   Sheriff’s reserve
   
33.26   Use of vehicles
   
33.27   Personnel policy; tardiness
   
33.28   Retention of service weapon, badge and ID
   
33.29   Deferred compensation plan
ORGANIZATIONS IN GENERAL
§ 33.01 ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   A County Corrections Advisory Board is hereby established to advise
and assist in the establishment of rules for the County Community Corrections
Program, to assist and advise in the operations of such program, make report of
the progress and activities of such program to the County Board of
Commissioners and make recommendations to the Commissioners concerning the
operations of such program. This Advisory Board shall consist of the Sheriff of
the county, the Prosecuting Attorney of the county, the County Welfare
Director, the Mayor of Martinsville, one Judge having criminal jurisdiction,
one Judge having juvenile jurisdiction, one Attorney with a substantial
criminal defense practice, one Probation Officer, one Educational
Administrator, one Mental Health Administrator, one ex-offender (if available),
and four lay persons.
   (B)   Members of the Advisory Board appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners shall be appointed for a term of four years. The criminal defense
attorney shall be appointed for a term of four years. Other members serve only
while holding the office or position held at the time of appointment.
   (C)   The Advisory Board shall report to the County Board of Commissioners
concerning operations of the Community Corrections Program.
   (D)   The Advisory Board shall, within 30 days after the last appointment is
made, meet and elect one member as Chairperson, another member as Vice
Chairperson, and appoint a Secretary-Treasurer who need not be a member.
(Ord. 1-3-1, passed 6-3-1985)
§ 33.02 BOARD OF TAX ADJUSTMENT ABOLISHED.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 1985, in accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-2 9-9, the
County Board of Tax Adjustment is hereby abolished.
   (B)   The County Board of Tax Adjustment as provided for by I.C. 6-1.1-29-
1 shall, effective July 1, 1985, cease to exist and its provisions of I.C. 6-
1.1-29-9, which provides for the procedure in event such County Board of Tax
Adjustment is abolished shall be applicable to the functions and authority
heretofore exercised by the County Board of Tax Adjustment.
(Ord. 1-2-1, passed 6-3-1985)
§ 33.03 CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created a Citizens Advisory Committee on the use of the
County Drug-Free Community Fund. The committee shall be composed of the
Steering Committee/Board of Directors of the County Partners in Action for
Youth (PAY), a community organization created to assess the community’s need in
the prevention and control of substance abuse. The duties of the Committee are
to collect information on potential uses for the County Drug Free Community
Fund established under I.C. 5-2-11-1, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the
allocation of those funds, and to report its findings and recommendations of an
annual or more frequent basis to the Board of Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 1-3-2, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 33.04 [RESERVED].
§ 33.05 PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. The County Public Defender Board is hereby
established for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent
defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition,
child support, civil commitments and other proceedings where the right to
counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/ RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal
representation and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal
representation at public expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
         (a)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent
in a matter originating in a state court in county involving:
            1.   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. 35-41-1-6;
            2.   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
            3.   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part
of a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
            4.   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
            5.   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
31-25-3-1 et seq;
            6.   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
            7.   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
         (b)   LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with all
pre-trial, trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of three members; with one member to be
appointed by the County Board of Commissioners, and two members, each from
different political parties, to be appointed by a majority vote of the judges
who exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction in the county.
      (2)   The initial term of the member appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the county shall expire one year after the date of
appointment. The initial term of one member appointed by the judges shall
expire two years after the date of appointment and the initial term of the
other member appointed by the judges shall expire three years after the date of
appointment.
      (3)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board: a city, town or county attorney, a law enforcement officer, a judge
or a court employee.
      (5)   Board members shall serve without pay but may receive reimbursement
for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if approved by the
Board.
      (6)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (7)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (8)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
      (9)   The Board of Commissioners of the county may terminate the County
Public Defender Board by giving at least 90 days’ written notice to the judges
described in division (C)(1) above.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The Comprehensive Plan shall provide for one of the following methods for
providing legal defense services to indigent persons:
         (a)   Establishing a county public defenders office;
         (b)   Contracting with an attorney, a group of attorneys or a private
organization; or
         (c)   Utilizing an assigned counsel system of panel attorneys for
case-by-case appointments under I.C. 33-40-7-9.
      (2)   The Comprehensive Plan prepared by the Board must first be approved
by the Board of Commissioners of the county prior to submission, or re-
submission, to the Public Defender Commission;
      (3)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt and other
matters pursuant to the Comprehensive Plan;
      (4)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigency and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7;
      (5)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
      (6)   Prepare and submit to the County Council, the Board of
Commissioners of the county and the general public an annual report on the
operation of the Agency.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the State of Indiana.
   (F)   Scope of section. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a
right of reimbursement pursuant to I.C. 33-40-7-4, except to the extent that
any claims for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-7-4 and the Standards of
the State Public Defender Commission.
(Ord. 1-3-5, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 33.06 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-4, the Council finds it necessary to create a
body with the powers to finance economic development or pollution control
facilities under the Act and hereby establishes the County Department of
Economic Development (the “Department”). The Department is established to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted by law. Pursuant
to I.C. 37-7-12-7, the Department will be controlled by a board of three
members to be known as the County Economic Development Commission (the
“Commission”) consisting of three members to be appointed by the Board, one of
such members to be nominated by the Council, one of such members to be selected
by the Board, and one of such members to be nominated by the Common Council of
the City of Martinsville, Indiana.
   (B)   The Council hereby nominates as its member of the Commission, with a
term of office beginning on the date of his or her appointment by the Board and
expiring on January 31, 2005.
(Ord. 1-3-6, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 33.07 [RESERVED]
§ 33.08 HAVA ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The County HAVA Advisory Council is established, which is a local
advisory council comprised of representatives of the disabilities community and
elderly voters to provide assistance to the county in choosing polling places.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall serve as a standing member of the HAVA Advisory
Council.
   (C)   Residents of the county are appointed as initial appointees.
   (D)   As necessary, the County Clerk and the Commissioners may make
additional appointees.
(Ord. 1-5-5.3, passed 7-5-2005)
§ 33.09 COUNTY CONVENTION, VISITORS AND TOURISM COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be established the County Convention, Visitors and Tourism
Commission (the “Commission”).
   (B)   The Commission shall be established pursuant to I.C. 6-9-18-5 and
shall have all authority set forth in I.C. 6-9-18-6.
   (C)   The Commission shall consist of five members. At least three members
shall be engaged in a convention, visitor or tourism business. If available and
willing to serve, at least two members must be engaged in the business of
renting or furnishing, on a short term basis, rooms, lodging or accommodations,
as defined in I.C. 6-9-8-3. Not more than one member may be affiliated with the
same business entity. No more than three members may be associated with the
same political party.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint four members to the
Commission and the executive of the largest municipality in the county shall
appoint a number of the members of the Commission, which number shall be in the
same ratio to the total size of the Commission (rounded off to the nearest
whole number) that the population of the largest municipality bears to the
total population of the county.
   (E)   The initial appointments shall be for staggered terms, with three
members to be appointed for an initial term of three years and two members
appointed to an initial term of two years. All subsequent terms shall be for
two years. A member may be removed for cause by the appointing authority.
   (F)   The Commission members shall not receive a salary. Before entering his
or her duties, each Commission member shall take an oath of office, which oath
shall be filed in the Circuit Court.
   (G)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 of each year for
organization. The Commission shall elect one of its members as President,
another Vice President, another as Secretary, and another as Treasurer. The
members elected to those offices shall perform the duties pertaining to the
offices. The first officers chosen shall serve from the date of their election
until their successors are elected and qualified. A majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum, and the concurrence of a majority of the Commission is
necessary to authorize any action.
(Ord. 1-3-10, passed 10-4-2010; Ord. 2023-23, passed 10-16-2023)
§ 33.10 PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Any duties or responsibilities previously undertaken by the County
Public Safety Dispatch Board shall now be the responsibility of the County
Public Safety Dispatch Department with oversight from the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   This section shall become effective on January 1, 2018.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 33.11 WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment; duties. The Morgan County Weed Control Board is
established and the Board is empowered to perform all duties set forth as
follows:
      (1)   Taking all necessary and proper steps to control and contain
noxious weeds defined as Canada thistle, Johnson grass, Columbus grass, Bur
cucumber, Shattercane, common waterhemp and tall waterhemp, marestail or
horseweed, Palmer amaranth or carelessweed, poison hemlock, Powell amaranth,
and rough pigweed, and smooth pigweed which have adverse significance on
agricultural production in Indiana.
      (2)   Entering upon any land, public or private, at any reasonable time
after giving 48 hours notice to the person in possession of the land to inspect
for noxious weeds, unless permission is granted to enter earlier.
      (3)   Purchasing supplies, material, and equipment.
      (4)   Acquiring by gift or purchase, holding, or disposing of, any real
property in the name of the Board, to include facilities as offices,
laboratories, operational buildings, rights-of-way, and easements.
      (5)   Making contracts to carry out the duties of the Board.
      (6)   Entering into cooperative agreements with appropriate organizations
to assure technical assistance in developing and carrying out the purposes of
the Board.
      (7)   Identifying problems determined to be of importance to the public
welfare and developing control programs appropriate to a situation.
      (8)   Undertaking investigations to determine the extent infestation on
agricultural production in the county.
      (9)   Employing the latest technological advances to control and contain
noxious weeds in the county.
      (10)   Accepting gifts, grants of money, services, or property for any
use consistent with the objectives of the Board.
      (11)   Exercising all other powers necessary to carry out the purposes of
this section.
      (12)   Performing additional duties as the authorizing body may
prescribe.
   (B)   Control and containment of weeds. 
      (1)   The Weed Control Board shall require persons who own real estate or
easements, right-of-way, or other similar interest in real estate, within
Morgan County, to control and contain noxious weeds growing on the real estate.
A five day written notice shall be issued by the Board and the notice may be
served by certified mail addressed to the last address of the person or to the
person's registered agent or personally by the sheriff. The Weed Control Board
shall notify the township trustee when the Board has sent a notice to a person
to remove noxious weeds growing on real estate in the township.
      (2)   Should a person fail to begin a program recommended by the Weed
Control Board to control and contain noxious weeds within the time prescribed
above, the Weed Control Board may pay the following costs incurred in cutting
or destroying noxious weeds under this section.
         (a)   Chemicals.
         (b)   Equipment.
         (c)   Labor at a rate per hour to be fixed by the Weed Control Board
commensurate with local hourly wages.
      (3)   When the work has been performed, the person doing the work shall
file an itemized bill for the work in the office of the County Auditor. When
the bill has been approved, the Weed Control Board shall pay the bill from the
county general fund unless the county has established a separate fund for the
Weed Control Board. The Weed Control Board shall certify the cost of the work,
adding to the bill $20 per day for each day that a member of the Weed Control
Board or the Board's agent supervises the performance of the services required
under this section as compensation for services. The certified statement of
costs must include a description of the real estate on which the labor was
performed.
      (4)   The certified statement of costs prepared under division (B)(3) of
this section must be provided to the owner or person possessing the real estate
by certified mail or personal service, and by mail to the auditor of state for
any real estate owned by the state or to the fiscal officer of another
municipality for real estate owned by the municipality. The statement must
request that the person pay the cost of performing the service to the Weed
Control Board.
      (5)   Failure to pay for weed control within ten days of receipt of the
certified statement referenced above will result with the Weed Control Board
filing a copy of the certified statement in the office of the County Auditor of
Morgan County. The Auditor shall place the amount claimed in the certified
statement on the tax duplicate of the real estate. The amount claimed shall be
collected as taxes are collected. After the amount is collected, the funds must
be a part of the Weed Control Board fund, if one has been established by the
county, for use at the discretion of the Weed Control Board. If a Weed Control
Board fund has not been established, the funds collected must be deposited in
the county general fund.
      (6)   Any person who fails to begin a program recommended by the Weed
Control Board to control and contain noxious weeds within a time prescribed by
the Board commits a Class C infraction.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 10-15-2018; Ord. 2018-16, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 33.12 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The County Plan Commission shall hereafter consist of nine members as
follows:
   (A)   One member appointed by the county executive from its membership.
   (B)   One member appointed by the county fiscal body from its membership.
   (C)   The County Surveyor or the County Surveyor's designee. However, the
County Surveyor's designee must be a resident of the county to be eligible to
serve on the County Plan Commission.
   (D)   The County Agricultural Extension Educator. However, the County
Agricultural Extension Educator must be a resident of the county to serve under
this subdivision. If: 1) the county does not have a County Agricultural
Extension Educator; or 2) the County Agricultural Extension Educator is not a
resident of the county; then the County Extension Board shall select a resident
of the county who is a property owner with agricultural interest to serve on
the Commission under this subdivision for a period not to exceed one year. In
addition to the county resident selected by the County Extension Board to serve
as a member of the Commission, the County Agricultural Extension Educator who
is not a resident of the county shall serve the Commission in a nonvoting
advisory capacity.
   (E)   Five citizen members, of whom not more than three may be of the same
political party. Each of the five members must be either: 1) a resident of an
unincorporated area of the county; or 2) a resident of the county who is also
an owner of real property located in whole or in part in an unincorporated area
of the county; and appointed by the County Executive. However at least three
members must be residents of the unincorporated area of the county.
   (F)   Current members of the Plan Commission will serve out their respective
terms but any future appointments or reappointments will be made in accordance
with the above.
(Ord. 2024-21, passed 11-4-2024)
SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
§ 33.25 SHERIFF’S RESERVE.
   (A)   The Sheriff of the county has authority to provide for a police
reserve which shall be known as the County Sheriff’s Reserve.
   (B)   The number of such reserves shall be fixed at a number not to exceed
40; provided, however, that the Sheriff at his or her discretion may have any
lesser number of reserves.
   (C)   Such reserves shall be under the control of the Sheriff of the county,
who shall determine the necessary training for such reserves, provide standards
of proficiency and skill, and all such reserves shall serve at the pleasure of
the Sheriff and shall be subject to dismissal by the Sheriff at any time he or
she shall see fit and without cause.
   (D)   Such reserves shall wear such uniform as the Sheriff shall prescribe;
provided, however, that the uniform worn shall be discernable from regular
deputies in any manner the Sheriff shall deem proper.
   (E)   Such reserves shall be subject to the same standards of conduct as
regular deputies; provided, however, the Sheriff may make such additional rules
and modifications of such rules as he or she shall deem necessary and such
rules applicable to reserves shall be furnished to such reserves.
   (F)   Any person appointed as reserves shall be appointed by the Sheriff of
the county subject to confirmation by the County Sheriff’s Merit Board.
   (G)   Any such reserve deputy shall be subordinate in authority to any
regular deputy in event the regular deputy is present at such time and place.
   (H)   Any reserve deputy shall be no less than 21 years of age, a continuous
and bona fide resident of the county for more than one year prior to such
appointment as a reserve deputy, and shall have no conviction of a felony or
crime of moral turpitude.
   (I)   The county may provide uniform allowance, insurance protection, and
the use of equipment and vehicles under control of the Sheriff’s Department.
   (J)   Such reserve deputy shall have the same police powers and authority as
a regular deputy; provided, however, such authority may be restricted by rules
provided by the Sheriff as heretofore set forth.
(Ord. 1-4-7.1, passed 9-20-1982)
§ 33.26 USE OF VEHICLES.
   The motor vehicles owned by the county and furnished to the County Sheriff’s
Department shall be used by the County Sheriff’s Department pursuant to the
direction of the County Sheriff to accomplish the duties and responsibilities
assigned to the County Sheriff’s Department by law except as hereafter
modified.
   (A)   The County Sheriff shall assign motor vehicles to members of the
County Sheriff’s Department at his or her discretion.
   (B)   Any vehicle so assigned shall be subject to such restriction as the
County Sheriff or the County Sheriff’s Merit Board shall set forth.
   (C)   Said officer may use and drive said vehicle so assumed at any time
within the county within his or her discretion and within the rules set forth
by the County Sheriff and the County Sheriff’s Merit Board.
   (D)   Said vehicle may not be driven by anyone other than a member of the
County Sheriff’s Department who is a legitimate and lawful police officer,
except authorized by the County Sheriff for specific purposes such as the
maintenance of the vehicle.
   (E)   No persons may be in or transported in such vehicle except as may be
necessary or required by the deputy’s duties as a member of the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (F)   No members of the deputy’s family or the persons not a part of the law
enforcement agency may be transported in such vehicle except as may be required
as the officer’s specific duties as a police officer of the county.
   (G)   Said vehicles should not be removed from the geographical area of the
county, except as authorized by the Sheriff of the county, and which may be
specifically required by the officer’s duties as a police officer.
   (H)   The provision of this section shall not apply to vehicles operated by
the duly elected and qualified Sheriff of the county.
(Ord. 1-4-7, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 33.27 PERSONNEL; TARDINESS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all non-merit employees of the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   Each employee will be entitled to one tardy per pay period, each tardy
thereafter is considered an “offense” and subject to the following progression:
      (1)   First offense: oral warning;
      (2)   Second offense: written warning;
      (3)   Third offense: suspension; and
      (4)   Fourth offense: termination.
   (C)   The above progression applies to any offenses which occur within one
year of the first offense.
   (D)   This section shall be effective immediately upon passage.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2001)
§ 33.28 RETENTION OF SERVICE WEAPON, BADGE AND ID.
   When an eligible merit police employee of the County Sheriff’s Department
retires after at least 20 years of service to the County Sheriff’s Department,
he or she is eligible to retain his or her standard service weapon and receive
a “retired” badge in recognition of his or her service to the Department and
the public. Upon retirement, the Department shall issue to the retiring
employee an identification card listing the officer’s name, rank, retired
status and authorizing the officer to retain his or her service weapon.
(Ord. 1-4-7.6, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 33.29 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   A Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby established for the County
Sheriff’s Department to allow for the voluntary participation of employees of
the Department.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Department will utilize the Deferred Compensation Plan
established by the County Sheriff’s Departments in Indiana, known as the
Indiana Sheriffs 457(b) Plan and participate in the group trust arrangement
established by that Deferred Compensation Plan; and the Sheriff is hereby
authorized to sign the adoption agreement to participate in the Deferred
Compensation Plan.
   (C)   The Commissioners hereby authorize the County Auditor to make
deductions from the pay of employees of the Sheriff’s Department who
voluntarily participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan and to deposit the
deferrals in the Trust. The Commissioners also authorize the Committee made up
of representatives of the Sheriff’s Departments participating in the Plan (as
determined by participating Sheriff’s Departments) to make such other
arrangements as are necessary to implement the Plan. It is understood that,
other than the incidental expenses related to collecting the employees’
deferrals and other minor administrative matters, there is to be no cost to or
contribution by the county to this Plan.
(Ord. 1-1-7, passed 9-15-2008)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Civil defense merit program
   
34.02   911 emergency telephone system
   
34.03   Emergency ambulance service
   
34.04   Adoption of the National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
34.05   Levels of emergency
Department of Emergency Management
   
34.20   Purpose
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Scope and intent
   
34.23   Limitations; nonsupersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
34.24   Limitations; nonsupersession of emergency powers of incorporated
municipalities; conformance of municipal regulation with county regulations
   
34.25   Emergency Management Program; Department of Emergency Management
   
34.26   Applicability of subchapter
   
34.27   Responsibilities of Department prior to declaration of local disaster
emergency
   
34.28   Special emergency powers and duties of Principal Executive Officer;
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
34.29   Special emergency powers and duties of Principal Executive Officer;
convention of emergency meeting of Board of Commissioners; special meeting
procedures
   
34.30   Plenipotentiary powers in absence of Board quorum
   
34.31   Special emergency powers and duties of Board of Commissioners
   
34.32   Director of Emergency Management
   
34.33   Officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county during emergency
   
34.34   Priority of emergency orders, rules and regulations
   
34.35   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations; obstruction
or impersonations of emergency management authorities; enforcement
   
34.36   Limitation of liability during state of emergency or emergency or
emergency tests
   
34.37   Reimbursement for use of property commandeered during emergency
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 CIVIL DEFENSE MERIT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Hereby established is a merit system of personnel administration for
all paid employees of the Civil Defense Agency of the county, to be serviced by
the State Personnel Division.
   (B)   The County Civil Defense Director is hereby authorized and directed to
enter into such arrangements and agreements with the State Department of Civil
Defense and the State Personnel Division as may be necessary to provide for a
continuing merit program of personnel administration for all County Civil
Defense employees.
   (C)   Such merit program shall be serviced by the State Personnel Division
pursuant to the authority granted by I.C. 4-15-2-36, Page 37 of the State
Personnel Act as amended by the Acts of 1971, and shall meet federal merit
system standards of the U.S. Department of Defense, including the exemption of
any positions from the merit program as is recognized in these same federal
standards.
   (D)   For the purposes of administering the merit program for all paid
employees of the Civil Defense Agency, the County Civil Defense Director is
hereby considered and designated as the appointing officer.
(Ord. 1-4-1.2, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 34.02 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.
   (A)   A monthly fee in the amount of $1.10 is authorized to be collected by
the service supplier for each service user served by the county emergency
telephone system to pay for the lease, purchase or maintenance of enhanced
emergency telephone equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software
and data base provisions; the rates associated with the service suppliers’
enhanced emergency telephone system network services; and the personnel
expenses of the emergency telephone system.
   (B)   Each service supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone
fee on behalf of the county is entitled to a 3% administrative fee as
compensation for collecting the fees as set forth in I.C. 36-8-16.7-29. The
service provider shall remit the rest of the fees it collects during a calendar
quarter to the Treasurer of the county within ten days after the last day of
the quarter. At the same time such funds are remitted to the County Treasurer,
the service provider shall provide a fee collection report to the County
Treasurer on a form provided by the Treasurer.
   (C)   The County Treasurer shall deposit such fees as remitted pursuant to
this ordinance into a separate fund. The fund shall be known as the “Morgan
County Emergency Telephone System Fund”. The County Treasurer may invest the
money in the fund in the same manner that other monies of the county may be
invested. The County Treasurer shall deposit any income earned for such
investment in the fund.
   (D)   During January of each year, each service supplier that is required to
collect the fee set forth in this section shall provide the Treasurer of the
county a delinquent fee report. On such report the service supplier shall list
the name and address of each service user who is two or more months delinquent
in paying the fee. The service provider shall also indicate the amount of the
delinquency for each person listed on such list. The County Treasurer may
initiate action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the
collection of such fees.
(Ord. 1-2-9, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 34.03 EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   The County Emergency Management Agency is hereby authorized to
continue the emergency ambulance service as has been heretofore provided,
subject to appropriate and applicable regulations and statutes.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term PATIENT shall refer to any injured
party or party requiring emergency transportation to a medical care facility.
   (C)   The term MEDICAL CARE FACILITY shall mean the County Memorial Hospital
or other facility providing similar medical care.
   (D)   As defined herein, each patient who is transported to a medical care
facility or who requires emergency ambulance service provided by the County
Emergency Management Agency shall be subject to the fees as hereinafter set
forth.
   (E)   Persons who are not injured or requiring medical care and are simply
accompanying the patient shall not be charged or considered a patient as used
in this section; however, each patient who requires services as set forth in
division (D) above shall be subject to the charges as hereinafter set forth.
   (F)   As used in this section, the term RUN shall refer to the
transportation of a patient from the point of pick up by the emergency
ambulance service to a medical care facility or other destination which
requires emergency ambulance service.
   (G)   In the event the patient is taken to a medical care facility, removed
from the ambulance, and later in need of transport to another medical care
facility, the move to the second medical care facility shall be considered a
separate run and the patient shall be charged accordingly.
   (H)    The following fees shall apply to any patient being transported by
the County Emergency Medical Service (EMS) by ambulance service:
      (1)   $1,150 for each run with Basic Life Support Service;
      (2)   $1,450 for each run with Advanced Life Support Service (1);
      (3)   $1,650 for each run with Advanced Life Support Service (2);
      (4)   $25 for each mile or fraction thereof that the patient is
transported on each ran; and
      (5)   $450 for occasions in which treatment is rendered, but no transport
required.
      (6)   Patients who self-pay this expense out-of-pocket directly to the
EMS shall receive a discount of 50% of the total amount owed in accordance with
this division.
      (7)   Any employee of EMS who receives services under this section for
themselves or their immediate family shall not be required to pay any amount
owed in accordance with this division that is not paid by their insurance
provider.
      (8)   Any other public safety personnel who work primarily for an agency
in Morgan County who receives services under this section for themselves or
their immediate family shall be required to pay 50% of any amount that is not
paid by their insurance provider.
   (I)   All patients shall be transported to the County Memorial Hospital
unless the patient specifically requests another medical care facility or in
the event that competent medical personnel recommends transport to another
medical care facility.
   (J)   The County Emergency Management Agency is hereby authorized to obtain
necessary information to bill and collect fees as provided herein, which fees
when collected shall be remitted to the County Treasurer to be deposited into
the General Fund of the county.
   (K)   The collection of the fees and billing, as provided herein, may be
attempted by designated persons within the County Emergency Management Agency
or a third party vendor, subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners. The
County Emergency Management Agency, may, at its discretion, take measures
through the County Attorney to collect any unpaid fees and costs of collection,
including reasonable attorney fees.
   (L)   The emergency ambulance services as outlined in this section shall be
provided only in the event that private emergency service is unavailable at the
time the request for services is made, except that the County Emergency
Management Agency shall be the primary ambulance service for the County
Sheriff’s Department and the county jail. In addition the County Emergency
Management Agency shall be allowed to provide ambulance service to community
organizations and school events, subject to a request by the Director and the
consent of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1-4-1, passed 2-5-2001; Ord. 1-4-1.1, passed 12-26-2001; Ord. 1-4-1.1,
passed 9-16-2002; Ord. 2017-3, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-30-2017;
Ord. 2020-7, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 34.04 ADOPTION OF THE NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   The National Incident Management System dated March 1, 2004 is hereby
adopted by the county.
(Ord. 1-7-1, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.05 LEVELS OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   There shall be established “Levels of Emergency” for the county, as
set forth below.
      (1)   LEVEL 1 - Emergency (Red): A State of Emergency has been declared.
Travel may be restricted to emergency personnel only. Further restrictions may
be included in the declaration.
      (2)   LEVEL 2 - Warning (Orange): Conditions are threatening to the
safety of the public. Only essential travel is recommended (i.e., to and from
work, school or emergency situations and the like.) Emergency action plans have
been or should be implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies and
other organizations.
      (3)   LEVEL 3 - Watch (Yellow): Routine travel or activities may be
restricted in areas due to hazardous conditions; citizens should use caution or
avoid these areas. Schools and businesses may begin to implement their
emergency action plans.
      (4)   CAUTION - (White): A condition may develop that limits or hinders
travel or activities in isolated areas. No travel restrictions have been
reported but citizens should be alert to changing conditions.
   (B)   The Commissioners, or their designees, shall have the authority to
declare the state of emergency and levels set forth above. When determining a
Level 1 - State of Emergency, the Commissioners shall determine the manner in
which travel is restricted.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 3-16-2009)
DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 34.20 PURPOSE.
   To establish in the county a Department of Emergency Management and to
provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The Morgan County Emergency Management Advisory Council as
established under this subchapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Morgan County Emergency Management
Advisory Council as established under this subchapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
3-17.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Emergency Management as established under this
subchapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management as established and
appointed pursuant to this subchapter.
   DISASTER. The occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm,
wave action, oil spill, other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, hazardous materials spill or contamination requiring
emergency action to avert danger or damage, air contamination, drought,
explosion, riot or hostile military or paramilitary action which cannot be
handled by normal operating personnel, procedures, resources or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the execution of all emergency
functions, to include mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly rostered,
identified and appointed by the Director, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   HUMAN-MADE DISASTER. Any incidents including, but not limited to, riots,
strikes, insurrections, terrorist acts, civil disturbances, threats to national
security or other human-made cause.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any incidents affecting or threatening public health,
welfare, safety or security including, but not limited to, flood, tornado,
earthquake, wind, storm, winter storm or other natural cause.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the County Emergency
Operations Plan to participate in emergency management activities pursuant to
I.C. 10-4; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a cooperative
mutual aid agreement or memorandum of understanding entered in to pursuant to
I.C. 10-14-3-17and I.C. 10-4.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN. The current County Emergency Plan whose preparation
and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-4-1-100.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-17
for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, means a majority of the
members of the Board of Commissioners of the county, except that if a majority
of the elected members are unavailable or incapacitated, then the remaining
member of the Board of Commissioners shall be considered the PRINCIPAL
EXECUTIVE OFFICER. In the absence or incapacity of all County Commissioners,
the office of PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER shall devolve upon first the County
Auditor, second, upon the County Clerk, Third, upon the County Recorder, and
fourth, the EMA Director. THE PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY
selected by the above procedure, if not a member of the County Commission,
shall exercise all powers of such Officer under I.C. 10-14-3-17 until such time
as a County Commissioner shall no longer be unavailable or incapacitated, at
which time the County Commissioner shall assume all the powers and duties
associated with the office of President of the Board. The Principal Executive
Officer of the county selected by the above procedure, if a member of the Board
of Commissioners, shall exercise all powers and fulfill all duties of the
Principal Executive Officer under I.C. 10-14-3-17 until such time as a majority
of the members of the Board of Commissioners shall no longer be unavailable or
incapacitated, at which time the majority of the members of the Board of
Commissioners shall resume all the powers and duties associated with their
office.
   SEMA. The State Emergency Management Agency established under I.C. 10-8-2-1.
   TECHNOLOGICAL DISASTER. Any incidents including, but not limited to, severe
fire, explosions, hazardous material spills, radiological problems or other
technological cause.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.22 SCOPE AND INTENT.
   The general intent of this subchapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to, and recover from emergency conditions. To this end all powers, both
ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein shall be liberally construed
and shall be construed as intending to supplement and augment, and not to
limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may
ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees, department and agencies.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.23 LIMITATIONS; NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff to request assistance of the national guard under
the circumstances delineated in I.C. 10-16-7-9 and 10-16-7-10.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.24 LIMITATIONS; NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF INCORPORATED
MUNICIPALITIES; CONFORMANCE OF MUNICIPAL REGULATION WITH COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to supersede or delimit the powers of
any incorporated municipality under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to adopt and implement
emergency plans, and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and
procedures in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such municipality;
however, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, such regulations and procedures as
promulgated by the municipal authorities may not be inconsistent with the
county emergency regulations and procedures as established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.25 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM; DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   County Emergency Management Advisory Council established; appointment
and terms of members. In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17, there is established
the County Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the
following persons or its designees:
      (1)   The President of the county executive;
      (2)   The President of the county fiscal body;
      (3)   The Mayor of each city located in the county;
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county; and
      (5)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or
organizations which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
organizing group considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council.
   (B)   Officers. The Advisory Council shall have a Chairperson, a Vice
Chairperson and a Recording Secretary. These officers shall be elected by the
Advisory Council for one-year terms.
   (C)   Duties of Emergency Management Advisory Council as established in I.C.
10-14-3-17.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of the county, and shall
recommend a County Emergency Management Director to the Board of Commissioners,
who may approve the Advisory Council’s recommendation or shall appoint such
other person as it deems proper to serve as the County Emergency Management
Director. The County Emergency Management Director shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the
emergency management program in the county and shall be responsible to the
Chairperson of the Advisory Council. The Emergency Management Director shall
not hold any other local or state government office.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall have the power to terminate, with the
approval of the County Executive, a County Emergency Management Director, under
the circumstances delineated in division (E)(2) below.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once biannually; the
frequency, time and place being determined by the Council.
      (4)   Any and all meetings of the Advisory Council shall be open meetings
and shall be posted in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5.
   (D)   Department of Emergency Management established; organization and
constituency of the Department.
      (1)   Emergency Management within the executive branch of the county
government for the purpose of utilizing to the fullest extent possible the
personnel and facilities of existing county departments and agencies to prepare
for and meet any disaster as defined in this subchapter. The County
Commissioners and Director of Emergency Management shall be responsible for its
organization, administration and operation. The Department shall consist of the
following:
         (a)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management appointed in accordance
with division (E) below;
         (b)   A Deputy Director, who shall be appointed by the Director with
the approval of the Advisory Council;
         (c)   Emergency management volun-teers, as deemed necessary and
appointed by the Director in accordance with §
34.32 and in accordance with the Plan;
         (d)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all county
departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to emergency management and
designated by the plan to participate in emergency management activity;
         (e)   Staff officers with responsibility for Warning and
Communications, Radiological, Health, Emergency Care, Police, Fire and Rescue,
Public Works, and Public Information in accordance with the Plan; and
         (f)   Such assistants, clerical help and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Department who may be appointed by
the Director in accordance with the Plan.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no
compensated position may be established within the Department of Emergency
Management nor any person appointed to such position without:
         (a)   The authorization of the County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-
3(a); and
         (b)   The making of sufficient appropriations to pay such
compensation.
      (3)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies and
employees of county departments, classify positions and adopt schedules of
compensation.
      (4)   It is the intent of this section that emergency management and
disaster assignments under the Plan shall be as nearly consistent with normal
duty assignments as possible.
   (E)   Director of Emergency Management; appointment, qualifications and
tenure.
      (1)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be appointed pursuant to
the procedures set forth in division (C)(1) above. The Director may hold no
other local, state or federal office.
      (2)    The appointment of the Director shall be for a two year term.  On
or before the anniversary date of the appointment of the Director, the Advisory
Council shall meet and recommend to the Board of Commissioners whether to
retain the Director, terminate the Director or appoint a new Director. The
recommendation by the Advisory Council may be the current Director or such
other person as the Advisory Council shall deem proper. The Board of
Commissioners may then approve the Advisory Council’s recommendation or shall
appoint such other person they deem proper to serve as the County Emergency
Management Director. The Director shall serve, at all times, at the pleasure of
the Board of Commissioners and may be terminated at any time by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall recommend termination of the Director to
the Board of Commissioners, who may then, at its discretion, terminate the
Director.
      (4)   Additional qualifications for Director may be determined by the
Advisory Council, with input from the County Commissioners pursuant to I.C. 10-
14-3-17.
   (F)   Director of Emergency Management; general powers and duties. The
Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory Council, shall
be executive head of the Department and shall have responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the County Department of
Emergency Management, including the following specific powers and duties:
      (1)   Submitting to the Advisory Council and the County Commissioners a
yearly report on the County Emergency Management Agency, including mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery taken in the previous year and planned and
recommended for the year to come;
      (2)   Keeping the County Commissioners fully informed on emergency
management activities;
      (3)   Writing and implementing the Plan, which shall conform to the
guidelines contained in the most current state and federal guidance documents
if the county wishes to receive state and/or federal matching;
      (4)   Assuring that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the Plan receive training in the functions which
they are to perform under the plan;
      (5)   Designing and conducting exercises of the Plan, as required by
SEMA;
      (6)   Assuring that the Plan addresses all hazards and includes all
cities, towns and other population centers within the county;
      (7)   Updating the Plan as needed to keep it current, as required by I.C.
10-14-3-17;
      (8)   Identifying and analyzing the effects of hazards that threaten the
jurisdiction;
      (9)   Working closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
      (10)   Inventorying manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
      (11)   Identifying resource deficiencies and working with appropriate
officials on measures to correct them;
      (12)   Developing an emergency operating center (“EOC”) as a site from
which key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or
emergency;
      (13)   Developing and maintaining an emergency communications system;
      (14)   Establishing a system to alert key officials in event of a
disaster or emergency;
      (15)   Developing continuity of government procedures and systems;
      (16)   Establishing and maintaining a shelter and reception and care
system;
      (17)   Developing a training program for emergency response personnel;
      (18)   Developing a tests and exercise program;
      (19)   Coordinating with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Plan;
      (20)   Making rapid and accurate assessment of:
         (a)   Property damage;
         (b)   Personal injuries;
         (c)   Fatalities;
         (d)   Basic needs;
         (e)   Special needs; and
         (f)   As soon as a state of emergency or disaster declaration has been
made.
      (21)   Submitting to SEMA the assessment specified in § 3.F.7. in SEMA’s
required:
         (a)   Format; and
         (b)   Time frame for submission.
      (22)   Providing to the SEMA Director annual reports and documentation as
mandated by SEMA;
      (23)   Completely managing the Department’s various functions, including
among others financial, personnel and logistic;
      (24)   Timely responsiveness to the Chairperson of the Advisory Council,
as mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17;
      (25)   Timely obedience to the directives of superior state authorities;
      (26)   Assuring that the activities of the Department at all times
comport with I.C. 10-4-1 and other applicable statutes and county ordinances;
      (27)   Attendance at, and passing grades in, the Emergency Management
Professional Development Series for emergency management presented by the
Public Safety Training Institute minimum of one class per year during the
tenure as Director;
      (28)   Attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (29)   Assuring the Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades
in, the Emergency Management Professional Development Series for emergency
management presented by the Public Safety Training Institute minimum of one
class per year during tenure as Deputy Director;
      (30)   Assuring the Deputy Director’s and all paid emergency management
staff’s attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (31)   Assuring ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director
and all paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management;
      (32)   Responsibility for public relations, information and education
regarding all phases of emergency management;
      (33)   Assuring coordination, within the county, of all activities for
emergency management;
      (34)   Maintaining liaison and coordination with all other affected
agencies, public and private;
      (35)   Coordination of the recruitment and training for volunteer
personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county
for emergency management purposes;
      (36)   Seeking, negotiating and entering into (with the approval or
ratification of the Commissioners and to the extent consistent with the State
Emergency Operations Plan and programs) cooperatives, mutual aid agreements and
memorandum of understanding with other public and private agencies for
emergency management purposes, and taking all steps in accordance with such
arrangements to comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of an actual
emergency affecting the parties;
      (37)   Accepting any offer of the federal government to provide for the
use of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds for
emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan, when such offer
has been approved by the Governor;
      (38)   Seeking and accepting from any person, firm or corporation, any
gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds or
licenses or privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county for
emergency management purposes;
      (39)   Issuing proper insignia and papers to emergency management workers
and other people directly concerned with emergency management;
      (40)   Assuring that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth at §
34.21 prior to accepting them as members of the Department; and
      (41)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above, the
Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3-17. In particular, but not
by limitation, the Director, through the Department, may perform or cause to be
performed with respect to the county, any function parallel or analogous to
those performed on a statewide basis by SEMA under I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   (G)   Deputy Director; general powers and duties.
      (1)   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to division (E)(1)
(b) above, he or she shall during normal times assist the Director in the
performance of his or her duties.
      (2)   During an emergency, the Deputy Director shall assist the Director
and shall fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence or incapacity of
the Director to serve.
   (H)   Principal Executive Officer and Board of Commissioners: general
administrative powers and duties; tests of emergency operations plan.
      (1)   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the
Principal Executive Officer pertaining to emergency management shall be:
         (a)   Seeking the advice and input of the Director as to the
advisability of declaring a local disaster emergency; and
         (b)   Declaring, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-23(a), a local disaster
emergency.
      (2)   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the
County Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
         (a)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and
administration for the Department;
         (b)   Adoption of the Plan;
         (c)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Plan;
         (d)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Plan;
         (e)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
duties in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers
of such agencies consistent with the Plan;
         (f)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department
to conduct tests of the Plan; and
         (g)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Plan.
      (3)   Emergency management tests may be conducted at any time with or
without prior notification to persons other than the Director. All emergency
tests conducted within the boundaries of the county shall be coordinated with
the Department.
   (I)   Qualifications and appointment of emergency management volunteers.
      (1)   The Director shall assure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the
Department:
         (a)   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Not be convicted of a felony; and
         (c)   Have completed and have on file with the Department an
application form.
      (2)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements and formal entry upon
the Department’s roster of volunteers, the applicant is officially a member of
the County Department of Emergency Management.
   (J)   Department budgeting and finance.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation
of the budget.
      (2)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
      (3)   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
   (K)   Emergency operations plan; formulation, content and adoption of plan.
      (1)   A County Emergency Operations Plan shall be adopted by resolution
of the County Commissioners. in the preparation of this Plan, as it pertains to
county organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities
and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the
fullest extent possible.
      (2)   The Plan shall have, at minimum, the following contents:
         (a)   Basic Plan - to include:
            1.   Purpose;
            2.   Situation/Assumptions;
            3.   Concept of Operations;
            4.   Assignment of Respon-sibilities;
            5.   Direction and Control;
            6.   Continuity of Government;
            7.   Administration and Logistics; and
            8.   Execution.
         (b)   Annexes - to include:
            1.   Direction and Control (Warning and Communication);
            2.   Radiological Protection;
            3.   Law Enforcement;
            4.   Fire and Rescue;
            5.   Health and Medical;
            6.   Hazardous Materials Response for SARA Title 111 release (to be
drafted by the Local Emergency Planning Committee, pursuant to I.C. 13-7-37-
12);
            7.   Hazardous Materials Response for Non-SARA Title III release;
            8.   American Red Cross of Greater Indianapolis, County Branch
Disaster Operation Plan (Sheltering, Welfare and Human Services);
            9.   Evacuation;
            10.   Public Works; and
            11.   Resources and Supply.
      (3)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
         (a)   If they develop internal plans, assure that those plans are
drafted subject to the requirements of the Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate internal plans with the Department of Emergency
Management;
         (c)   Assure inclusion of internal plans within the County Plan;
         (d)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County Plan;
and
         (e)   Maintain their portion of the Plan in a current state of
readiness at all times.
   (L)   County-wide jurisdictions of Department of Emergency Management;
county emergency operations plan; and related official powers.
      (1)   Except as provided by Indiana Code, the jurisdiction of the County
Department of Emergency Management shall be:
         (a)   Inclusive county-wide; and
         (b)   Effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of
the county.
      (2)   The jurisdictions and applicability of the County Emergency
Management and Disaster Plan as adopted pursuant to Indiana Code, and the
exercise of any powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the county and the
County Commissioners under Indiana Code, shall be:
         (a)   Inclusive county-wide; and
         (b)   Effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of
the county.
      (3)   All incorporated areas of the county shall:
         (a)   If they develop internal plans, assure that those plans are
drafted subject to the requirements of the Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate internal plans with the Department of Emergency
Management;
         (c)   Assure inclusion of internal plans within the County Plan;
         (d)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County Plan;
and
         (e)   Maintain their portion of the Plan in a current state of
readiness at all times.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001; Ord. 2018-17, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 34.26 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This section shall apply whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3;
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Principal Executive Officer of the county pursuant to I.C. 10-
14-3-17 and Indiana Code;
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with Indiana Code; or
   (D)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the county’s
emergency plan and procedures in accordance with and to the extent necessary or
dispensable to such test.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.27 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   The Department of Emergency Management shall have the following
responsibilities prior to declaration of a disaster:
   (A)   The warning function as prescribed in the portion of the Plan;
   (B)   Assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the
county, including all cities and towns, as prescribed in the communications
portion of the Plan; and
   (C)   Assuring that mitigation, training and exercising have been performed.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.28 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In the event of actual or threatened enemy attack or disaster
affecting the county, the Principal Executive Officer of the county may:
      (1)   Declare a local disaster emergency;
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17;
      (3)   For any period; and
      (4)   Not to exceed seven days.
   (B)   The declaration shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Indicate the nature of the disaster;
      (3)   Indicate the conditions which have brought the disaster about;
      (4)   Indicate the area or areas threatened;
      (5)   Indicate the area or areas to which the state of emergency applies
(which may include the entire county or only designated parts thereof); and
      (6)   Be announced or disseminated to the general public by the best
means available.
   (C)   The declaration shall be filed in the offices of:
      (1)   The County Clerk;
      (2)   The County Auditor; and
      (3)   The Clerk of any incorporated municipality included in the declared
disaster area.
   (D)   The declaration shall not be invalidated nor ineffective if any of the
filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstance.
   (E)   Upon a declaration, the County Emergency Management and Disaster Plan
which has been adopted pursuant to Indiana Code or such several component parts
thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall be:
      (1)   Activated; and
      (2)   Implemented.
   (F)   Such a declaration shall not be necessary if the Governor, pursuant to
I.C. 10-14-3, has already proclaimed a statewide or area-wide state of
emergency including the county.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.29 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
CONVENTION OF EMERGENCY MEETING OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; SPECIAL MEETING
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   As soon as possible after a disaster emergency affecting the county is
declared either by the Governor or by the Principal Executive Officer of the
county, shall convene a meeting of the County Commissioners to perform their
legislative and administrative functions as the situation may demand.
   (B)   If the Principal Executive Officer fails or is unable to convene a
meeting as mandated above, the meeting shall be convened in accordance with
I.C. 36-2-2-8.
   (C)   Any such meeting of the Commissioners shall:
      (1)   Be deemed an emergency meeting;
      (2)   Be subject only to such procedural provisions of law as govern
emergency meetings of County Commissioners;
      (3)   Include relaxation of any applicable notice requirements pursuant
to I.C. 45-14-1.5-5(d);
      (4)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
      (5)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; and
      (6)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by circumstances.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.30 PLENIPOTENTIARY POWERS IN ABSENCE OF BOARD QUORUM.
   (A)   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be
assembled for purposes of the meeting required under Indiana Code, the
Principal Executive Officer of the county shall:
      (1)   Be considered a plenipotentiary rep-resentative of the Board;
      (2)   Have all powers of the full Board; and
      (3)   Take all actions of the full Board.
   (B)   When a quorum is assembled, such plenipotentiary powers shall cease.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.31 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under Indiana Code, the Commissioners may
exercise any of their normal executive and legislative powers to the extent
related to the emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
   (B)   In addition to the powers enumerated in Indiana Code, the Board may
also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers.
      (1)   The Commissioners may extend the period of a state of emergency
declared by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Indiana Code, to last more
than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency, except for
a state emergency declared by the Governor.
      (3)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces, including:
         (a)   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
         (b)   Participating emergency services; and
         (c)   Any other forces at the disposal of the Commissioners hereunder
for emergency management purposes.
      (4)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces which have been
activated pursuant to the Plan to the aid of the county, state, or political
subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. These volunteer forces shall be
under the direction of the Department of Emergency Management.
      (5)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety and welfare, the Commissioners may, to the extent
permitted by I.C. 10-41-25 and subject to its provisions, command services and/
or requisition the use of:
         (a)   Equipment;
         (b)   Facilities;
         (c)   Supplies; or
         (d)   Other property.
      (6)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe:
         (a)   Routes;
         (b)   Modes of transportation; and
         (c)   Evacuation destinations.
      (7)   The Commissioners may make provision for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing which need not necessarily comply with any minimum
housing standards, building or zoning regulations and the like, which would
govern the use and locations of premises for housing purposes during normal
times.
      (8)   The Commissioners may suspend, for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period as they determine), any provisions of or
procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they:
         (a)   Would be impractical during the emergency;
         (b)   Would interfere with the implementation and carrying out of
emergency plans; or
         (c)   Would be inimical to actions necessary to protect the public
safety and welfare.
      (9)   Except in accordance with Indiana Code hereinafter, the
Commissioners shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or procedures
which are mandated by statute.
      (10)   In the event of enemy attack, or when the state of emergency has
been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-
14-3-17, may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of county
ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, and pertaining to:
         (a)   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds;
         (b)   The incurring of obligations;
         (c)   The performance of public works;
         (d)   The entering into contracts;
         (e)   The employment of workers whose employment may be either:
            1.   Permanent; or
            2.   Temporary.
         (f)   The utilization of volunteer workers;
         (g)   The rental of equipment; and
         (h)   The purchase and distribution of:
            1.   Supplies;
            2.   Materials; and
            3.   Facilities.
      (11)   The Commissioners may assign any special emergency duties and
functions to county:
         (a)   Offices;
         (b)   Departments; and
         (c)   Agencies.
      (12)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and appropriated
but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may, within the scope
of each major budget and appropriation category (major object classification),
be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency
duties and functions.
      (13)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to implement and carry out the
provisions of the county’s or state’s plans.
         (a)   Such regulations shall not be effective until promulgated,
through either:
            1.   Written filing in the offices of the County Clerk and County
Auditor as required by I.C. 10-14-3-22; or
            2.   If filing is impossible, through conspicuous posting at two
public locations within the county.
         (b)   Such regulations shall have the full force of law and shall be
enforceable by any police officer in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3.
      (14)   The Commissioners may, in accordance with the Plan, request the
state or the United States or their agencies and political subdivisions to send
aid (including financial assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of
the regular and emergency county forces and resources.
   (C)   All actions and regulations under this section shall be:
      (1)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution; and
      (2)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Emergency Operations Plan.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.32 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Director shall make recommendations and advise the Board of
Commissioners or the Principal Executive Officer on any actions which it would
be necessary or desirable to take under Indiana Code in the event of any
emergency.
   (B)   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within
the county, and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor nor
is any person having the powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the
county present to declare such an emergency pursuant to Indiana Code, the
Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of emergency.
   (C)   When the Director temporarily presumes the existence of a state of
emergency, the Director shall:
      (1)   Put in to effect those portions of the Plan as necessary:
         (a)   To cope with the emergency; and
         (b)   To protect the public safety and welfare.
      (2)   Be construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing
so to the extent not specifically limited by statute or specifically limited
herein, until such time as a Chief Executive Officer becomes available;
      (3)   Have his or her functions performed by the Deputy Director to the
extent that the Deputy Director is required to assume the duties of the
Director, as provided by Indiana Code in the latter’s absence or incapacitation
during the emergency.
   (D)   Assistance from the Department of Emergency Management may be rendered
without a declaration of an emergency in order to assist local emergency
services in time of need.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.33 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF THE
COUNTY DURING EMERGENCY.
   During a declared emergency, all officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county shall cooperate with and give active support
to:
   (A)   The County Commissioners; and
   (B)   The County Emergency Management Director, comply with all orders
issued pursuant to this subchapter by:
      (1)   The County Commissioners; and
      (2)   The County Emergency Management Director.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.34 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all
existing inconsistent:
   (A)   Ordinances;
   (B)   Orders;
   (C)   Rules; and
   (D)   Regulations.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.35 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS; OBSTRUCTION
OR IMPERSONATIONS OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever this subchapter applies it shall be an unlawful and penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay the Commissioners, the Director
of Emergency Management, participating emergency services, authorized emergency
management volunteers or other authorities from implementing, carrying out and
enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations and procedures as made applicable to such person by
the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a County Emergency Management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer or the state, or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense described above.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.36 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY TESTS.
   During an emergency management test or declared emergency, the following
shall be immune from liability, to the extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3-5 and
any other applicable law:
   (A)   The county;
   (B)   Its assigned personnel;
   (C)   Participating emergency services; and
   (D)   Rostered volunteers.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.37 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY COMMANDEERED DURING EMERGENCY.
   Owners of property commandeered for the use in any emergency by any county
official shall be reimbursed for its use by the county, as the County Council
shall approve with regard to:
   (A)   Manner of compensation; and
   (B)   Amount of compensation.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense as described above shall be liable to a
fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however, to the discretion of the
court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1-4-1.3, passed 3-19-2001)
CHAPTER 35: FEES, TAX AND FINANCE
Section
County Funds, Generally
   
35.01   Public Employees Retirement Fund
   
35.02   Law Enforcement Fund
   
35.03   County Corrections Fund
   
35.04   Donations Fund; Emergency Management Department
   
35.05   Misdemeanant Fund election
   
35.06   [Reserved]
   
35.07   Donation fund for the county K-9 program
   
35.08   [Reserved]
   
35.09   [Reserved]
   
35.10   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.11   County Prosecutor’s Office Deferral Program Fund
   
35.12   Economic Development Fund; fee
   
35.13   Emergency Management Fund
   
35.14   Stormwater Quality Management Public Education and Outreach Fund
   
35.15   Flood Disaster Relief Fund
   
35.16   Cumulative Building Fund for the county courthouse
   
35.17   Partnership for Water Quality Fund
   
35.18   Campaign Finance Enforcement Fund
   
35.19   Auditor’s Ineligible Deduction Fund
   
35.20   Revenue from NACO drug card to go to General Fund
   
35.21   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.22   Prosecutor’s Federal Forfeiture Fund
   
35.23   Commissioner’s Tax Certificate Sale Fund
   
35.24   Employee Group Insurance Plan Fund
   
35.25   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
35.26   Cumulative Special Fire Fund
   
35.27   Drug Task Force Fund
   
35.28   County Sheriff’s SWAT Fund
   
35.29   County Sheriff’s Office Fund
County Fees, Generally
   
35.35   Payment of membership dues
   
35.36   Dishonored checks
   
35.37   Fees charged by Recorder
   
35.38   Fees to fax material to the County Clerk
   
35.39   Inmate processing fee
   
35.40   Fee for petition for removal of obstruction in mutual drains and
natural surface watercourses
   
35.41   Fee for endorsement of real property
   
35.42   Administrative fee; foreclosure sales conducted by the Sheriff
   
35.43   Annual sex or violent offender registration fee
   
35.44   Fee schedule for the copying of documents
   
35.45   Fees for electronic formatted data
   
35.46   County work release program fees
   
35.47   Bulk form copies; procedure and fees
   
35.48   Morgan County parks and recreation fees
   
35.49   Mass gathering license fee
   
35.50   Heritage barn annual public safety fee
   
35.51   Mobile home transfers and moving permits processing fee
County Taxes and Tax Provisions
   
35.60   Adjusted gross income tax
   
35.61   Inventory tax eliminated
   
35.62   Economic development income tax
   
35.63   Motor vehicle excise surtax and county wheel tax
   
35.64   Innkeeper’s tax
COUNTY FUNDS, GENERALLY
§ 35.01 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The County Council elects to become a participant in the Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund (I.C. 5-10.3-2) as established by the Acts of 1945,
Chapter 340, and all Acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The County Council agrees to make the required contributions under the
Public Employees’ Retirement Fund Act (I.C. 5-10.3-2), which is the Act of
1945, Chapter 340, and all Acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto,
“The Indiana Public Employees’ Social Security Integration and Supplemental
Retirement Benefit Act”.
   (C)   The positions listed on Appendix A, attached to the ordinance from
which this section is derived and maintained by the Auditor, are incorporated
herein by reference and made a part hereof and are declared to be covered by
the Fund.
   (D)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified in division (C) above are compensated on a fee basis or of an
emergency nature, or in a part-time category.
   (E)   The active participating membership of the county began on January 1,
1986.
(Ord. 1-1-2, passed 11-4-1985)
§ 35.02 LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A special fund known as the “Law Enforcement Fund” is hereby created.
   (B)   Proceeds from funds resulting from the enforcement of criminal laws
and proceeds under I.C. 34-4-30.1 and similar or related statutes, along with
voluntary surrender fees, reimbursement for restitution and other law
enforcement related fees recovered through or by the Office of the County
Prosecutor, shall be deposited in the Law Enforcement Fund in accordance with
existing law.
   (C)   The Law Enforcement Fund shall be subject to appropriation by the
county fiscal body, as by law provided.
   (D)   Monies may be appropriated from such fund for purposes such as
providing for and defraying expenses of the prosecuting attorney as associated
with the costs of proceedings associated with the seizure and offenses related
to such seizure, and for any other legitimate expenses for law enforcement
officers including the Prosecutor and Deputy Prosecutor, such as educational
expenses.
(Ord. 1-4-5.1, passed 3-5-1990)
§ 35.03 COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   The county elects to receive deposits from the County Corrections Fund
and such a fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The county elects to receive deposits under state law at level 3
funding, being $3,500 times the county’s base integer.
   (C)   Any money remaining in said fund at the end of any year shall not
revert to any other fund but shall remain in the County Corrections Fund.
   (D)   The county fiscal body shall administer the County Corrections Fund
for jail programs or other local correctional facilities in cooperation with
the courts of the county, the County Probation Department, the Sheriff of the
county, and the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (E)   This section is passed with the understanding that the State
Department of Correction may not receive any misdemeanants from this county
during the 12-month period after the date the Department of Correction deposits
funds in the County Fund.
(Ord. 1-2-8, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 35.04 DONATIONS FUND; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   A County Emergency Management Department “Donations Fund” is hereby
established and that the same shall be implemented as follows.
   (A)   All funds received as donations shall be deposited with the County
Treasurer and accounted for by the County Auditor.
   (B)   Funds donated for a specified purpose shall be earmarked for that
purpose and spent for no other purpose.
   (C)   If there is no specified purpose then such funds shall be deposited to
the County General Fund.
   (D)   The funds donated which are for a specific purpose shall not be
subject to budget or appropriation as is normally required for governmental
expenditures.
   (E)   The County Emergency Management Department shall be notified of the
passage of this section and shall forthwith deposit all donation funds held by
them to the Treasurer of the county, and to designate if the funds should be
earmarked for a particular purpose.
   (F)   All reference to the County Civil Defense both herein and in §
33.01 is hereby modified to change the title of the Department to County
Emergency Management Department.
(Ord. 1-2-10, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 35.05 MISDEMEANANT FUND ELECTION.
   (A)   The county elects to receive deposits from the County Misdemeanant
Fund and such a fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The county elects to receive deposits under state law at level 3
funding being the greater of:
      (1)   The sum determined by multiplying the total amount appropriated for
the County Misdemeanant Fund under state law by the county’s multiplier;
      (2)   The minimum allocation amount assigned to the county under state
law; or
      (3)   After state fiscal year 1999, the amount deposited by the
Department of Corrections in the Misdemeanant Fund for the county in state
fiscal year 1999.
   (C)   Any money remaining in said fund at the end of any year shall not
revert to any other fund but shall remain in the County Misdemeanant Fund.
   (D)   The county fiscal body shall administer the County Misdemeanant Fund
for jail programs or other local correction facilities in cooperation with the
courts of the county, County Probation Department, the Sheriff of the county
and the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (E)   This section is passed with the understanding that the State
Department of Corrections may not receive any misdemeanant from this county
during the 12-month period after the date the Department of Corrections
deposits funds in the County Fund.
(Ord. 1-4-7.5, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 35.06 [RESERVED].
§ 35.07 DONATION FUND FOR THE COUNTY K-9 PROGRAM.
   The County Sheriff’s Department “K-9 Fund” is hereby established and shall
be implemented as follows.
   (A)   All funds received as donations shall be deposited with the County
Treasurer and accounted for to the County Auditor.
   (B)   Disbursement shall be made from such fund by manner of claim by the
Department up to the amount of the fund or expenses of the program.
   (C)   The funds so deposited shall not be subject to budget or appropriation
as is normally required for governmental expenditures.
   (D)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall be notified of the passage of
this section, and shall forthwith deposit all donations held by them to the
Treasurer of the county.
(Ord. 1-2-13, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 35.08 [RESERVED].
§ 35.09 [RESERVED].
§ 35.10 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   A fund is established pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-5.1 to be known as the
county “Rainy Day Fund.” The Rainy Day Fund may receive funds from the
following sources:
      (1)   Transfers of unused and unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5.
      (2)   Funds provided to the county as a special distribution pursuant to
I.C. 6-3.6-9-17 by the Budget Agency of the State of Indiana.
      (3)   Reimbursement from any lawful source for monies appropriated and
spent from the Rainy Day Fund, in accordance with proper approvals from the
fiscal body of the county.
   (B)   The Rainy Day Fund is established with the intent that it may be
appropriated and utilized to alleviate a fiscal crisis, brought about by
unforeseen circumstances, which is reasonably likely to result in the county’s
inability to meet budgeted expenses and which crisis can not be reasonably
remedied through emergency appropriations or other means provided by statute.
   (C)   In any fiscal year, not more than 10% of the county’s total budget for
that fiscal year may be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (D)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to appropriation by the fiscal body of
the county. Before making any such appropriation, the fiscal body shall make a
finding that the proposed use of the appropriation from the Rainy Day Fund is
consistent with the intent of the fund.
(Ord. 1-2-18, passed 12-30-2002; Ord. 2016-6, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 2020-5,
passed 7-20-2020; Ord. 2022-1, passed 2-7-2022)
§ 35.11 COUNTY PROSECUTOR’S OFFICE DEFERRAL PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is established a County Prosecutor’s Office Diversion Program
Fund.
   (B)   All deferral program and pre-trial diversion program fees shall be
collected by the Clerk of the Court for the Martinsville City Court and the
Clerk of the Court for the Mooresville Town Court, and upon the claim by the
County Prosecutor, the fees are transferred to the County Auditor.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall deposit all funds received from the City of
Martinsville and the Town of Mooresville from the deferral program and the pre-
trial diversion programs into the County Prosecutor’s Office Diversion Program
Fund.
   (D)   The City of Martinsville and the Town of Mooresville may submit claims
for reimbursement of various costs of administering the programs from the
County Prosecutor’s Office Diversion Program Fund, all as set forth by written
agreement between the City of Martinsville, the Town of Mooresville and the
County Prosecutor’s Office.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5, any funds remaining in the County
Prosecutor’s Office Diversion Program Fund, after the satisfaction of all
claims as set forth in division (D) above, may be appropriated by the County
Council for the payment of salaries within the County Prosecutor’s Office, so
long as:
      (1)   The County Prosecutor certifies to the County Council that the
amount in the County Prosecutor’s Officer Program Diversion Fund exceeds the
amount to finance the Deferral and Pre-Trial Diversion programs during the
calendar year; and
      (2)   States the amount of the excess funds in his or her certification.
(Ord. 1-4-5.3, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 35.12 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND; FEE.
   (A)   The Economic Development Service Fund (the “Fund”) shall be
established as follows.
      (1)   The Fund shall be non-reverting.
      (2)   Any amounts earned upon the investment of the Fund shall become
part of the Fund.
      (3)   All economic development fees collected pursuant to this section
shall be deposited into the Fund.
      (4)   Upon appropriation by the County Council (the fiscal body of the
county) amounts in the Fund may be used by the county only for:
         (a)   The funding of the County Economic Development Corporation, a
non-profit organization established for the purpose of promoting the county-
wide economic development program; and
         (b)   No appropriations from the Fund shall be made until a county-
wide economic development program is developed by the County Economic
Development Corporation, with the cooperation of other local units within the
county; and
   (B)   An economic development fee shall be established as follows.
      (1)   The economic development fee shall be collected for all residential
subdivisions and any lot, tract or parcel of ten acres or less created in a
residential or agricultural zoning district in the county. The economic
development fee shall not apply to any lots, tracts or parcels created in any
business or industrial zoning district. For residential subdivisions, the fee
shall apply to each lot created.
      (2)   The economic development fee shall be in the sum of $50 residential
lot, tract or parcel and shall be collected by the County Auditor prior to
recording of a plat, deed or instrument creating the lot, tract or parcel.
      (3)   Upon payment of the fee, the Auditor shall provide the person
paying said fee a receipt evidencing payment of the fee.
      (4)   The fee shall only apply to residential lots, tracts or parcels
which were created and recorded after the effective date of this section and
shall not apply to the subsequent conveyance or transfer of said residential
lots.
      (5)   The amount of the fee may be altered or modified only by amendment
of this section by the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (C)   In the event a county-wide economic development program is not
established by the county economic development corporation prior to July 1,
2004, then this section shall be deemed repealed and any proceeds or sums held
in the Fund shall be appropriated by the County Council to any municipality or
governmental unit located within the county or any non-profit organization
located in the county for the purpose of promoting economic development within
the county and as designated by the Board of Commissioners; and, the Fund shall
then be terminated and the fee shall be discontinued, void and no longer
collected.
(Ord. 1-4-14.2, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 35.13 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established the County Emergency Management Sponsorship Fund
(“EMA Sponsorship Fund”), a non-reverting fund, for the purposes of receiving
donations and gifts for the purposes of emergency management and disaster
relief in the county, as follows.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county may accept from the state,
from the federal government through the state, or from any person, firm,
limited liability company, corporation or voluntary association services,
equipment, supplies, materials or funds, by way of gift, grant or loan for
purposes of emergency management or disaster relief, subject to the rules and
regulations of the agency making the offer pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-25. The
Board of Commissioners has sole discretion to accept any such gift, grant, loan
or donation on behalf of the EMA.
   (B)   Any funds received by gift may be deposited in the EMA Sponsorship
Fund, a non-reverting fund established for the purposes of emergency management
and disaster relief, and administered by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county shall separately account for monies received
by and expended from the EMA Sponsorship Fund.
   (D)   Appropriations from the EMA Sponsorship Fund may be by the County
Council so long as they are consistent with the purpose of the EMA Sponsorship
Fund, provided however, that they shall not exceed the amount of money in the
EMA Sponsorship Fund as shown by the records of the County Auditor.
   (E)   The EMA Director is hereby authorized to establish an Emergency
Management Sponsorship Program which provides sponsors with the ability to
display their company logo and name upon EMA ambulances in conjunction with
their donation and gift to the EMA. The EMA Sponsorship Program shall not
promote alcohol, tobacco, firearms, pornography, gaming, religious
organizations, political parties, political candidates, political advocacy or
issue groups or any other company, business, group or product which may be
offensive, inappropriate, distasteful or which may in any manner reflect poorly
upon the county. Any gifts or donations to the EMA Sponsorship Program must be
first accepted by the Board of Commissioners, as set forth in division (A)
above.
(Ord. 1-4-1.4, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 35.14 STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PUBLIC EDUCATION AND OUTREACH FUND.
   The County Stormwater Quality Management Public Education and Outreach Fund
is hereby established, as follows.
   (A)   There is established a non-reverting fund, which shall be known as the
“Morgan County Stormwater Quality Management Public Education and Outreach
Fund”. All fees or monies paid to and collected by the County Auditor under
this section shall be deposited in the fund shall remain apart and separate
from all other county funds. The fund shall not revert to the county for any
other purpose than those described in this section. The purpose of the fund is
to defray the expense of the development and administration of public education
and outreach programs for all MS4 entities in the county, including
Mooresville, Martinsville, Brooklyn and the Tri-County Conservancy District.
The County Council may only appropriate money from the fund for this purpose.
   (B)   All funds currently held by the OMCS for the purposes set forth above
shall be immediately transferred and deposited into the fund.
(Ord. 10-1-2, passed 8-31-2007)
§ 35.15 FLOOD DISASTER RELIEF FUND.
   (A)   The County Flood Disaster Relief Fund (hereinafter, the “Fund”) is
hereby established. All funds received as donations shall be deposited with the
County Treasurer and accounted for by the County Auditor. The Fund shall be a
non-reverting fund and all interest accrued shall become a part of the Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be used solely and exclusively for the benefit of
victims of the June 2008 flood. The funds donated for flood relief and
deposited into this Fund shall not be subject to budget or appropriation as is
normally required for governmental expenditures, but all expenditures shall be
authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The EMA shall be directed to deposit all donation funds held by the
EMA with the County Treasurer for deposit into the Fund.
(Ord. 1-2-26, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 35.16 CUMULATIVE BUILDING FUND FOR THE COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   The County Cumulative Building Fund for the county courthouse
(“Cumulative Courthouse Fund”) is hereby established for all such uses set
forth in I.C. 36-9-14-2.
   (B)   The Cumulative Courthouse Fund is established pursuant to I.C. 36-9-14
and the Board of Commissioners and the county shall adhere to the provisions of
I.C. 36-9-14.
   (C)   The Cumulative Courthouse Fund will not exceed $0.0110 on each $100 of
assessed valuation. The tax will be levied beginning with the taxes assessed
2008 and payable 2009.
   (D)   The proofs of publication of the public hearing held on July 7, 2008
and a certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the Department of
Local Government Finance of the state, as provided by law. The Cumulative
Courthouse Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(Ord. 1-2-25, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 35.17 PARTNERSHIP FOR WATER QUALITY FUND.
   (A)   There is established a non-reverting fund, which shall be known as the
County Partnership for Water Quality Fund. All fees or monies paid to and
collected by the County Auditor under this section shall be deposited in the
fund shall remain apart and separate from all other county funds. The fund
shall not revert to the county for any other purpose than those described in
this section. The purpose of the fund is to defray the expense of the
development and administration of co-permitting for all MS4 entities in the
county, including Mooresville, Martinsville, Brooklyn and the Tri-County
Conservancy District. The County Council may only appropriate money from the
fund for this purpose.
   (B)   All funds currently held by the OMCS for the purposes set forth above
shall be immediately transferred and deposited into the fund.
   (C)   All monies currently held by the county in the County Stormwater
Quality Management Public Education and Outreach Fund shall be immediately
transferred and deposited in the fund.
(Ord. 10-1-3, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 35.18 CAMPAIGN FINANCE ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The County Campaign Finance Enforcement Fund (hereinafter, the “Fund”)
is hereby established. All fines collected due to violations of I.C. 3-9-4-17
shall be deposited into the Fund by the County Treasurer and accounted for by
the County Auditor. The Fund shall be a non-reverting fund and does not revert
to the County General Fund at the end of a county fiscal year.
   (B)   Appropriations may be made from the Fund by the County Council in
order to augment and supplement the administration of I.C. 3-9.
(Ord. 1-2-29.1, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 35.19 AUDITOR’S INELIGIBLE DEDUCTION FUND.
   (A)   There is established the County Auditor’s Ineligible Deduction Fund
(“Fund”), a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   The deposits into the Fund shall be treated as miscellaneous revenue.
Distributions shall be made from the Fund upon appropriation by the County
Council and shall be made only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Fees and other costs incurred by the county auditor to discover
property that is eligible for a standard deduction under I.C. 6-1.1-12-37 or a
homestead credit under I.C. 6-1.1-20.9 (repealed);
      (2)   Other expenses of the Office of the County Auditor; and
      (3)   The cost of preparing, sending and processing notices described in
I.C. 6-1.1-22-8.1(b)(9) and checklists or notices described in I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-
12(d).
(Ord. 1-4-22, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 35.20 REVENUE FROM NACO DRUG CARD TO GO TO COUNTY GENERAL FUND.
   Revenue received from payments made by Caremark to the Treasurer of the
county shall be deposited by the Treasurer in the County General Fund.
(Ord. 1-2-32, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 35.21 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)    The County Cumulative Capital Development Fund (“Cumulative Capital
Development Fund”) is hereby established for all such uses set forth in I.C.
36-9-14.5.
   (B)   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund will not exceed $0.0333 on
each $100 of assessed valuation. The tax will be levied beginning with the
taxes assessed 2023 and payable 2024 and each year thereafter, continuing until
reduced or rescinded.
   (C)   The proofs of publication of the public hearing held on April 3, 2022
and a certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the Department of
Local Government Finance of the state as provided by law. The Cumulative
Capital Development Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(Ord. 1-2-33, passed 7-2-2012; Ord. 2023-9, passed 4-3-2022)
§ 35.22 COUNTY PROSECUTOR’S FEDERAL FORFEITURE FUND.
   (A)   The Morgan County Prosecutor’s Federal Forfeiture Fund (“Fund”) is
hereby established for all such uses as permitted by the program.
   (B)   The fund shall be a non-reverting Fund.
   (C)   Any funds deposited into the Fund shall not be subject to budget or
appropriation as is normally required for governmental expenditures.
   (D)   Any funds deposited into the Fund shall only be appropriated for
purposes permitted by the program or as otherwise provided by law.
   (E)   Any funds deposited into the Fund by means of a forfeiture generated
by the U.S. Department of Treasury, the U.S. Department of Justice, or any
other source other than the program shall be accounted for separately form
those funds deposited by reason of Morgan County’s participation in the
program.
(Ord. 1-2-34, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 35.23 COMMISSIONER’S TAX CERTIFICATE SALE FUND.
   The receipts to the Commissioner’s Tax Certificate Sale Fund may be used to:
   (A)   Pay the cost of the Commissioner’s sale;
   (B)   After the redemption period and the paying the cost of Commissioner’s
sale, to pay, to the extent possible, the delinquent taxes of the property that
was sold at the Commissioner’s sale;
   (C)   Pay the Commissioner’s sale purchaser, if the property that was sold
at the Commissioner’s sale is redeemed; or
   (D)   Pay a verified claim, if there is a Commissioner’s sale surplus on the
property that sold at the Commissioner’s sale.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-5-2016)
§ 35.24 EMPLOYEE GROUP INSURANCE PLAN FUND.
   The County Board of Commissioners establishes a perpetual non-reverting fund
to be known as the Morgan County Employee Group Insurance Plan Fund for the
purpose of receiving revenues and incurring expenses as follows.
   (A)   Revenues to be received as follows:
      (1)   November 30, 2018 trust fund balance of the terminated Morgan
County Group Insurance Trust transferred to the county on or after December 1,
2018 by the trustee of the Morgan County Group Insurance Trust.
      (2)   Employee and employer share of the Morgan County Group Insurance
Plan health, dental and vision insurance premiums.
      (3)   Health, dental and vision claim reimbursements.
      (4)   Money appropriated by the Morgan County Council and disbursed from
other funds of the county to the Morgan County Employee Group Insurance Plan
Fund.
      (5)   Donations.
   (B)   Expenses to be incurred as follows:
      (1)   Morgan County Group Insurance Plan health, dental and vision
claims.
      (2)   Morgan County Group Insurance Plan third party administrator
expenses.
      (3)   Morgan County Employee clinic operation and services expenses.
      (4)   Morgan County Employee Health and Wellness Program expenses.
      (5)   Other health and wellness expenses approved by the Morgan County
Group Health Insurance Board.
   (C)   Morgan County Employee Group Insurance Plan Fund can only be
terminated by ordinance of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-15-2018)
§ 35.25 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Source of funds. The Fund shall consist of monies received from the
Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, as provided for in the Act,
and for the purpose of providing additional relief to address the continued
impact of COVID-19 on the economy, public health, state and local governments,
individuals, and businesses.
   (B)   Accountable spending. The Commissioners hereby adopt the following
rules to ensure accountable spending:
      (1)   Any contract designated to use APRA funding, regardless of Council
appropriation must be approved and signed by the Commissioners.
      (2)   All claims for the disbursement of ARPA funds must be signed by a
Commissioner.
      (3)   A copy of all contracts and invoices shall be maintained by the
Auditor's office.
      (4)   Reports submitted to US Treasury are to be reviewed by the Auditor
prior to submittal and a printed copy with County Administrator's signature and
the County Auditor or Deputy Auditor's signature shall be retained.
   (C)   Use of funds. All money in the Fund will be used consistent with the
county’s ARP Plan and federal law for the following purposes:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency (“PHE”) concerning COVID-
19;
      (2)   Respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency;
      (3)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure; and
      (4)   Provide government services to the extent of the reduction in
revenue due to the public health emergency relative to revenue collected in the
most recent full fiscal year of the county prior to the emergency.
   (D)   Non-reverting fund. This is a non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 5-3-2021; Ord. 2023-10, passed 4-17-2023)
§ 35.26 CUMULATIVE SPECIAL FIRE FUND.
   (A)   The Cumulative Special Fire Fund is hereby established for all such
uses set forth in I.C. 36-8-14.
   (B)   The Board will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-14. The proposed
fund will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said tax rate
will be levied beginning with taxes for 2024 payable 2025.
   (C)   A certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the Department
of Local Government Finance of the state as provided by law. The tax rate for
this fund is subject to certification by the Department of Local Government
Finance.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-4-2024)
§ 35.27 DRUG TASK FORCE FUND.
   (A)   The creation of the Drug Task Force Donations Fund previously created
is hereby ratified and affirmed and shall be maintained as the Drug Task Force
Fund in order to appropriately reflect not only its use and purpose but also
the multiple sources of funds to be deposited as set forth herein.
   (B)   The sources of funds for the Drug Task Force Fund shall include but
not be limited to donations, grant funds earmarked for the use of the Drug Task
Force, and any funds appropriated for support of Drug Task Force operations. No
asset forfeiture funds will be deposited in the Drug Task Force Fund.
   (C)   Because the funds in the Drug Task Force Fund have been provided by
donation and grant award, no funds have been requested for appropriation or
need to be appropriated by the County Council.
   (D)   The proceeds from the Drug Task Force Fund may be used to purchase
equipment, supplies, and educational materials, as well as to pay overtime
wages and other reasonable operating expenses of the Drug Task Force.
   (E)   This section shall become effective immediately upon passage but
applies retroactively with respect to the ratifying and affirming provisions of
division (A) above.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024; Ord. 2024-29, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 35.28 COUNTY SHERIFF’S SWAT FUND.
   The County Sheriff's Department “SWAT Fund” is hereby established and shall
be implemented as follows:
   (A)   All funds received as donations shall be deposited with the County
Treasurer and accounted for to the County Auditor.
   (B)   Disbursements shall be made from this fund in accordance with standard
appropriation practices.
   (C)   The County Sheriff's Department shall be notified of the passage of
this section and shall deposit any donations to the County SWAT Program to the
County Treasurer for deposit in this fund.
(Ord. 2024-23, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 35.29 COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE FUND.
   The “County Sheriff's Office Fund” is hereby established and shall be
implemented as follows:
   (A)   All funds received as donations shall be deposited with the County
Treasurer and accounted for to the County Auditor.
   (B)   Disbursements shall be made from this fund in accordance with standard
appropriation practices.
   (C)   The County Sheriff's Department shall be notified of the passage of
this section and shall deposit any donations to the County Sheriff's Office
Fund to the County Treasurer for deposit in this fund.
(Ord. 2024-23, passed 11-4-2024)
COUNTY FEES, GENERALLY
§ 35.35 PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the General Fund or from other
funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and appointed
officials, and members of the county’s boards, Council, departments or agencies
in local, regional, state and national associations of a civic, educational, or
governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement
of county government operations.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is further authorized to budget and the
County Council is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay the expenses
of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(Ord. 1-2-2, passed 8-16-1982)
§ 35.36 DISHONORED CHECKS.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, the penalty fee for dishonored checks
submitted for payment to any office, department or agency of the county shall
be the sum of $25.
(Ord. 1-4-20, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 35.37 FEES CHARGED BY RECORDER.
   The County Recorder may authorize the purchase of photostatic copies of
official records at the Recorder’s Office directly from any processor or
developer who may be processing and developing photostatic copies of the
official records of the County Recorder’s Office pursuant to an agreement or
contract with the Recorder, upon the following basis.
   (A)   Any individual desiring to purchase copies of such records directly
from the supplier or developer shall first obtain the authority of the County
Recorder and sign an agreement that purchaser will not sell film or copies to
other companies or sales agents, and that microfilm purchased will be only for
use in title work with their specific company and client. The cost per frame is
$0.03, payable to the County Recorder.
   (B)   Upon such payment, the Recorder shall notify the processor or
developer and they may release and sell to such individual photostatic copies
as they may desire, or the Recorder has the option of having said copies sent
to them to be distributed; provided, however, it is covered by the payments
aforesaid.
   (C)   This does not prevent the processor or developer from charging
additional sums which he or she may find reasonable to cover his or her
expenses and costs of supplying copies to such person, nor does it prevent the
Recorder from charging additional sums they find reasonable to cover processing
such as shipping and processing/developing if it is sent to the Recorder to be
distributed.
   (D)   It should be unlawful for any processor or developer doing business
with or contracting with the county for such processing or photostatic copies
or official documents held by the Recorder of the county to sell or furnish
copies of such documents before first receiving authority from the County
Recorder.
   (E)   The County Recorder shall further charge the sum of $2 per copy for
copies of all other records furnished by the Recorder’s Office which are 18
inches by 24 inches or larger.
   (F)   The County Recorder shall furnish computer generated reports to
persons making a written request to include type of report and dates of report,
at a charge of $0.25 per computer page (eight and one-half inches by 11 inches)
for reports of 20 pages or more. Reports of 19 pages or less will be charged
the cost of $1 per page as set out by the State Board of Accounts.
   (G)   The revenue generated by such fees shall be paid to the County
Recorder and used in accordance with I.C. 32-2-7-10 and be deposited into the
Recorder’s Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 1-4-6, passed 2-5-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Bulk form copies, see §
35.47
§ 35.38 FEES TO FAX MATERIAL TO THE COUNTY CLERK.
   (A)   In accordance with said local court rule dated June 24, 1992, a fee of
$10 is hereby established for any of said courts in which any document or
material may be faxed to the County Clerk.
   (B)   Such fee of $10 must be paid to the County Clerk before any document
is faxed to the County Clerk.
   (C)   Such fee, when received, will be duly noted in the fee book for the
respective court under the appropriate case and cause number, and such funds
will be handled in the appropriate manner as required by state law, the
regulations of the State Board of Accounts and local county procedures.
   (D)   Such fee, when paid, shall cover all documents and material which may
be received to be filed in the cause to which such fee is credited.
   (E)   All documents and material so received shall, in all ways, comply with
such local court rule, and the Clerk shall do all acts necessary and proper to
implement such rule.
(Ord. 1-2-7, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 35.39 INMATE PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   An inmate processing fee shall be established in the sum of $25, which
shall be assessed by the County Sheriff each time a person is processed or
booked into the county jail.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall have the authority and discretion to waive
said fee in instances where the person booked into the county jail is indigent.
   (C)   The inmate processing fee shall be collected from all inmates who are
booked into the county jail on or after the effective date of this section.
   (D)   The inmate processing fee shall be collected by the County Sheriff
before the inmate is released from the county jail from any funds held on
deposit by the Sheriff in that inmate’s commissary fund, or may be paid
directly by or on behalf of the inmate.
   (E)   The funds collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into
the County General Fund.
(Ord. 1-2-10, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 35.40 FEE FOR PETITION FOR REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION IN MUTUAL DRAINS AND
NATURAL SURFACE WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   A fee in the sum of $25 shall be required as a condition of filing a
petition for the removal of an obstruction, as per I.C. 36-9-27.4 et seq. The
fee shall be collected by the County Surveyor or County Board of Commissioners
prior to taking any action on said petition.
   (B)   This section shall be effective upon passage.
   (C)   Fees collected under this section shall be deposited in the General
Drain Improvement Fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27-73.
(Ord. 1-4-16, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 35.41 FEE FOR ENDORSEMENT OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)    In accordance with I.C. 36-2-9-18(e), the Auditor of Morgan County,
Indiana shall collect a fee of $10 for each legal description of each parcel
contained in the deed for which the auditor makes a real property endorsement.
   (B)   Such fee shall be in addition to any other fee provided by law and
shall be placed in a dedicated fund for the use of maintaining plat books.
   (C)   The Auditor of Morgan County, Indiana shall have the authority to
collect a fee of $10 for each legal description of each parcel contained in the
deed for which the auditor makes a real property endorsement. Such fee shall be
in addition to any other fee provided by law and shall be placed in a dedicated
fund for the use of maintaining plat books. This section shall be effective
July 1, 2019.
(Ord. 1-2-22, passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 2019-5, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 35.42 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE; FORECLOSURE SALES CONDUCTED BY THE SHERIFF.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 32-29-7-3, there is established an administrative fee
to be charged by the County Sheriff for the administration of mortgage
foreclosure sales in the county in the sum of $175 for each foreclosure sale.
This fee authorized herein shall be payable by the person seeking to enforce
the judgment and decree and shall be paid at the time of the filing of the
praecipe under I.C. 32-29-7-3(b).
   (B)   The fees collected by the Sheriff shall be deposited into the County
General Fund and may only be appropriated for operating expenses of the County
Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 1-2-23, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 1-2-23.1, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 35.43 ANNUAL SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION FEE.
   The sex or violent offender registration fee, the sex or violent offender
address change fee and the County Sex or Violent Offender Administration Fund
are hereby established, as follows.
   (A)   Establishment of Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund. The
County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund is hereby established. The
purpose of the fund is to defray the expense of administering or ensuring
compliance with the laws concerning the state sex and violent offender
registry. The County Council may appropriate money from the fund for this
purpose.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Registration fee. The annual fee for sex or violent offenders
registering in the county shall be $50. Payment of the fee shall be made upon
the offender’s initial registration in the county and subsequently on or before
each annual registration date.
      (2)   Change of address fee. A fee of $5 shall be charged and collected
each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   Payment of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff’s Department when a sex or violent offender
registers with the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   Procedures. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff’s Department shall be transferred to the County Auditor. On a monthly
basis, the County Auditor shall: deposit 90% of any fees collected under this
section in the County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund; and
transfer 10% of any fees collected under this section to the state for deposit
in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
(Ord. 1-4-7.8, passed 8-20-2007)
§ 35.44 FEE SCHEDULE FOR THE COPYING OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Fees charged for the copying of all documents by all county offices,
departments and agencies shall be as set forth on the fee schedule, contained
in the Appendix maintained in the County Auditor’s office, which is adopted
herein by reference and made a part hereof as if appearing in total.
   (B)   Fees for copies of accident reports by the County Sheriff’s Department
shall not be assessed for copies made at the request of any governmental body,
agency, office or department.
   (C)   Fees collected by the County Sheriff’s Department shall, at least
monthly, be paid over to the County Treasurer and deposited into a fund set up
by the County Treasurer in accordance with state law and I.C. 5-14-3-8(d).
(Ord. 1-2-8b, passed 3-1-2004; Ord. 1-2-8b, passed 8-29-2008; Ord. 1-2-8c,
passed 7-4-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Bulk form copies, see §
35.47
§ 35.45 FEES FOR ELECTRONIC FORMATTED DATA.
   (A)   Fee schedule. A schedule of fees is established for the county which
shall specify all fees which may be charged to provide a copy, duplicate
records and records contained in an electronic medium and to provide a copy
and/or an electronic map. The fee schedule shall apply to all county agencies
and departments. The fees established herein shall be uniform to all
purchasers.
   (B)   Payment of fees. Payment of any fee established by this section shall
be made in advance; however, an office may agree to payment at the time of
delivery or to invoice a person or entity for the charge if that person or
entity has promptly paid invoices in the past. Any person, or his or her
designee, requesting the data or copy shall be liable for the total charges for
the request. Any person, or his or her designee, who fails to pay any fees or
charges herein shall be liable for the fees and charges, together with interest
at the rate of 1.50% per month, reasonable attorney fees and all costs
associated with any collection effort by the county or office.
   (C)   Restrictions of use of data. No person, other than those authorized by
the county, may reproduce, store, grant access, deliver or sell information
obtained from any department or office of the county to any other person,
partnership, corporation or entity for commercial purposes. In addition, any
person who receives information from the county shall not be permitted to use
any mailing lists, addresses or data bases for the purpose of selling,
advertising or soliciting the purchase of merchandise, goods or services. A
person who uses information in a manner contrary to the terms of this section
may be prohibited from obtaining a copy or any further data subject to this
section. A copy of the preceding restriction shall be conspicuously posted in
all offices where electronic data is provided or sold.
   (D)   Violations and enforcement. Any person who violates any term or
condition of this section by failing to pay fees or charges or who violates the
terms of division (C) above, shall be guilty of an infraction and may be fined
upon to and including the sum of $2,500 for each violation. In the event there
is a violation of division (C) above, each separate violation shall be deemed a
separate offense. A person, governmental unit or political subdivision who has
a dispute or seeks relief from any of the terms or conditions of this section
may seek relief before the Commissioners, who may grant such relief as in their
discretion may be appropriate.
   (E)   Electronic Map Generation Fund. The County Electronic Map Generation
Fund, a non-reverting fund, is hereby established. All fees collected for
providing an electronic map shall be deposited into the Fund. All funds in the
Fund shall be used and dedicated for the purposes as set forth in I.C. 5-14-3-
8.3 and shall be appropriated by the County Council. The Fund shall not revert
to the county for any other purpose than those described in this section.
   (F)   Governmental units and political sub-divisions. Any governmental unit
or political subdivision which has provided electronic data used by the county
to create the electronic data covered by this section shall receive copies of
the data for that unit or political subdivision’s exclusive use, free from
charge.
   (G)   Conflict with state law. Nothing herein shall compel any office or
department of the county to charge a fee for copies or duplicate records if the
fee imposed by this section is contrary to laws of the state. In the event the
fees in this section are contrary or shall conflict with the laws of the state,
the laws of the state shall control.
(Ord. 1-2-8.1, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 35.46 COUNTY WORK RELEASE PROGRAM; FEES.
   (A)   Work release intake fee. A work release intake fee (“intake fee”)
shall be assessed by the County Sheriff to all persons processed by or enrolled
in the County Work Release Program (“Program”), as follows.
      (1)   The intake fee shall be in the sum of $75 for a resident of the
county, and $175 for nonresidents.
      (2)   The intake fee shall be payable upon acceptance into the Program
and prior to commencement of Program.
      (3)   The intake fee shall be collected by the County Sheriff upon such
terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Sheriff.
   (B)   The County Work Release Intake Fee Fund.
      (1)   There shall be established the County Work Release Intake Fee Fund
(“Intake Fee Fund”). All intake fees received by the Sheriff shall be deposited
into the Intake Fee Fund, a non-reverting fund.
      (2)   Appropriations may be made from the Intake Fee Fund for the
following purposes: to offset the cost of materials and supplies used for the
operation of the work release center.
   (C)   Supervision fees.
      (1)   (a)   The Sheriff shall collect a daily fee from each person
enrolled in the Program, which fee shall be the greater of:
            1.   Ten dollars per day; or
            2.   An amount equivalent to one hour of wages for the person per
day.
         (b)   In addition to the daily fees set forth above, each person
enrolled in the Program shall reimburse the county for meals in the sum of
$1.50 for each meal.
      (2)   All sums collected under this section shall be known as supervision
fees, shall be collected by the County Sheriff and shall be deposited into the
County General Fund. The sums collected under this section are for room and
board, pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-3(a)(4).
   (D)   General provisions.
      (1)   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this section of any
other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this section. Those rights, liabilities and proceedings are
continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this section had not been adopted.
      (2)   No part of this section shall be interpreted to conflict with any
local, state or federal laws, and all reasonable efforts should be made to
harmonize same. Should any section or part thereof of this section be declared
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole, or any other portion thereof
other than that portion so declared to be invalid, and for this purpose the
provisions of this section are hereby declared to be severable.
      (3)   This section shall be effective upon passage according to law.
(Ord. 1-2-31, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 1-2-31.1, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 35.47 BULK FORM COPIES; PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
      (1)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month or year;
      (2)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
      (3)   Both divisions (1) and (2) above.
   BULK USER. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability
company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form copies under
a contract with the County Recorder.
   COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a Recorder document or indices
created by:
      (1)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum, or
any other medium of electronic data storage; or
      (2)   Reproducing on microfilm.
   INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
   RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a survey,
or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the public
records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee.
   (B)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
County Recorder may provide bulk form copies to a bulk user:
      (1)   On a disk, tape, drum, or any other medium of electronic data
storage or microfilm;
      (2)   By electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic
transfer process; or
      (3)   Under both divisions (B)(1) and (2).
   (C)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. A bulk user must submit a
written request to the County Recorder that identifies the requested bulk form
copies with reasonable particularity. Unless the request is refused under
division (F), upon receipt of a valid written request the County Recorder or
the County Recorder’s designee shall provide the bulk form copies to the bulk
user by the method or methods established by ordinance.
      (1)   The bulk form copies shall be provided within a reasonable time
after the later of the following events:
         (a)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed and bulk form
copies become available in the County Recorder’s office.
         (b)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the
requirements of division (E) with:
            1.   The County Recorder; and
            2.   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder’s designee.
      (2)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
   (D)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
      (1)   (a)   Ten cents ($0.10) per page for a copy of a recorded document,
including the instrument’s book and page, if applicable.
         (b)   Ten cents ($0.10) per recorded document for a copy of the
indices used by the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a
recorded document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month.
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder’s records perpetuation fund and used
by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f).
         (d)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (D)(1) immediately above.
   (E)   Bulk user contract; termination.
      (1)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder and
if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services, the
County Recorder’s designee, in order to receive bulk form copies.
         (a)   The contract must be in writing and must require that the bulk
user agree not to do any of the following:
            1.   Except as provided in division (F), provide, transfer, or
allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk user
under this section to a third party.
            2.   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents.
            3.   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
         (b)   A contract required under this division (E)(1) may not include
any restrictions on a bulk form user’s use of the bulk form copies other than
those contained in this section.
      (2)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by the bulk user
if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by
the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a
bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract.
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest; and:
            1.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
            2.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (F)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or
holds a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form
copies related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-
7-3-2) when operating as:
            1.   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as defined
in I.C. 27-7-3-2); or
            2.   A title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
         (b)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division (F)(1)
may charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the
bulk user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining
the bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division
(F)(1) may not resell, provide, transfer or allow the transfer of any copy of a
recorded document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to
any other bulk user or title plant.
      (2)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (F)(1)
immediately above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising
for sale, soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription
service to, or otherwise transferring, providing, or allowing the transfer of
bulk form copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies
are in bulk form or individual copies or images.
   (G)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any county ordinances promulgated
thereunder.
   (H)   Effective date. Upon adoption and signature, this section shall become
effective on August 7, 2017.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 8-7-2017)
Cross-references:
   Fee schedule for the copying of documents, see §
35.44
   Fees charged by Recorder, see §
35.37
§ 35.48 MORGAN COUNTY PARKS AND RECREATION FEES.
   (A)   Policy and purpose of county park facilities. It shall remain the
policy of the county that the primary purpose of the county park facilities is
that they are to be used and enjoyed by the citizens of Morgan County, and our
guests and visitors, by providing unique opportunities for education,
fellowship, physical fitness, historical preservation, and many other uses, all
in a setting that demonstrates the natural beauty of the county.
   (B)   Regular daily use by the public free of charge. Except for events with
high-volume attendance and for private events or functions, as both such
exceptions are further described below, the typical daily use of facilities
owned by the county and operated as public parks shall remain available for use
to the public free of any user fees or charges.
   (C)   Fees charged during certain festivals.
      (1)   Any and all fees collected in accordance with the provisions of
this § 35.48 shall be delivered to the Morgan County Treasurer and deposited
into the Parks Department Fund.
      (2)   There are three events conducted annually at Old Town Waverly
Park—Old Town Waverly Park Festival; The Haunting in the Park; and Santa in the
Park—that attract a large number of attendees and continues to grow every year.
In order to sustain these events and continue to expand the offerings and
services of the county park facilities, the following nominal fee(s) and
related process(es) shall be imposed on some attendees at these three events,
as follows:
         (a)   User fees shall be charged for hay rides at the aforementioned
events at the rate of $10 for each adult and $5 for each child.
         (b)   User fees shall be charged for golf cart rides at the
aforementioned events at the rate of $3 per person.
         (c)   For-profit food vendors shall complete an application, which
includes an agreement that they abide by certain space and size limitations,
obtain insurance, among other reasonable requirements, and that they shall also
pay a non-refundable fee in the sum of $50 at the time they submit their
application.
         (d)   For-profit craft vendors, or any other vendor permitted to
engage in the sale of goods at the park during these events, shall complete an
application, which includes an agreement that they abide by certain space and
size limitations, obtain insurance, among other reasonable requirements, and
that they shall also pay a non-refundable fee in the sum of $30 at the time
they submit their application.
      (3)   County parks may also organize and hold community sale event(s),
such as a community yard sale or flea market. Any person who desires to
participate in said event(s) by having a booth to sell goods shall complete an
application provided by the Parks Department and pay a user fee of $20 per
booth.
      (4)   The county and its Parks Department also has a standard practice of
offering certain facilities as available for use by the public for private
events, such as family reunions, baby showers, and other social functions.
      (5)   The county park facilities available for such use are:
         (a)   Wilbur School.
         (b)   Burkhart Creek Park, Pierce Shelter.
         (c)   Burkhart Creek Park, Duckworth Wildland Shelter.
         (d)   Old Town Waverly, Square Gazebo.
         (e)   Old Town Waverly, Art Wall Gazebo.
         (f)   Old Town Waverly, Town Square.
      (6)   The use for private events, as described above, is subject to
certain terms and conditions, as follows:
         (a)   The facilities are rented on a first come, first serve basis.
         (b)   An individual must complete and submit an application supplied
by the Morgan County Parks Department or the Office of the Board of
Commissioners.
         (c)   Applicants must also provide proof of sufficient liability
insurance coverage.
         (d)   At the time of submission of their application, an applicant
will submit a rental fee and damage deposit as follows:
            1.   For Morgan County residents to use a facility for a private
event that will not include the consumption of alcoholic beverages, a rental
fee in the sum of $50 per day and a damage deposit in the sum of $50 per day.
            2.   For individuals who are not residents of Morgan County, but
who desire to use a facility for a private event that will not include the
consumption of alcoholic beverages, a rental fee in the sum of $100 per day and
a damage deposit in the sum of $100 per day.
            3.   For any applicant who desires to rent a facility for a private
event that will include the consumption of alcoholic beverages, a rental fee in
the sum of $25 per day and a damage deposit in the sum of $400 per day.
(Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-5-2022; Ord. 2023-12, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 35.49 MASS GATHERING LICENSE FEE.
   The Secretary of the Board of Commissioners shall collect a fee in the
amount of $200 for the submission of any application for a mass gathering
license in accordance with I.C. 16-41-22 and Chapter 93.
(Ord. 2020-11b, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35.50 HERITAGE BARN ANNUAL PUBLIC SAFETY FEE.
   (A)   The Council adopts an annual public safety fee in the amount of $25
that shall be paid by the owner of the property upon which any such heritage
barn is located, for any year in which the owner has timely applied for and
obtained the heritage barn property tax deduction, in accordance with I.C. 6-
1.1-12-26.2 et seq.
   (B)   The Auditor shall distribute said fees equitably among the police and
fire departments in whose territories each such heritage barn is located.
   (C)   This section shall take effect on January 1, 2022 and shall remain in
effect until such time as it is repealed by the Council or I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2
et seq. is repealed by the Legislature.
(Ord. 2021-15, passed 12-21-2021)
§ 35.51 MOBILE HOME TRANSFERS AND MOVING PERMITS PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   A fee in the amount of $15 shall be assessed by the Morgan County
Treasurer for each mobile home moving permit or transfer of title permit issued
by the Treasurer.
   (B)   Such fee shall be paid at, or prior to, the time of the request, in
cash, or by check or money order, made payable and delivered to the Treasurer
of Morgan County and shall be deposited in the Morgan County General Fund.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-17-2023)
COUNTY TAXES AND TAX PROVISIONS
§ 35.60 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Adjusted gross income tax rate to fund property tax replacement
amounts.
      (1)   (a)   The county hereby imposes an additional county adjusted
income tax rate to raise income tax revenue to provide the replacement amount.
         (b)   Based upon calculations provided to the county by the Department
of Local Government Finance, the Year 1 Rate imposed in the county from October
1 of the year in which it is imposed through September 30 of the following year
is 0.20%.
         (c)   Based upon calculations provided to the county by the Department
of Local Government Finance, the Replacement Rate imposed in the county from
October 1 of the year following year through September 30 of the year after the
following year is 0.20%.
         (d)   The replacement rate may not otherwise be decreased or
rescinded.
      (2)   The rate imposed by this section is in addition to any other tax
rates imposed under state law and does not affect the purposes for which other
tax revenue may be used.
      (3)   This section takes effect October 1, 2007.
      (4)   The County Auditor shall provide a certified copy of this section
to the Department of Revenue and the Department of Local Government Finance by
certified mail.
   (B)   Adjusted gross income tax to provide property tax relief. The county
adjusted gross income tax rate shall be increased as follows.
      (1)   The county hereby imposes an additional county adjusted gross
income tax rate of 1% to raise income tax revenue to provide property tax
relief to political subdivisions in the county.
      (2)   Property tax relief shall take the form designated by the Council
      (3)   The rate imposed by this section is in addition to any other tax
rates imposed under state law and does not affect the purposes for which other
tax revenue may be used.
      (4)   This section shall take effect on October 1, 2007.
      (5)   The County Auditor shall provide a certified copy of this section
to the Department of Revenue and the Department of Local Government Finance by
certified mail.
   (C)   Imposing an additional rate of the county adjusted gross income tax to
fund public safety costs. The county adjusted gross income tax rate shall be
increased as follows.
      (1)   The county hereby imposes an additional rate of the county adjusted
gross income tax at the rate of 0.25% to provide funding for public safety in
the county (“Public Safety Rate”).
      (2)   The County Auditor shall distribute income tax revenues
attributable to the public safety rate to the county and to each municipality
in the county. The amount distributed to the county or
municipality is equal to the result of the portion of the income tax revenues
attributable the public safety rate; multiplied by a fraction equal to:
         (a)   The attributed allocation amount of the county or municipality
for the calendar year; divided by
         (b)   The sum of the attributed allocation amounts of the county and
each municipality in the county for the calendar year.
      (3)   The rate imposed by this section is in addition to any other tax
rates imposed under state law and does not affect the purposes for which other
tax revenue may be used.
      (4)   This section shall take effect on October 1, 2007.
      (5)   The County Auditor shall send a certified copy of this section to
the Department of State Revenue and the Department of Local Government Finance
by certified mail.
(Ord. 1-2-20.4, passed 7-24-2007; Ord. 1-2-20.5, passed 7-24-2007; Ord. 1-2-
20.6, passed 7-24-2007)
§ 35.61 INVENTORY TAX ELIMINATED.
   (A)   A deduction is hereby authorized and created to apply to the assessed
value of inventory located in the county. The deduction shall be equal to 100%
of the assessed value of inventory located in the county for the appropriate
year of assessment.
   (B)   The deduction set forth above shall apply to inventory assessed
beginning in year 2003 and each year thereafter.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   INVENTORY. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-3-11; and
      (2)   ASSESSED VALUE OF INVENTORY. The assessed value determined after
the application of any deductions or adjustments that apply by statute or rule
to the assessment of inventory, other than the deduction created above.
   (D)   A certified copy of this section shall be provided to the Department
of Local Government Finance prior to February 1, 2003.
(Ord. 1-2-19, passed 12-30-2002)
§ 35.62 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The County Council increases the economic development income tax
rate imposed on the county taxpayers of the county, from 0.07% to 0.27%. This
tax takes effect July 1 of this year (2004).
      (2)   The original county economic development tax rate of 0.07%, imposed
by the County Council on March 3, 2003, shall remain as the rate imposed
pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-5(p), which is the allowed amount necessary to
mitigate the increased ad valorem property taxes on homesteads, (as defined in
I.C. 6-1.1-12-37) resulting from:
         (a)   The deduction of the assessed value of inventory in the county,
authorized by virtue of an Ordinance of the County Council adopted on December
30, 2002 and effective as to the inventory assessed in years 2003, 2004 and
2005; and
         (b)   The deduction of the assessed value of inventory in the county
by virtue of the statewide deduction of inventory pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12-42.
      (3)   The county economic income tax rate authorized by the County
Council on March 3, 2003 and referenced in this division (A) shall be
administered and applied as set forth in the state statutes, and this section.
      (4)   The amount of the county income tax rate imposed that exceeds the
maximum rate applicable under I.C. 6-3.5-7-5(b) and the combined rates of the
county economic development income tax and county adjusted gross income tax
applicable under I.C. 6-3.5-7-5(c), are imposed pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-5(p)
and shall be administered consistent with I.C. 6-3.5-7-5(p) and I.C. 6-3.5-7-5
(q).
      (5)   The revenue deposited into the County Economic Development Income
Tax Fund which results from the increase in the county economic development tax
rate authorized by this section shall be used, upon appropriation by the County
Council, as set forth in I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1, except that not more than 5% of
revenues shall be used to support the County Economic Development Corporation.
      (6)   The Auditor shall record all votes taken on ordinances presented
under the authority of I.C. 6-3.5-7 and shall, not more than ten days after the
vote, send a certified copy of the results to the Commissioner of Department of
State Revenue, by certified mail.
   (B)   Distribution of certified shares from the county economic development
income tax pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-12b(c).
      (1)   The certified distribution made by the County Auditor for the
revenue derived from the collection of county economic development income tax
pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-12b(c).
      (2)   Providing property tax relief shall take the form designated by the
Morgan County Council.
      (3)   This section does not apply to distributions made by the County
Auditor under I.C. 6-3.5-7-26, which set forth the distributions to be made for
the homestead credit replacement portion of the county economic development
tax.
      (4)   This section shall be effective beginning January 1, 2005.
      (5)   The Auditor shall record all votes taken on ordinances presented
under the authority of I.C. 6-3.5-7 and shall, not more than ten days after the
vote, send a certified copy of the results to the Commissioner of Department of
State Revenue, by certified mail.
   (C)   To provide for the allocation of homestead credits pursuant to I.C. 6-
3.5-7-26(c)(3)(b). Reserved.
(Ord. 1-2-20.1, passed 3-15-2004; Ord. 1-2-20.2, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 1-2-
20.3, passed 12-19-2005)
§ 35.63 MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE SURTAX AND COUNTY WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2014, and until further amended by ordinance, all
passenger vehicles, trucks with a declared gross weight that does not exceed
11,000 pounds and motorcycles registered in the county, and that are now
subject to an excise tax, shall also be subject to an annual excise surtax in
the sum of $25 per vehicle, to be paid with the registration of said motor
vehicles.
   (B)   Beginning January 1, 2014, and until further amended by ordinance, all
of the following eight classes of motor vehicles registered in the county shall
be subject to an annual wheel tax at the rate of $40 to be paid with the
registration of said vehicles:
      (1)   Schedule for wheel tax: This schedule is contained in Appendix A,
adopted herein by reference and made a part hereof as if appearing in total, is
on file in the County Auditor’s office.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BUSES, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, SEMITRAILER, TRACTOR, TRAILER and TRUCK
shall have the meanings as set forth in I.C. 6-3.5-5-1.
         HEAVY TRAILERS. A trailer with a declared gross weight of 16,000
pounds or greater.
         HEAVY TRUCKS. A truck with a declared gross weight of 30,000 pounds or
greater.
         LIGHT TRAILERS. A trailer with a declared gross weight not to exceed
16,000 pounds.
         LIGHT TRUCKS. A truck with a declared gross weight not to exceed
26,000 pounds.
      (3)   As provided in I.C. 6-3.5-5-4, the following vehicles are exempt
from the annual wheel tax: a vehicle owned by the state; a vehicle owned by a
state agency of the state; a vehicle owned by a political subdivision of the
state; a bus owned and operated by a religious or nonprofit youth organization
and used to haul persons to religious services or for the benefit of their
members; and a vehicle subject to the excise surtax, as set forth above.
   (C)   Beginning on January 1, 2005, the excise surtax and wheel tax
collected on motor vehicles in the county shall be distributed as provided in
I.C. 6-3.5-4-13 and I.C. 6-3.5-5-15 to the county, and the cities and towns of
the county by the County Auditor. The County Auditor shall establish a “County
Surtax Fund” and a “County Wheel Tax Fund” for the deposit of surtax and wheel
tax revenues.
   (D)   The county and any city or town of the county may only use the excise
surtax revenues it receives under this section to construct, reconstruct,
repair or maintain streets and roads under the unit’s jurisdiction.
   (E)   The county and the cities or towns of the county may only use the
wheel tax revenues it receives under this section to construct, reconstruct,
repair or maintain streets and roads under the unit’s jurisdiction; or, as a
contribution to an authority established under I.C. 36-7-23.
   (F)   A copy of this section shall be sent to the Commissioner of the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 1-2-21, passed 3-15-2004; Ord. 1-2-21.1, passed 5-2-2011; Ord. 1-2-21.2,
passed 6-12-2013)
§ 35.64 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   Beginning November 1, 2010, there shall be established the county
innkeeper’s tax (the “tax”), at the rate of 5% on all gross retail income
derived from lodging subject to the tax within the county.
   (B)   The tax shall be on every person engaged in the business of renting or
furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any room or rooms, lodgings or
accommodations in any of the following located in the county:
      (1)   Hotel;
      (2)   Motel;
      (3)   Boat motel;
      (4)   Inn;
      (5)   College or university memorial union;
      (6)   College or university residence hall or dormitory; or
      (7)   Tourist cabin.
   (C)   The tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which:
      (1)   A student rents lodgings in a college or university residence hall
while that student participates in a course of study for which the student
receives college credit from a college or university located in the county;
      (2)   A person rents a room, lodging or accommodations for a period of 30
days or more; or
      (3)   A not-for-profit entity that rents a room or provides
accommodations to a student, a participant or a person accompanying a student
or participant engaged in educational or therapeutic activities conducted by
the entity subject to the tax.
   (D)   The tax shall be reported on forms approved by the County Treasurer
and shall be paid monthly to the Treasurer. The tax shall be paid to the
Treasurer no more than 20 days after the end of the month the tax is collected.
   (E)   The tax is in addition to the state gross retail tax imposed under
I.C. 6-2.5.
   (F)   There shall be established the “Morgan County Convention, Visitors and
Tourism Promotion Fund” (the “Fund”) for the deposit of revenues generated by
the tax. Money in the Fund may be expended only to promote and encourage
conventions, visitors and tourism within the county. Expenditures may include,
but are not limited to, expenditures for advertising, promotional activities,
trade shows, special events and recreation and may be used to pay all expenses
of the County Convention, Visitors and Tourism Commission.
   (G)   A certified copy of this section shall be sent to the Commissioner of
the State Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 1-2-30, passed 9-3-2010; Ord. 1-2-30.1, passed 11-7-2011; Ord. 1-2-21.2,
passed 6-12-2013)
CHAPTER 36: JAIL/INMATE PROVISIONS
Section
   
36.01   Extradition of prisoners
   
36.02   Medical care (co-payment); county jail inmates
§ 36.01 EXTRADITION OF PRISONERS.
   (A)   The following procedure is hereby set up to withdraw money from and
obtain advances from the Extradition Fund set up under I.C. 35-33-14.
   (B)   Any individual duly authorized by the court with the proper
jurisdiction to return a prisoner to the state shall be reimbursed for
reasonable expenses so incurred by filing a claim with the Auditor of the
county enumerating expenses so incurred and supported by reasonable
documentation of such expenses other than those for which presumptions are
established under this section or according to the statutes of the state.
   (C)   In event the person duly designated by the court of competent
jurisdiction to return a prisoner to the state wishes an advance for expenses
anticipated in obtaining such prisoner’s return to the state and to the county,
he or she shall follow the following procedure: that after the prosecuting
attorney has filed the petition, as set forth by statute, before the court of
proper jurisdiction, and the court has authorized the return of such prisoner
and designated an agent to return such prisoner, the agent may make a written
petition to the Auditor of the county setting forth the following information:
      (1)   The name of the agent;
      (2)   The court having jurisdiction over such cause including the cause
number out of such court;
      (3)   The petition of the prosecuting attorney asking that such prisoner
be returned;
      (4)   The order of the court authorizing such return;
      (5)   The location where such prisoner is being held or to which the
agent will have to go to obtain said prisoner to be returned to the county;
      (6)   The method of transportation that the agent selects to go to and
from the point where said prisoner is being held or to which the agent will
need to go to pick up such prisoner;
      (7)   The mileage to and from such point;
      (8)   When the agent intends to leave and what date he or she expects to
pick up such prisoner for his or her return to the county; and
      (9)   Any other information which the Auditor determines is necessary to
process the claim for such advancement.
   (D)   The Auditor shall review such petition and can make any independent
inquiry which he or she deems necessary to determine its validity.
   (E)   If the Auditor determines such petition to be valid, the Auditor may
advance the following sums to the Agent:
      (1)   The entire cost of air fare at the lowest available rate, if the
agent elects to go by air, for the agent to and from such location and for the
prisoner one way to return. The air fare shall be determined by the actual cost
of such air fare;
      (2)   In event the agent elects to go to and from such point by personal
automobile, he or she shall be advanced the sum to be determined by multiplying
the number of miles to and from the location where such prisoner is to be
picked up by the state rate of reimbursement for in-state and out-of-state
travel;
      (3)   Additionally, the agent shall be advanced $50 per day for lodging
for each day the agent anticipates he or she will be gone from the county. For
these purposes, it shall be presumed that the agent will be gone one day for
each 500-mile fraction thereof to and from the point to pick up said prisoner
and two days to be at the point where said one prisoner is to be picked up, if
the agent elects to travel by automobile. In event the agent elects to travel
by air or other public transportation, then he or she shall be allowed one day
for the trip to the point where said prisoner is to be returned, one day to
return, and two days at the location where said prisoner is to be picked up;
and
      (4)   In addition, the agent and each person authorized to go with such
agent shall be allowed the state rate for subsistence per day for himself or
herself and such trip based on the same premises as heretofore set forth for
the number of days contemplated and state subsistence rate for each day that he
or she has the prisoner in his or her custody.
   (F)   At such time as the agent returns, he or she shall file with the
Auditor a statement of expenses; provided, however, he or she shall not have to
justify further any expenses for actual mileage to and from the point where
said prisoner is to be picked up. He or she shall add up the deductions for the
money so advanced, and any additional sums claimed and justified by the agent
shall be paid by the Auditor to such agent; and, likewise, in event such agent
has failed to justify all sums advanced to him or her, he or she shall be
responsible to repay to the County Treasurer any expenses not so justified.
(Ord. 1-4-7.2, passed 10-6-1986)
§ 36.02 MEDICAL CARE (CO-PAYMENT); COUNTY JAIL INMATES.
   (A)   A co-payment in the amount of $15 is hereby established and each
person confined to the county jail shall be required to make a co-payment in
the amount of $15 for the provision of any of the following services: medical
care, dental care, eye care and any other service.
   (B)   Such co-payment may be collected from an inmate’s commissary account,
trust fund account or other account to which the inmate is lawfully entitled.
   (C)   Such co-payment shall be collected by the County Sheriff and deposited
in the County Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
   (D)   These provisions shall not apply to a person confined in the county
jail, as follows:
      (1)   A person who maintains a policy of insurance from a private company
covering medical care, dental care, eye care or any other health care related
service;
      (2)   A person who is willing to pay for the person’s own medical care;
or
      (3)   A person who is committed to the Department of Corrections.
   (E)   A person confined to the county jail shall not be required to make the
co-payment under this section, if:
      (1)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account at the time the service is provided;
      (2)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account within 60 days after the service is provided;
      (3)   The service is provided for an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
county jail; or
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the County Sheriff or
County Jail Commander.
   (F)   This section shall not eliminate or restrict any existing obligation
for the inmate, the inmate’s family, or any insurance carrier covering the
inmate to pay any medical, dental, optometric or other treatment which may
otherwise exist under current law.
   (G)   This section shall be effective immediately upon passage.
(Ord. 1-4-7.4, passed 3-1-2004)
CHAPTER 37: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
37.01   Establishment of Bureau
   
37.02   OVB Clerk
   
37.03   Schedule of ordinances and code provisions
   
37.04   Violations Clerk procedure
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUREAU.
   The County Ordinance Violations Bureau (“OVB”) is hereby established.
(Ord. 1-4-19, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.02 OVB CLERK.
   (A)   The Clerk of the County Circuit Court is hereby designated as the
Violations Clerk of the County OVB.
   (B)   The Violations Clerk may accept written appearances, waivers of trial,
admissions of violations and payment of civil penalties of not more than $100
in ordinance violations cases, subject to the schedule set forth below.
(Ord. 1-4-19, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.03 SCHEDULE OF ORDINANCES AND CODE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter authorizes the Violations Clerk to adhere to the schedule
of ordinance and code provisions which are subject to admission of violation
before the Violations Clerk.
   (B)   The following ordinance and code provisions are subject to admission
of violation before the Violations Clerk:
      (1)   Smoking ordinance violations (
Chapter 96);
      (2)   Excessive noise ordinance violations (§§
94.01 through
94.06);
      (3)   Traffic Code and ordinance violations (Title VII); retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment ordinance (
Chapter 112);
      (4)   Dog control violations (§§
91.01 through
91.11,
91.99);
      (5)   County residential rental property ordinance (§§
150.15 through
150.18);
      (6)   County illegal dumping ordinance (
Chapter 51); and
      (7)   Environmental health services residential sewage disposal systems
ordinance and all amendments (
Chapter 51).
   (C)   The Violations Clerk may accept payment of a civil penalty violation
in the amount of $100 for the violation of the above ordinances, unless
expressly set forth otherwise.
(Ord. 1-4-19, passed 3-7-2005; Ord. 1-4-19.1, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 37.04 VIOLATIONS CLERK PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance or code violation as expressly
subject to this chapter is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by
law, unless the person waives the right to trial and enters an admission of the
violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon such an admission, the Violations
Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount prescribed above in
§
37.03. If a person charged with a violation that is expressly subject to this
section desires to exercise the right to a trial, the person shall appear
before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or enter a written denial
with the Violations Clerk. Waivers, admissions and denials must be filed with
the Violations Clerk within ten days of the issuance of the ordinance violation
notice. The County Attorney shall prepare all forms deemed necessary by the
Violations Clerk to process ordinance violations through the procedures set
forth in this chapter.
   (B)   If a person: denies an ordinance or code violation before the
Violations Clerk; fails to satisfy the civil penalty assessed by the Violations
Clerk after having entered an admission of violation; or fails to deny or admit
the violation under the procedures of this chapter, the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the County Attorney’s office.
   (C)   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for
ordinance or code violations shall be accounted for and paid into the County
General Fund as provided by law.
   (D)   An ordinance or code violation admitted under this chapter does not
constitute a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37, and an ordinance or code
violation costs may not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4. In
addition, an ordinance or code violation processed under this chapter may not
be considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the
percentage of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(Ord. 1-4-19, passed 3-7-2005)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL AND SALARIES
Section
   
38.01   Provisions adopted by reference
§ 38.01 PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The salary and personnel provisions of the county are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length
herein. These provisions include the following subjects: payroll deductions;
payment for jurors; payment of county office holders and employees’ travel
costs; security bond for public employees; conflict of interest policy; drug
and alcohol abuse policy; Highway Department; meals for precinct election
officials; precinct election officers; inspectors; Clerk; vacation pay; sick
pay; similar benefits; compensation for Absentee Voter Board; and county salary
provisions.
(Ord. 1-2-4, passed 8-17-1987; Ord. 1-2-5, passed 2-6-1989; Ord. 1-2-6, passed
12-4-1989; Ord. 1-1-3, passed 12-23-1991; Ord. 1-1-1.1, passed 12-4-1995; Ord.
1-5-4, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 1-5-5, passed 10-2-2000; Ord. 1-1-5, passed 4-7-
2003; Ord. 1-5-5.2, passed 10-20-2003; Ord. 1-1-5.1, passed 12-29-2003; Ord. 1-
1-6, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2009-08, passed 5-4-2009; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-30-
2017; Ord. 2017-6, passed 7-17-2017; Ord. 2018-11, passed 11-5-2018; Ord. 2020-
3, passed 7-6-2020; Ord. 2020-9, passed 11-4-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 11-4-
2020; Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-22-2020; Ord. 2021-6, passed 4-5-2021; Ord. 2021-
9, passed 8-2-2021; Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-2021; Ord. 2021-16, passed 12-29-
2021; Ord. 2021-17, passed 12-29-2021; Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2022-
3, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2022-5, passed 2-21-2022; Ord. 2022-6, passed 2-21-
2022; Ord. 2023-26, passed 12-4-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   ILLEGAL DUMPING/SOLID WASTE
      
52.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
53.   SEWAGE WORKS USE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility poles
   50.02   Infrastructure development zone
§ 50.01 UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, it shall be lawful for any
public utility, unless otherwise restricted, to put utility poles along the
existing right-of-way of any highway or road maintained by or under the
jurisdiction of the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All utility poles placed hereafter, or all of which may be replaced
hereafter, shall be moved at the expense of said utility when such utility is
notified by the County Board of Commissioners that it is necessary that such
utility poles be moved due to repair, widening or relocation of any public
highway or road maintained by or under the jurisdiction of the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners shall cooperate with said public
utility in the moving of such utility poles and any lines which must be moved
due to the moving of such utility pole.
   (D)   The cost of the moving of such utility pole shall be solely at the
expense of said public utility.
(Ord. passed 8-3-1981)
§ 50.02 INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT ZONE.
   Morgan County Commissioners adopt an infrastructure development zone as set
out herein, and specifically:
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.5-4, the County Commissioners
establish an infrastructure development zone.
   (B)   The infrastructure development zone shall incorporate all of the
geographic area of Morgan County, including its incorporated cities and towns.
   (C)   The infrastructure development zone is established to encourage the
development of broadband services to Morgan County residents residing in the
infrastructure development zone.
   (D)   The infrastructure development zone shall permit a business personal
property tax exemption available to persons or companies for certain
infrastructure associated with the development of broadband technology.
   (E)   The tax exemption for broadband technology infrastructure shall only
be permitted for the installation of fiber to homes, businesses, farms, schools
and publicly owned buildings. The exemption shall not be available for
maintenance and refurbishment to existing facilities, land the infrastructure
is located on, fiber to cell towers or satellites, or long haul/pass thru fiber
infrastructure.
   (F)   The exemption shall only be available to broadband infrastructure
projects completed within six years from the date of passage of this section.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 51: ILLEGAL DUMPING/SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Purpose
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Prohibited acts
   
51.05   Property owner rights and responsibilities
   
51.06   Enforcement and abatement
   
51.07   Hearings
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be titled “Illegal Dumping Ordinance”, and may be
cited as such.
   (B)   Reference shall be “Ord. 4-3-1.1, as amended by Ord. 2021-12" and/or
“Chapter 51".
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit illegal dumping of solid waste
materials in the county, to establish penalties for violations therefor, and to
provide for the method of cleanup of open dumps. Improper disposal at recycling
stations shall also be prohibited.
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Any discarded construction or demolition
materials, including, but not limited to, untreated lumber, paneling, drywall,
roofing, shingles, siding, plumbing and electrical components, doors, windows,
floor coverings and cabinets.
   CONTAMINANT. As defined in I.C. 13-11-2-42, any solid, semi-solid, liquid,
or gaseous matter, or any odor, radioactive material, pollutant (as defined by
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), as in effect
on January 1, 1989), hazardous waste (as defined in the federal Solid Waste
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), as in effect on January 1, 1989), any
constituent of a hazardous waste, or any combination of the items described in
this section, from whatever source, that: (1) is injurious to human health,
plant or animal life, or property; (2) interferes unreasonably with the
enjoyment of life or property; or (3) otherwise violates (a) environmental
management laws; or (b) rules adopted under environmental management laws. The
term includes chemicals used in the illegal manufacture of a controlled
substance (as defined in I.C. 35-48-1-9) or an immediate precursor (as defined
in I.C. 35-48-1-17) of a controlled substance, and waste produced from the
illegal manufacture of a controlled substance or an immediate precursor of the
controlled substance.
   DISCARDING. To abandon, deposit, desert, discharge, dispose, drop, dump,
eliminate, emit, jettison, leave, pitch, place, put, scrap, spill, throw or
toss any item, any solid waste or derivative thereof or any inherently waste-
like material in a manner such that the discarded substance remains upon the
land as solid waste.
   DUMPING. The discarding or long-term storage of any items of solid waste
commonly known as garbage, rubbish, refuse, construction and demolition debris,
household trash, appliances, diapers, food service wastes, tires, scrap metal,
vehicle parts, implement parts and all other items and materials defined as
“solid waste” below and in I.C. 13-11-2-205; and the discarding of any vehicles
which do not have value beyond scrap value and which are inoperable and
unlicensed or which are considered abandoned due to the surrounding conditions.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid and semisolid wastes
from processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food
or food materials.
   GENERATION. The act or process of producing solid waste.
   GENERATOR. The person whose actions or processes result in the production of
solid waste.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Has the same meaning as the term LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER as
used in I.C. 16-20-1-1 et seq., and shall include his or her authorized agent.
   INERT SOLID WASTE. Earth, rocks, fence wire, sheet metal, concrete, bricks,
tiles or aged asphalt, natural wood, brush, leaves, wood chips or sawdust, any
and all of which is free from contaminants.
   LONG-TERM STORAGE. The maintenance or containment of solid waste for a
period of 30 days or more.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more sources or the
disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land disposal method as prescribed
by law or regulations, and that exists without daily cover and without regard
to the possibilities of contamination or surface or subsurface water resources,
air, land or other hazard or threat of hazard to the environment.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company,
organization, joint stock company, municipal corporation, city, school district
or corporation, county, town, association, trust, estate, government unit or
other legal entity.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled and unauthorized removal of materials from
solid waste at any point in the waste management system.
   SOLID WASTE. Any yard waste, garbage, refuse, rubbish, sludge or other
discarded or disposed materials, including solid, liquid or semisolid or
contained gaseous material resulting from any operation, activity or source.
   STORAGE. Proper temporary containment of waste materials for a period of no
more than 15 days or the standard interval of local commercial collection
service, whichever is less.
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. A proper and suitable receptacle used for the
temporary storage of solid waste while awaiting collection. Containers shall be
designed to prevent escape or leakage of contents, and should be resistant to
scavenging animals.
   WEST CENTRAL SOLID WASTE DISTRICT. The legally constituted solid waste
district of which the county is a member, pursuant to I.C. 13-21-3-2.
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 51.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Recycling facilities.
      (1)   No person shall discard any materials other than recyclables in any
facility or container intended for collecting designated recyclable materials.
      (2)   No person shall conduct scavenging at any facility or container
intended for collecting materials with value as a designated recyclable
material.
   (B)   Dumping.
      (1)   No person shall discard any solid waste along any roadway within
the county, unless it be in a proper solid waste storage container and is
intended for collection and removal to a facility approved for handling such
materials along a designated route.
      (2)   No person shall discard for final disposal or for use as fill
material any inert solid waste without express consent of the property owner of
the final disposal site, including county road rights-of-way.
      (3)   No person shall discard for final disposal or for use as fill
material any inert solid waste which is mixed or adulterated with any
contaminants.
      (4)   No person shall do any dumping or permit any dumping to take place
at any location in the county unless such location is an approved and properly
permitted landfill site.
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 PROPERTY OWNER RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of all persons owning real property in the
county to sustain diligent and good faith efforts to protect the natural
environment and prevent illegal dumping on their property. Persons owning real
property in the county shall not cause or allow the disposal upon their
property of any solid waste materials.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no enforcement action
may be taken under this chapter against a landowner on whose land waste has
been improperly disposed without the landowner’s consent, unless there has been
made a diligent and good effort to identify, locate and take enforcement action
against a person or persons who appear likely to have committed or caused the
improper disposal act(s).
   (C)   Any landowner who in good faith provides information concerning a
name, an address or any other evidence of a responsible person’s identity found
in wastes improperly disposed on the landowner’s property is not liable to said
person for an action taken by enforcement authorities under this chapter
against the person as a result of information provided by the landowner.
   (D)   The owner of property on which improper disposal acts have occurred
may be included as a party of any enforcement action against a person who
allegedly committed the violation so that the landowner may be ordered to allow
the violator access to the land to remove and properly dispose of the wastes
allegedly disposed in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   A landowner on whose land waste has been disposed in violation of this
chapter without the landowner’s consent may, in addition to any other legal or
equitable remedy available to the landowner, recover from the person
responsible for the improper disposal reasonable expenses incurred by the
landowner in removal.
   (F)   A landowner who consents to or allows disposal of wastes generated by
others upon his or her property, without making a diligent and good faith
effort to prevent the improper disposal of wastes, and who fails to notify
proper authorities of said improper acts of disposal within a reasonable period
of time shall be subject to enforcement procedures, and shall be deemed the
responsible party and shall be served notice for clean-up of all wastes
deposited upon his or her property and removal for final disposal at an
approved sanitary landfill at the landowner’s expense.
   (G)   If a diligent and good faith effort by the Health Officer to identify,
locate and take enforcement action against a person or persons who committed
prohibited acts of waste disposal has been made and has failed to identify
violators of acts prohibited herein, the owner of real estate upon which an
open dump is located shall be held responsible for correcting and controlling
any nuisance conditions which may occur as a result of the open dump.
   (H)   Materials which provide identifying information regarding the
generator shall constitute a rebuttable presumption that the generator has
deposited solid waste without the express consent of the landowner and in
violation of this chapter. The presumption can be rebuttted by proof that:
      (1)   The person obtained the express consent of the landowner; and
      (2)   The person properly placed in solid waste in waste storage
container for pick-up by a licensed waste hauler.
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 51.06 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)    It shall be the duty of the County Board of Health and all County
Health Officers to enforce this chapter.
      (1)   The County Health Officer is authorized to perform inspections in
the furtherance of fulfilling his or her duty to enforce this chapter.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to fines or other injunctive action as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receiving a complaint that asserts the existence of unlawful
conditions that violate any part of this chapter, a County Health Officer
shall:
      (1)   Investigate the allegation and verify to the greatest extent
possible that a violation of this chapter has occurred.
      (2)   Upon confirmation that a violation confirmed, the County Health
Officer shall complete a written notice of violation that shall include:
         (a)   State the nature of the violation;
         (b)   Issue an order that the violation be abated;
         (c)   Indicate a method for abatement and provide directions for the
same; and
         (d)   Name the shortest reasonable time for abatement, and include
what time period (15-30 days) believed to be reasonable that the abatement be
completed.
         (e)   Abatement of a violation must be accomplished in an
environmentally safe and lawful manner by disposal of solid waste in an
approved and properly permitted landfill.
   (C)   If the violation is not satisfactorily abated within the specified
time allowed, a second notice of violation shall be served, in the same manner
as specified for initial notices and containing the same information specified
for initial notices.
   (D)   If the violation is still not abated after this period of time, the
matter should then immediately be referred to the County Attorney for
appropriate legal action.
   (E)   The County Attorney shall take immediate action to accomplish the
abatement by filing an enforcement action in court and requesting the court
schedule a hearing as soon as possible.
   (F)   The County Attorney may request, and the court may order any of the
following:
      (1)   Issuing an injunction;
      (2)   Entering a judgment;
      (3)   Issuing an order and conditions under I.C. 16-41-9;
      (4)   Ordering the suspension or revocation of a license;
      (5)   Ordering an inspection;
      (6)   Ordering that a property be vacated;
      (7)   Ordering that a structure be demolished;
      (8)   Imposing a penalty not to exceed an amount set forth in I.C. 36-l-
3-8(a)(10);
      (9)   Imposing court costs and fees under I.C. 33-37-4-2 and I.C. 33-37-
5;
      (10)   Ordering the respondent to take appropriate action in a specified
time to comply with the order of the local board of health or local health
officer;
      (11)   Ordering a local board of health or local health officer to take
appropriate action to enforce an ord er within a specified time; or
      (12)   The County Attorney shall further ensure that the violator
permanently eradicates the violation and shall ask the court to order that it
remain free of any such violation and that the court may authorize remediation
acts be authorized to act immediately.
   (G)   Miscellaneous enforcement and collection matters.
      (1)   The County Attorney in which a local board of health or local
health officer has jurisdiction shall represent the local health board and
local health officer in the action unless the county executive, local board of
health, or health and hospital corporation employs other legal counsel, or the
matter has been referred through law enforcement authorities to the prosecuting
attorney.
      (2)   Cumulative remedy. This chapter supplements and does not limit any
other remedy or action available in law or equity regarding the subject matter
hereof.
      (3)   Failure to pay. If the owner fails to timely pay an invoice for
abatement costs issued pursuant to this chapter, the Code Enforcement Official,
or his or her designee, shall certify to the Morgan County Auditor the amount
of the invoice for abatement costs, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification of the same. The Morgan County Auditor shall
place the total amount so certified on the tax duplicate for the property at
issue, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected
as delinquent taxes are and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the
county.
      (4)   Abatement vendors. The Commissioners may invite and accept no less
than two reasonable bids for abatement vendors who shall be private businesses
and not any department of the county. Said vendors shall provide abatement
services as independent contractors for violations of this chapter including
the abatement of weeds and rank vegetation, garbage and junk, and the bids may
be renewed and updated at various times when deemed appropriate by the
Commissioners.
      (5)   Funds collected. Any and all abatement costs, penalties, and fines
collected as a result of violations of and pursuant to this chapter shall be
deposited into the General Fund of the county. The Commissioners and County
Council may, in their discretion and as circumstances may warrant, disburse
these funds to the General Fund of the Planning and Zoning Department.
      (6)   Statutory lien. In addition to the collection procedures described
above, the expenses incurred by the county in order to abate a public nuisance
constitute a lien that attaches to the property when notice of the lien is
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. The lien is superior to all
other liens except liens for taxes, in an amount that does not exceed: (a)
$10,000 for real property that contains one or more occupied or unoccupied
single or double family dwellings or the appurtenances or additions to those
dwellings or is unimproved; or (b) $20,000 for all other property.
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-1-2021)  Penalty, see
§
51.99
§ 51.07 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person receiving any such notice of violation as described herein
may demand, in writing, and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
local Health Board.
   (B)   Conduct of the hearing shall be prescribed by regulations promulgated
by the local Health Board.
   (C)   The local Health Board shall hear testimony and take evidence on the
matter, following which the Board shall sustain, modify or revoke the notice of
violation issued by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
    In addition to the lien provisions outlined above for the payment of all
abatement costs, which shall include any and all administrative costs, filing
fees, reasonable attorney fees, or any other actual costs incurred by the Code
Enforcement Officer, County Auditor, Board of Commissioners, abatement vendors,
or any party related to the enforcement of this chapter on behalf of the county
in issuing the violation notice and taking whatever actions necessary to abate
said violation(s), an owner may also be assessed a fine, in the discretion of
the Code Enforcement Officer or hearing authority, as follows:
   (A)   First violation: $100;
   (B)   Second violation: $500; and
   (C)   Third and subsequent violations: $1,000.
(Ord. 4-3-1.1, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-1-2021)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Introduction
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Submission requirements and plan approvals
   
52.04   Detention requirements
   
52.05   Conveyance requirements
   
52.06   Emergency access easement requirements
   
52.07   Flood control and management
   
52.08   Water quality
   
52.09   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
   
52.10   Enforcement
Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination
   
52.25   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.26   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
52.27   Exempted discharges and connections
   
52.28   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
52.29   Private property maintenance duties
   
52.30   Spill reporting
   
52.31   Inspections and monitoring
   
52.32   Enforcement; compliance
   
52.33   Stop-work order
   
52.34   Failure to comply or complete
   
52.35   Suspension of access to the storm drain system
   
52.36   Corrective action
   
52.37   Appeals
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Findings.
      (1)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of the county are at times subjected to flooding;
      (2)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the county and the region;
      (3)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream
channel erosion, and sediment transport and deposition;
      (4)   Stormwater runoff produced by land development contributes to
increased quantities of water-borne pollutants;
      (5)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution,
due to land development within the county, have resulted in the deterioration
of the water resources of the county and downstream municipalities. Increased
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and pollutants
associated with stormwater runoff from development projects within the county
may, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely affect the county’s
water bodies and water resources, and those of downstream municipalities.
      (6)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution can
be controlled and/or minimized by the regulation and management of stormwater
runoff from development;
      (7)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained in this
subchapter and implementing the same will address many of the detrimental
effects of stormwater runoff; and
      (8)   Adopting these standards is necessary for the preservation of the
soils and topography of the county as well as the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (B)   Authority. The county has the authority to adopt a Stormwater
Management Ordinance pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq., by "Home Rule" and
further as required by Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System Stormwater program (40 CFR Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124; December 8, 1999)
authorized by the 1987 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management's (IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) General Permit (MS4GP), and the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management's Construction Stormwater General Permit (CSGP).
   (C)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish minimum
stormwater management requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the
general health, safety, and welfare of the public. This subchapter seeks to
accomplish, among others, the following objectives:
      (1)   To reduce flood damage;
      (2)   To mitigate increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes from
identified new land development;
      (3)   To minimize the deterioration of existing watercourses, culverts
and bridges, and other structures associated with stormwater conveyance;
      (4)   To encourage water recharge into the ground where geologically
favorable conditions exist;
      (5)   To reduce the potential for point-source and non-point source
pollution through requirements for construction site stormwater Best Management
Practices (BMPs) and post construction stormwater quality BMPs;
      (6)   To maintain the integrity of stream channels for biological
functions, as well as for drainage and other purposes;
      (7)   To minimize the impact of development upon stream bank and stream
bed stability;
      (8)   To reduce erosion and off-site sedimentation from development or
construction projects;
      (9)   To preserve and protect water supply facilities and water resources
by means of controlling increased flood discharges, stream erosion, and runoff
pollution;
      (10)   To reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and
non-point source pollution, wherever practicable, from lands that were
developed without stormwater management controls meeting the purposes and
standards of this Ordinance as well as future developments;
      (11)   To implement the minimum standards established in this subchapter
to protect water bodies from degradation resulting from changing land use where
there are insufficient stormwater management controls;
      (12)   To protect adjoining property owners from detrimental impacts
caused by changing land use and/or drainage;
      (13)   To ensure that mineral extraction is earned out without adverse
impact on water bodies or nearby landowners; and
      (14)   To comply with the standards set forth in the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management's (IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(MS4) General Permit (MS4GP).
   (C)   Applicability, exemptions and general provisions.
      (1)   This subchapter shall apply to any development within the
unincorporated boundaries of the county within the jurisdiction of this
subchapter which include land disturbance. Refer to the County Stormwater
Design Manual for land disturbance calculation guidance.
      (2)   Projects with greater than or equal to 0.5 acres and less than one
acre of land disturbance shall obtain SWMPA from the county.
      (3)   Projects with greater than or equal to one acre of land disturbance
shall obtain SWMPA from the county and a CSGP from IDEM.
      (4)   The following agricultural operations are considered development
for the purposes of this subchapter:
         (a)   Buildings, including barns and buildings to house livestock;
         (b)   Roads associated with infrastructure;
         (c)   Agricultural waste lagoons and other facilities;
         (d)   Lake, ponds and impoundments;
         (e)   Wetlands constructed voluntarily or as mitigation; and
         (f)   Other infrastructure.
      (5)   This subchapter shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   The installation or removal of individual mobile homes within a
mobile home park. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to the
construction, expansion, or modification of a mobile home park;
         (b)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities, including tillage,
planting, cultivation, or harvesting operations to produce agricultural or
nursery and vegetative crops, pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile;
         (c)   Plats with preliminary plat approval and other developments with
final land use approval prior to the effective date of this subchapter, where
such approvals remain in effect;
         (d)   Building additions where the total increase in impervious
surface including parking lots, sidewalks, etc., is less than 10,000 square
feet except where the Office of the County Surveyor's Office has identified
flooding concerns;
         (e)   Silvicultural activities associated with non-point source
discharges (40 C.F.R. § 122.27);
         (f)   Stormwater discharges associated with oil and gas exploration,
production, processing or treatment operations, or transmission facilities (40
C.F.R. § 122.26);
         (g)   Ditch maintenance for activities performed on a regulated drain
by a county drainage board as defined in I.C. 36-9-27; or
         (h)   The land-disturbing activities listed below, provided other
applicable permits contain provisions requiring immediate implementation of
erosion and sediment control measures and stormwater management measures:
            1.   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure
under 329 I.A.C. § 10.
            2.   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
            3.   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste
pursuant to a permit issued by IDEM under 329 I.A.C. § 10 that contains
equivalent stormwater requirements, including the expansion of landfill
boundaries and construction of new cells either within or outside the original
solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   Variances. A variance from any or all requirements of this subchapter
may be granted by the specific approval of the county. No variance shall be
approved that would ultimately result in failure by the county to meet the
requirements of any federal or state law. Variance requests that are denied
will list how it diminishes the protective standards from human health or the
environment set forth by the subchapter. A denied variance may be appealed to
the County Drainage Board within 60 days of receipt of the denial. Requests for
variance from the requirements of this subchapter must be in written form,
addressed to the county and demonstrate the following:
      (1)   Specify the provision(s) of this subchapter and/or the provision(s)
of the Stormwater Design Manual from which the variance is requested;
      (2)   Clearly state the reason for the variance request and why the
conditions of this subchapter cannot be met; and
      (3)   Describe how the requested variance does not diminish the
protective standards for human health or the environment set forth by the
subchapter.
   (E)   Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements. This
subchapter is not intended to interfere with or annul any other ordinance, rule
or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The requirements of this
subchapter should be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision
of this subchapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any
other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human
health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
   (F)   Fees. The fee schedule for the following shall be as established:
      (1)   Fees for violations;
      (2)   Erosion control permit fee;
      (3)   Technical plan review fee; and
      (4)   Post construction BMP inspection fee.
   (G)   Development of a Stormwater Design Manual.
      (1)   The Board has furnished additional policy, criteria and information
including specifications and standards, for the proper implementation of the
requirements of this subchapter in the form of a county stormwater design
manual.
      (2)   This manual includes details of acceptable stormwater management
and treatment practices, including specific design criteria for each stormwater
practice. The manual may be updated and expanded as necessary and needed from
time to time by the county, subject to approval by the Board, based on
improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience. Stormwater treatment practices that are designed and constructed in
accordance with the design and sizing criteria will be presumed to meet the
minimum water quality and quantity performance standards.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The height of the Base Flood in relation to the
North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88); commonly referred to as the
100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE or BMP. Any structural or nonstructural control
measure  utilized to improve the quality and, as appropriate, reduce the storm
water run-off rate. The term includes schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practice, treatment requirements, operation and maintenance procedures, use of
containment facilities, land use planning, policy techniques, and other
practices that comply with the county's Stormwater Design Manual.
   BOARD. The Morgan County Drainage Board.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure constructed or erected partially or wholly
above-ground. The term BUILDING includes both the above-ground and the below-
ground portions of the structure.
   BUILDING OPENING. Any opening of a solid wall such as a window or door,
through which flood waters could penetrate.
   CHANNEL. A conveyance intended to carry runoff such as a swale or ditch.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 USC Sec 1251 et
seq., as amended, and the applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER RUNOFF. Stormwater runoff from a development
site following a land alteration.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structural process for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit such as a pipe designed for the conveyance of
surface drainage water under a roadway, railroad, embankment or other
impediment. (See also PIPE SYSTEM).
   DETENTION. A system which is designed to capture stormwater, store it, and
release it over a given period of time through an outlet structure at a
controlled rate.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A manmade structure for the temporary storage of
stormwater runoff with a controlled release during or immediately following a
storm.
   DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT. A land alteration that requires, pursuant to state
law or local ordinance, the approval of a site plan, plat, special land use,
planned unit development, rezoning of land, land division approval, private
road approval, or other approvals required for the construction of land or the
erection of buildings or structures; provided, however, that for purposes of
this subchapter only, developed or development shall not include the actual
construction of, or an addition, extension or modification to, an individual
single-family or a two-family detached dwelling.
   DEVELOPER. Any person proposing or implementing the development of land.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any land that is being or has been developed or that a
developer proposes for development.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who directly or indirectly discharges stormwater from
any property. DISCHARGER also means any employee, officer, director, partner,
contractor, or other person who participates in, or is legally or factually
responsible for, any act or omission that is or results in a violation of this
subchapter.
   DITCH. An earthen conveyance with side slopes steeper than five to one or
carrying greater than ten cubic feet per second,
   DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
   DRAINAGE. The collection, conveyance, or discharge of ground water and/or
surface water.
   DRAINAGE FACILITIES. All ditches, channels, conduits, retention-detention
systems, tiles, swales, sewers, and other natural or artificial means of
draining stormwater from land.
   EASEMENT. An authorization grant by a property owner for the use by another
of any designated part of his property for a clearly specified purpose
including but not limited to common pedestrian ways and hiking and biking
paths.
   ENGINEER. A person licensed to practice engineering in the State of Indiana.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency of the federal
government charged with emergency management.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of water
bodies or the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface water runoff from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area subject to periodic flooding.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any structural and/or non-structural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures or property that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
land, or improvements utilities and structures.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE) or FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The base
flood elevation plus two feet at any given location.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of any watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved to carry and discharge a base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one-tenth of a foot due to the
loss of flood conveyance or storage.
   FOREBAY. A small pond placed in front of a larger retention/detention
structure such as a wet pond, dry pond, or wetland to intercept and concentrate
a majority of sediment that is coming into the system before it reaches the
larger structure.
   GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling, and stockpiling of soil or any
combination thereof and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   GUTTER SPREAD. The spread of water on a roadway surface perpendicular from
the face of the gutter into the driving lane.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any method or means for conveying an illicit discharge
into water bodies or the county’s stormwater conveyance system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to water bodies that does not consist
entirely of stormwater, discharges pursuant to the terms of an NPDES permit, or
exempted discharges as defined in this subchapter.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that prevents or significantly reduces the
ability of stormwater to readily infiltrate into the underlying natural soil
such as asphalt, concrete, roofs, and gravel.
   LAND ALTERATION.
      (1)   Any action taken relative to land which either:
         (a)   Removes the natural ground cover;
         (b)   Changes the contour;
         (c)   Increases the runoff rate;
         (d)   Changes the elevation;
         (e)   Decreases the rate at which water is absorbed;
         (f)   Changes the drainage pattern;
         (g)   Creates or changes a drainage facility;
         (h)   Involves construction, enlargement or location of any building
on a permanent foundation; or
         (i)   Creates an impoundment.
      (2)   LAND ALTERATION includes (by way of example and not of limitation)
terracing, grading, excavating, constructing earthwork, draining, installing
drainage tile, filling, and paving.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any manmade change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil, excavating,
filling, transporting, and grading.
   LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed to practice land surveying in the State of
Indiana.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased, or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land must be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor or the lowest enclosed area (including a
basement), but not including an unfinished or flood-proof enclosure that is
usable solely for parking of vehicles or building access.
   MAINTENANCE. Cleaning, removing obstructions from and making minor repairs
to a drainage facility so that it will perform the function for which it was
designed and constructed.
   MANUFACTURED BMP. A structural BMP designed for stormwater quality treatment
constructed of a combination of manmade materials at an off-site facility.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal of oil, gas, coal, ore, gravel, sand,
aggregate or other resources from below the surface of the land.
   MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM MS4. A conveyance or system of conveyances,
including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains, which is:
      (1)   Owned or operated by a federal, state, city, town, county,
district, association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to state
law) having jurisdiction over stormwater, including special districts under
state law such as a sewer district, flood control district, or drainage
district, or similar entity, or a designated and approved management agency
under Section 208 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1288) that discharges into
waters of the state; or privately owned stormwater utility, hospital,
university, or college having jurisdiction over stormwater that discharges into
waters of the state;
      (2)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (3)   Not a combined sewer; and
      (4)   Not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as defined at
40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and including, but not limited
to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal, urban runoff sources, and sources of sediment.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   NON-STRUCTURAL BMP.  A BMP that is not constructed by physical means of land
disturbance such as education, public information handouts, etc.
   NPDES. National pollution discharge elimination system.
   PEAK STORM. The storm of a specified return period that produces the maximum
runoff from a site or the maximum elevation in a detention pond. Storm
durations of one-half, one-, two-, three-, six-, 12- and 24-hours shall be used
to determine the peak storm.
   PERIMETER DRAIN. A subsurface pipe network designed and installed around the
perimeter of a septic field for the purpose of effectively collecting and
draining away excess subsurface waters.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality, or any other legal entity.
   PIPE SYSTEM. Two or more pipes connected by one or more structures such as a
manhole designed to convey stormwater runoff.
   PLAN. Written narratives, specifications, drawings, sketches, written
standards, operating procedures, or any combination of these, which contain
information pursuant to this subchapter.
   POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance,
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding
operation, or vessel or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may
be discharged.
   POLLUTANT. A substance which causes or contributes to pollution which
includes, but is not limited to the following: any dredged spoil, solid waste,
vehicle fluids, yard wastes, animal wastes, agricultural waste products,
sediment, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
chemical wastes, biological wastes, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment,  rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal,
commercial and agricultural waste, or any other contaminant or other substance
defined as a pollutant under the Clean Water Act.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the quality of
waters by waste to a degree which unreasonably affects, or has the potential to
unreasonably affect, either the waters for beneficial uses or the facilities
which serve these beneficial uses.
   PROPERTY OWNER.  Any person having legal or equitable title to property,
having a contractual interest in property, or any person having or exercising
care, custody, or control over any property.
   RECLAMATION PLAN FOR MINERAL EXTRACTION. A document illustrating drainage
patterns, both existing and proposed, at a mineral extraction site; proposed
erosion control and off-site sedimentation control of the site; and proposed
final land use and post construction stormwater quality BMPs for the site, all
of which are documented at the initial approval of the SWMP and at ten-year
intervals following the approval of a SWMP.
   RECORD DRAWINGS. Drawings prepared, signed, and sealed by a professional
engineer or land surveyor representing the final "as-built" record of the
actual in place elevations, location of structures, and topography.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL. An engineer, land surveyor or architect license
under the laws of the State of Indiana to practice the respective profession.
   REGULATED DRAIN. A drain, either open channel or closed tile/sewer, subject
to the provisions of the Indiana Drainage Code, I.C. 36-9-27.
   RETENTION. A system that is designed to capture stormwater and contain it
until it infiltrates into the soil or evaporates.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, pedestrian-way, hiking path, biking path, crosswalk, railroad, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer
main, special landscaping, drainage, or for another special use. The usage of
the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall mean that every RIGHT-
OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included
within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended
for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, screening
or special landscaping, or any other use involving maintenance by the Board of
Commissioners shall be dedicated to public use by the subdivider on whose plat
such RIGHT-OF-WAY is established. All divisions of land along existing roadways
shall dedicate half right of way for public purposes along its entire frontage
in the amount as specified for the classification of the existing roadway.
   ROADWAY DRAINAGE. The runoff and drainage located within 20 feet of the edge
of public and/or private roadways adjacent to, abutting, or within the
boundaries of the property to be addressed in a proposed stormwater management
submittal.
   RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of the soils of
that basin.
   SOIL EROSION. The stripping of soil and weathered rock from land creating
sediment for transportation by water, wind, or ice, and enabling formation of
new sedimentary deposits.
   STORM DRAIN. A system of open or enclosed conduits and appurtenant
structures intended to convey or manage stormwater runoff, ground water and
drainage.
   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. Publicly owned facilities operated by the county by
which storm water is collect and/or conveyed, including but not limited  to any
roads with drainage systems, streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures
which are within the county and are not part of a publicly owned treatment
works as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from rainstorm events.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP). An engineered drainage plan that
effectively addresses and manages stormwater runoff and discharge.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN APPROVAL (SWMPA). An approval issued pursuant to
this subchapter from the County Surveyor's Office that states all requirements
of the County Stormwater Management Ordinance have been met.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan developed to minimize
the impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality within a municipal separate storm sewer
system area.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The runoff and drainage of precipitation resulting from
rainfall or snowmelt or other natural event or process.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF FACILITY. The method, structure, area, system, or other
equipment or measures that are designed to receive, control, store, or convey
stormwater.
   STREAM. A river, stream, or creek which may or may not be serving as a
drain, or any other waterbody that has definite banks, a bed, and visible
evidence of a continued flow or continued occurrence of water.
   STRUCTURAL BMP. A structure designed and constructed for the purpose of
stormwater quality treatment stormwater management, and flood control.
   SWALE. A depressed earthen designed to convey stormwater runoff with side
slopes five to one or shallower and conveying no more than ten cfs.
   USEPA.  The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   WATER BODY. A river, lake, stream, creek, or other watercourse or wetlands.
   WATERSHED. A region draining into a waterbody.
   WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated conditions.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.03 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN APPROVALS.
   (A)   Any person or landowner who develops or engages in development
activities on land or a development site with land disturbance greater than or
equal to one-half acre and subject to the provisions of this subchapter must
first obtain a Stormwater Management Plan Approval (SWMPA) from the county. A
permit is obtained by first submitting a Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) to
the county, which shall include the following:
      (1)   Complete set of plans including a title page with location and
vicinity maps, existing and proposed condition plan sheets, construction
details and erosion control plans all sealed by a registered professional. A
plan and profile of the proposed drainage system shall be provided. Individual
sheets shall be required for existing topography, proposed topography, erosion
control, plan and profiles, and details. All sheets shall be 24 inches by 36
inches.
      (2)   Mineral extraction operations seeking a SWMPA shall submit the
following additional materials with their proposed Stormwater Management Plan
(SWMP): a certified survey showing the number and proximity of residents within
the adjoining area (per 312 I.A.C. § 2-3-2); a copy of the approved driveway
permit with all transportation and drainage easements and right-of- ways
granted by the applicant along public ways and waterways; and a reclamation
plan. Any changes in a plan approved by the county must be submitted to the
county and re-approved as a revision. Additional hourly review fees will be
applicable to this revision review.
      (3)   A drainage narrative describing the existing and proposed
conditions and runoff patterns and complete documentation of all calculations
and assumptions. This narrative shall be sealed by a registered professional
engineer or licensed surveyor.
      (4)   For projects over one acre of land disturbance, a draft IDEM Notice
of Intent (NOI) is required so that the county can obtain project information
during review, prior to county approval and subsequent submittal of the NOI to
IDEM.
      (5)   All SWMP submittals must meet the requirements of this subchapter
and the provisions of the Stormwater Design Manual. A written narrative is
required with the submittal stating that the drainage plans comply with the
provisions of this subchapter and the County Stormwater Design Manual.
      (6)   Bond assurance made out to the County Surveyor's Office is required
for an amount equal to 100% of an engineer's itemized estimate of the total
costs for infrastructure installation and permanent stabilization, including
the cost of roughening the ground surface, seeding with an appropriate seed
mixture, and mulching.
   (B)   The county may require such additional information to be included in a
drainage plan that is necessary to evaluate and determine the adequacy of the
proposed drainage and water quality facilities.
   (C)   Once the county determines that all requirements of this subchapter
are met, a formal notice of approval (SWMPA) shall be issued by the county.
   (D)   Any construction project holding a SWMPA, determined to be
inconsistent with plans previously approved by the county may be subject to §
52.10. Any changes in a set of SWMP approved by the county must be submitted to
the county and re-approved as a revision. Additional hourly review fees will be
applicable to this revision review.
   (E)   Final inspection. The county, or a designated representative, shall
inspect the construction site to verify the requirements for a Notice of
Termination (NOT) have been met. These requirements include stabilization of
the site, removal of temporary BMPs, completion of land disturbance within the
permitted boundaries, and cleanout of sediment and other pollutants from post
construction BMPs. A completed copy of the inspection form confirming
compliance with project termination requirements is required to be sent by the
applicant to IDEM along with the NOT. The NOT shall also be submitted to the
county.
   (F)   As-builts. As-built drawings shall be completed within 30 days after
the completion of the project and submitted to the county. Electronic record
drawings shall include a pdf file of the plans completed by a professional
engineer or land surveyor with changes made during construction shall be marked
on the as-builts in a contrasting color in order to easily see the revisions.
   (G)   Assurances/bonding. Prior to the recording of the final plat any
drainage infrastructure or storm water measure listed on the approved plans not
installed or completed as demonstrated by certified as-built drawings will be
subject to a bond assurance made out to the County Surveyor's Office. The bond
assurance shall be for an amount equal to 100% of an engineer's itemized
estimate of the total costs of installing and stabilizing all drainage
infrastructure or storm water measure listed on the approved plans that have
not been implemented or not within the tolerance of the certified as-built
statement or drawings.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 10-1-1.1, passed 7-19-2004; Ord. 2024-18,
passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.04 DETENTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Detention shall be required for SWMPA for all proposed projects that
disturb a half acre or more of land, or disturbances of less than a half acre
of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale (if the
larger common plan will ultimately disturb a half or more acres of land). In
addition, detention may be required for any development in areas where
downstream flooding has been identified by the county.
   (B)   The following projects may complete a runoff curve number worksheet
per the County Stormwater Design Manual. Upon county approval, detention
requirements for the project shall be waived:
      (1)   Land-disturbing activities where there will be no additional
impervious surfaces associated with the final completed project.
      (2)   Single-family residential strip development offered for sale or
lease without land improvements and the project is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale.
      (3)   Individual residential building lots within a permitted project
site.
      (4)   Residential developments consisting of four or fewer lot
developments where the proposed impervious surfaces are 10% or less of the
project acreage. Impervious is determined by the sum of all infrastructure
(roads, paths, parking, etc.) and the average projects hard surfaces associated
with all building lots within the project.
      (5)   Single-family residences and private ponds that are not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale.
   (C)   Pre- and post-developed runoff rates shall be determined using
methodologies specified in the County Stormwater Design Manual.
   (D)   The following requirements shall be fulfilled for all detention
facilities:
      (1)   The runoff from the developed condition peak storm with a 100-year
return period storm shall be limited to the runoff rate from the pre-developed
condition peak storm with a ten-year return period storm.
      (2)   The runoff from the developed condition peak storm with a ten-year
return period storm shall be limited to the runoff rate from the pre-developed
condition peak storm with a two-year return period storm.
      (3)   There shall be no increase in the runoff rate from the pre-
developed conditions to the post-developed conditions for all storms at all
discharge points along the property line.
      (4)   An adequate downstream receiving facility shall be identified on
the plans and evaluated in the drainage report. There shall be no increase in
erosion potential on the adjoining properties. Earthen embankments, darns, and/
or berms designed and constructed to detain or impound stormwater shall be
designed using criteria specified in the County Stormwater Design Manual.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.05 CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Conveyance structures (outfalls, pipes, swales, ditches, culverts, etc.)
shall be designed in accordance with the County Stormwater Design Manual to
fulfill the following requirements:
   (A)   Outfalls. All proposed pipe outfalls shall have an adequate receiving
facility identified on the plans. There shall be no increase in erosion and
sedimentation on adjoining properties.
   (B)   Lift stations. Lift stations shall not be designed as part of a
stormwater conveyance system. Proposed stormwater lift stations will only be
reviewed if complete documentation of no other reasonable option is provided.
Stormwater lift stations will be approved on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Swales. Swales shall be designed to accommodate the ten-year peak
runoff within the proposed banks and the 100-year peak runoff within the
drainage easement.
   (D)   Ditches. Proposed ditches shall accommodate the 100-year runoff within
the banks or a designated easement.
   (E)   Perimeter drain collection. All residential development regulated by
this subchapter shall indicate on their plans an appropriately sized, common
collection swale, ditch or subsurface pipe structure that provides a positive
discharge, collects and effectively conveys perimeter drain discharge to an
appropriate offsite outlet.
   (F)   Pipe systems, inlets, culverts, swales, and ditches shall be designed
according to the County Stormwater Design Manual.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.06 EMERGENCY ACCESS EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Emergency access easements shall be provided to the county as follows:
   (A)   Detention structures. Detention structures shall have an emergency
access easement around the 100-year flood elevation. This emergency access
easement shall include all release control devices. The minimum emergency
access easement requirements for detention structures shall be designated in
the County Stormwater Design Manual.
   (B)   Conveyance systems.
      (1)   An emergency access easement shall be provided for all conveyance
systems that:
         (a)   Will be accepted by the county and/or be located adjacent to
public or private roads or ways; or
         (b)   Lead to public conveyance systems located adjacent to public or
private roads or ways; or
         (c)   Are maintained by a homeowner's association; or
         (d)   Receive off-site runoff.
   (C)   The minimum emergency access easement requirements for conveyance
systems shall be designated in the County Stormwater Design Manual.
   (D)   The owner of the property shall be responsible for maintenance of the
property's drainage facilities. The granting of an emergency access to the
county does not alter the property owner's duty to maintain the property's
drainage facilities.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.07 FLOOD CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property in the county
are subjected to flooding. To help minimize the occurrence and impact of
flooding resulting in the loss of life and/or property, the following are
required:
      (1)   FEMA studied waterways.
         (a)   FEMA floodway/floodplain delineation. All plans submitted shall
have the floodway (FW) and floodplain (FP) delineated on the grading plan(s) as
scaled from the FEMA flood insurance rate maps. A reference to the panel number
and date of the map shall also be included. Where no FW is delineated, the
entire floodplain shall be assumed to be the FW.
         (b)   One hundred-year base flood elevation (BFE) - The 100-year BFE
shall be noted on the grading plan(s). This BFE shall be determined using the
flood insurance study (FIS) and the appropriate plate. A note referencing the
plate number and date shall be included on the plans.
      (2)   Non-FEMA studied waterways (greater than one square mile drainage
basin). DNR floodway/ floodplain delineation: all plans shall have the FW and
FP delineated as determined by the DNR. A note referencing the DNR
determination and a copy of the DNR response letter shall be provided prior to
approval by the County Drainage Board.
      (3)   Basins less than one square mile in area. Floodplain delineation:
all waterways with drainage basins less than one square mile and greater than
25 acres shall have the 100-year BFE determined by methods outlined in the
County Stormwater Design Manual and delineated on the plans. Complete
documentation of this determination shall be included with the submission.
   (B)   No structures shall be located in a FEMA or DNR designated floodway.
No structures shall be located within the floodplain of drainage basins less
than one square mile unless a flood way determination is conducted.
   (C)   The lowest finished floor of all structures located within a
floodplain shall have a three feet flood protection grade (FPG) with respect to
the lowest floor of the structure.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.08 WATER QUALITY.
   (A)   For new development areas that disturb one- half acre or more of land,
or disturbances of less than one-half acre of land that are part of a larger
common plan of development or sale (if the larger common plan will ultimately
disturb one or more acres of land), structural BMPs shall be designed to meet
water quality requirements as detailed in the County Stormwater Design Manual.
   (B)   Water quality BMPs are not required for the following projects:
      (1)   Land-disturbing activities where there will be no additional
impervious surfaces associated with the final completed project;
      (2)   Single-family residential strip development offered for sale or
lease without land improvements and the project is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale;
      (3)   Individual residential building lots within a permitted project
site;
      (4)   Residential developments consisting of four or fewer lot
developments where the proposed impervious surfaces are 10% or less of the
project acreage. Impervious is determined by the sum of all infrastructure
(roads, paths, parking, etc.) and the average projects hard surfaces associated
with all building lots within the project; or
      (5)   Single-family residences and private ponds that are not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale.
   (C)   Water quality considerations shall be incorporated in the submitted
SWMPs and specifications in accordance with the County Stormwater Design Manual
to fulfill the following requirements:
      (1)   Pretreatment requirements. Every stormwater treatment practice
shall have an acceptable form of water quality pretreatment, in accordance with
the pretreatment requirements found in the current County Stormwater Design
Manual. Stormwater infiltration practices, or practices having an infiltration
component, as specified in the County Stormwater Design Manual, are prohibited,
even with pretreatment, in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Where stormwater is generated from highly contaminated source
areas as identified by the IDEM, USEPA, or the County Surveyor's Office;
         (b)   Where stormwater is carried in a conveyance system that also
carries contaminated, non-stormwater discharges;
         (c)   Where stormwater is being managed in a designated groundwater
recharge or well head protection area;
         (d)   Under certain geologic conditions (e.g., karst) that prohibit
the proper pretreatment of stormwater.
      (2)   Treatment/geometry conditions. All stormwater management practices
shall be designed to capture and treat stormwater runoff according to the
specifications outlined in the County Stormwater Design Manual. These
specifications will designate the water quality treatment and water quantity
criteria that apply to an approved stormwater management practices.
      (3)   New retail gasoline outlets and refueling areas or those that
replace their existing tank systems, regardless of size, are required to
install appropriate measures to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic
hydrocarbons in storm water runoff.
      (4)   Infiltration practices will not be allowed in wellhead protection
areas as the primary water quality treatment measure, unless the measure is
designed to treat the pollutant(s) of concern that originate in the drainage
area of the measure.
      (5)   Discharges from new development and redevelopment sites will not be
allowed directly into karst features without pre-treatment.
      (6)   Outfalls must be designed to reduce outfall scouring and bank
erosion.
      (7)   Detention ponds require an upstream water quality practice.
Forebays are not permitted.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.09 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   Construction activities required as part of land development necessitate the
removal of natural ground cover, creating the potential for erosion to occur.
To minimize the movement of soil off site and its impact on water quality and
on the ability of stormwater facilities to continue functioning properly, the
following are required:
   (A)   All persons who cause, in whole or in part, any earth change to occur
shall provide soil erosion and sedimentation control so as to adequately reduce
the potential for soil to be eroded and discharged or deposited onto adjacent
properties or into a stormwater drainage system, a public street or right of
way, wetland, creek, stream, waterbody, or floodplain.
   (B)   All development shall be in accordance with all applicable federal,
state and local ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (C)   Prior to making any earth change on a development site regulated by
this subchapter, the developer shall first obtain an erosion control permit or
SWMPA. The developer shall install stormwater runoff facilities and shall phase
the development activities so as to reduce the potential for polluted
construction site stormwater runoff and off-site sedimentation.
   (D)   Projects requiring SWMPA shall refer to the County Stormwater Design
Manual for requirements.
   (E)   Projects requiring an erosion control permit shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Submittal and approval of erosion control application and fee.
      (2)   Submittal and approval of plan sheets and associated details
showing the following:
         (a)   Existing and proposed site conditions including one foot
contours;
         (b)   Stormwater conveyances;
         (c)   Drainage flow arrows;
         (d)   Utilities;
         (e)   Building footprints;
         (f)   Streets, drives, and parking areas;
         (g)   Easements, rights-of-way, and property lines;
         (h)   Perimeter control measures;
         (i)   Temporary construction entrance/ drive and measures to minimize
sediment and soil discharge and tracking;
         (j)   Concrete washout;
         (k)   Soil stabilization measures for bare soils on site;
         (l)   Soil stabilization for disturbed soils adjacent to site;
         (m)   Inlet protection; and
         (n)   Stabilization measures for steep slopes.
   (F)   If the owner or operator is required to prepare a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as required by the CSGP, such plan shall be deemed to
fulfill the soil erosion and sedimentation control requirements of this
section. In this case, all applicable state and federal permits or notices for
land disturbing activities shall be obtained or filed prior to commencement of
land disturbing activities. All applicable state or federal standards shall be
adhered to when conducting land disturbing activities. Copies of all
applications, notice of intent submittals, plans and other erosion and sediment
control related information developed for and/or submitted to state or federal
authorities shall be copied to the county in addition to the SWPPP. In
addition, the following shall be posted at the project site: a copy of the NOI,
the NPDES permit number(s), and the location of the SWPPP.
   (G)   During all construction activities on the development site, the county
or their designated representative may inspect the development site to ensure
compliance with the approved construction site runoff controls.
   (H)   Projects equal to or greater than half acres shall submit the
following for erosion control permit approval.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 52.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The county or their designated representative may inspect to ensure
compliance with this subchapter. In the case of non-compliance with this
subchapter or the Stormwater Design Manual, the county has the right to issue
abatement orders, stop work orders, injunctions, and/or revoke stormwater
management plan approvals. The county also has the right to issue fees
according to the Drainage Board uniform fee schedule. Fees shall be as
referenced in Ordinance 7-3-6.
   (B)   The county may revoke a SWMPA where the submittal packet, plans, and/
or other supporting documents reflect either:
      (1)   A false statement or misrepresentation as to material fact; or
      (2)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this manual.
   (C)   Whenever the county discovers the existence of any of the
circumstances listed below, they are empowered to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the land alteration. The stop-work order shall be in writing and
shall state to what land alteration it is applicable and the reason for its
issuance. One copy of the stop work order shall be posted on the property in a
conspicuous place and one copy shall be delivered to the applicant, and if
conveniently possible to the person doing the land alteration and to the owner
of the property or his agent. The stop work order shall state the conditions
under which land alteration may be resumed. A stop-work order shall be issued
if:
      (1)   Land alteration is occurring in violation of a drainage requirement
and in such manner that if land alteration is allowed to proceed, there is a
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
or
      (2)   Land alteration has been accomplished in violation of a drainage
requirement and 15 calendar days has elapsed since written notice of the
violation or noncompliance was either posted on the property in a conspicuous
place or given to the person doing the land alteration, without the violation
or noncompliance being corrected; or
      (3)   Land alteration for which a SWMPA is required is proceeding without
a SWMPA being in force. In such an instance the stop-work order shall indicate
that the effect of the order terminates when the required SWMPA is obtained.
(Ord. 1-4-17, passed 11-18-2003; Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-21-2024)
ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
§ 52.25 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of the County Surveyor’s
Office, regardless of whether the discharge originates from developed or
undeveloped lands, and regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an
active construction site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows
from direct connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping and
contaminated runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural and timber harvesting activities
is exempted from the requirements of this chapter unless determined to contain
pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of standard
practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   (1)   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES shall mean tillage, planting,
cultivation or harvesting operation for the production of agricultural or
nursery vegetative crops; and includes the pasturing and confined feeding of
livestock, except for livestock operations which are subject to the Indiana
Confined Feeding Control Statute (I.C. 13-18-10). The term also includes
pasture renovation and establishment of the construction of agricultural
conservation practices, and the installation and maintenance of agricultural
drainage tile. For the purposes of this subchapter, the term does not include
land-disturbing activities for the construction of agricultural related
facilities, such as:
         (a)   Barns;
         (b)   Buildings to house livestock;
         (c)   Roads associated with infra-structure;
         (d)   Agricultural waste lagoons and facilities;
         (e)   Lakes and ponds;
         (f)   Wetlands; and
         (g)   Other infrastructure.
      (2)   TIMBER HARVESTING shall mean the act or process of cutting or
gathering trees, standing or felled, and logs. TIMBER HARVESTING shall include
the act or process of cutting or gathering firewood, Christmas trees, fruit or
ornamental trees.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or
order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system,
is also exempted from this chapter.
   (D)   Finally, any construction project which has had its drainage plan
approved by the County Surveyor’s Office prior to the effective date of this
subchapter shall be exempt from all requirements of this subchapter that are in
excess of the requirements of ordinances in effect at the time of approval.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 10-1-1.3, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 52.26 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a waterbody, directly or indirectly, any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge. Any person
discharging stormwater shall effectively prevent pollutants from also being
discharged with the stormwater, through the use of Best Management Practices
(BMPs).
   (B)   The County Surveyor’s Office is authorized to require dischargers to
implement pollution prevention measures, utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent
or reduce the discharge of pollutants into the County Surveyor’s Office’s
stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   The following categories of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted
from the requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Water line flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation;
   (C)   Diverted stream flows;
   (D)   Rising ground waters;
   (E)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (H)   Foundation drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (J)   Irrigation water;
   (K)   Springs;
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (M)   Footing drains;
   (N)   Residential and commercial lawn watering;
   (O)   Individual residential car washing;
   (P)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (Q)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (R)   Street wash water;
   (S)   Discharges from firefighting activities; and
   (T)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g., leaves and twigs).
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.28 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any drainage
way, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly prohibited.
Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material on active construction
sites must include adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any
such materials from entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance
or drainage way.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a drainage way passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the drainage way located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the
flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall
maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.30 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a water body any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the County Emergency Management Agency concerning the discharge. A
written report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the County
Surveyor’s Office, by the discharger(s), within five days.
   (B)   The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The exact date, time and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name of a person who may be contacted for additional information on the
matter.
   (C)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this section against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered PROPERLY REPORTED only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.31 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The County Surveyor’s Office will periodically
inspect the portion of the storm drainage system under the County Surveyor’s
Office’s control, in an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections and
discharges into the system. This inspection will include a screening of
discharges from outfalls connected to the system in order to determine if
prohibited flows are being conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could
also include spot testing of waters contained in the storm drainage system
itself to detect the introduction of pollutants into the system by means other
than a defined outfall, such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the County
Surveyor’s Office may inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater
runoff facilities of the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the
requirements of this section. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the
County Surveyor’s Office’s properly identified representative to enter upon the
premises of the discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such
inspection or sampling. The County Surveyor’s Office shall provide the
discharger reasonable advance notice of such inspection and/or sampling. The
County Surveyor’s Office or its properly identified representative may place on
the discharger’s property the equipment or devices used for such sampling or
inspection. Identified illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to
enforcement action as described in §§
52.32 through
52.37 and §
52.99.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following approval of final
stormwater plans by the County Surveyor’s Office, new development and re-
development sites shall be inspected by the County Surveyor’s Office’s properly
identified representative. This inspection will be to ensure all on-site
stormwater conveyances and connections to the storm drainage system are in
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.32 ENFORCEMENT; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of this section, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the local zoning ordinances is also necessary.
Compliance with all applicable ordinances of the County Surveyor’s Office as
well as with applicable state statutes and regulations shall also be required.
   (B)   Unless otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this
section shall be the most recent edition available.
   (C)   Violations of the requirements of this section are subject to the
penalties listed in §
52.99.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties listed in §
52.99, if construction activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of
this section or approved final stormwater management plans, the County
Surveyor’s Office may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
person engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the County
Surveyor’s Office to proceed with the work.
   (B)   The County Surveyor’s Office may also undertake or cause to be
undertaken any necessary or advisable protective measures to prevent violations
of this section or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance herewith.
   (C)   The cost of any such protective measures shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the property upon which the work is being done and the
responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.34 FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
   In addition to any other remedies, should any person fail to comply with the
provisions of this section, the County Surveyor’s Office may, after the giving
of reasonable notice and opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work
done, and the owner shall be obligated to promptly reimburse the County
Surveyor’s Office for all costs of such work.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.35 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergency situations. The County Surveyor’s Office
may, without prior notice, suspend storm drain system discharge access to a
person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the storm drain
system or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the storm
drain system or waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm drain system in violation of this section may have his
or her storm drain system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The County Surveyor’s Office will notify a
violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may
petition the County Surveyor’s Office for a reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.36 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the County Surveyor’s Office from
taking such other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible. Costs include, but are not limited to, repairs to the storm drain
system made necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by
the EPA or IDEM for violation of the County Surveyor’s Office’s NPDES permit,
reasonable attorney fees and other costs and expenses.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.37 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person to whom any provision of this section has been applied may
appeal in writing, not later than 30 days after the action or decision being
appealed from, to the County Drainage Board the action or decision whereby any
such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall identify the matter being
appealed, and the basis for the appeal.
   (B)   The County Drainage Board shall consider the appeal and make a
decision whereby it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In
considering any such appeal, the County Drainage Board may consider the
recommendations of the County Surveyor’s Office and the comments of other
persons having knowledge of the matter.
   (C)   In considering any such appeal, the County Drainage Board may grant a
variance from the terms of this section to provide relief, in whole or in part,
from the action being appealed, but only upon finding that the following
requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the section provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the section; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not prevent the goals and
purposes of this section, nor result in less effective management of stormwater
runoff.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found in violation of any provision of §§
52.25 through
52.37 shall be responsible for a civil infraction, and subject to a fine of not
less than $500 for a first offense, and not less than $1,000 for a subsequent
offense, plus costs, damages, expenses, reasonable attorney fees and costs as
may be imposed in the discretion of the court.
      (2)   Each day such violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a
separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the imposition of a
fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this section are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
      (3)   An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt
the offender from compliance with the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of §§
52.25 through
52.37 shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
      (5)   For purposes of this section and §§
52.25 through
52.37, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.37 committed by the same person within 12 months of a previous violation of
the same provision of §§
52.25 through
52.37 for which said person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be
responsible.
   (C)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop-work order
shall be found to be in violation of §
52.33, and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000 and such person
shall also pay all court costs, reasonable attorney fees and such costs as may
be imposed at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 10-1-1.2, passed 12-5-2005)
CHAPTER 53: SEWAGE WORKS USE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Sewer Department
   
53.02   Rates and charges
Onsite Sewage System Provisions and Regulations
   
53.15   Title and purpose
   
53.16   Incorporation by reference
   
53.17   Definitions
   
53.18   Licensing of installers
   
53.19   Onsite sewage system permit
   
53.20   OSS permit requirements and plan submittal
   
53.21   Repairs
   
53.22   Inspections
   
53.23   Connection to sanitary sewer
   
53.24   Connection to existing OSS
   
53.25   Remodel of existing home with no addition to the number of bedrooms
   
53.26   Violation
   
53.27   Procedure for appeal
   
53.28   Remedies
   
53.29   Fee schedule
   
53.30   Conflict
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established an agency of the county known as the
County Sewer Department (the “Department”), which shall be administered by a
board known as the County Sewer Board (the “Board”). The Board shall consist of
three members, such members to be the members of the Board of Commissioners, or
a designated representative of any such member.
   (B)   The Department shall be operated through a contract with a vendor
selected by the Board of Commissioners. User rates will be established for the
works sufficient to pay debt service on any indebtedness undertaken by the
county and to pay adequate consideration to the vendor for operation of the
works.
   (C)   The Board shall have the same powers as a “board” as defined in I.C.
36-9-23-4 with respect to the management of the sewage works of the county
including, without limitation, authority to establish rules and regulations
regarding the use of such sewage works.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the Board of Commissioners and compliance with the procedures
required by law.
(Ord. 7-4-1, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 53.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works in the
service area, rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and
every lot, parcel of real estate or building that is connected with the
county’s sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, water or
other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the county’s sanitary sewage
system.
   (B)   The monthly charge for all users shall be $16.26 once the sewage works
project is completed and providing service to the service area. Sewage service
bills shall be rendered once each month (or period equaling a month).
   (C)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
county, or its vendor designee, in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
      (1)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties
served, which are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to
examine the collection records of the county for the purpose of determining
whether bills have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such
examination shall be made at the office at which said records are kept and
during the hours that such office is open for business.
      (2)   All rates and charges not paid when due are hereby declared to be
delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates or charges shall
thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates or charges shall be paid
is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
(Ord. 7-4-2, passed 7-2-2007)
ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 53.15 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter repeals County Health Department Ordinances 1979-4 and
4-3-3.1.
   (B)   This subchapter regulates the location, installation, construction,
maintenance and replacement of all residential and commercial onsite sewage
systems in the county and provides for the administration and enforcement of
the provisions contained herein, and fixes penalties for violation.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “County Onsite
Sewage System Ordinance”.
   (D)   The general purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health,
safety and welfare and to further the following related specific objectives:
      (1)   To preserve and improve the environmental quality of the county;
      (2)   To minimize and eliminate contamination of ground and surface water
resources; and
      (3)   To control the utilization of private onsite sewage systems based
on the limitations of the site for such use as determined by a soil profile
analysis based on the criteria set forth by the Natural Resource Conservation
Service.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.16 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The following documents are incorporated by reference as a part of this
subchapter and shall include any later amendments, repeals, and replacements to
those regulations as the same are published in the Indiana Administrative Code
with the effective dates as fixed herein:
   (A)   The requirements found in Rule 410 I.A.C. § 6-8.2;
   (B)   Bulletin SE 11, The Sanitary Vault Privy, 1986 Edition, as amended or
updated; and
   (C)   Rule 410 I.A.C. § 6-10, Bulletin SE 13, Commercial Onsite Wastewater
Disposal.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.17 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as provided below, the terms defined in Rule 410 I.A.C. §§ 6-8.2-1 et
seq. and Rule 410 I.A.C. §§ 6-10-1 et seq. shall carry the same definition
whenever used in this subchapter as the definition provided in those
regulations. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health having jurisdiction in the county.
   DORMANT. An OSS which has not been used for a period of time sufficient
enough to lower the hydraulic load on the system.
   IOWPA. The Indiana Onsite Wastewater Professional’s Association.
   ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM or OSS. All equipment and devices necessary for the
proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment and onsite disposal of sewage
from a residence or commercial facility.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM FAILURE. A residential on-site sewage system that
exhibits one or more of the following:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design
application thereby interfering with the normal use of residential plumbing
fixtures;
      (2)   Effluent discharge exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil,
resulting in ponding, seepage or other discharge of the effluent to the ground
surface or to surface waters; and/or
      (3)   Effluent is discharged from the system causing contamination of a
potable water supply, ground water or surface waters.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.18 LICENSING OF INSTALLERS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the installation or repair of an onsite sewage
system shall obtain an installer’s license from the County Health Department.
      (1)   The person must complete an application.
      (2)   Submit to a written open book examination given by the County
Health Department, which will cover state and local regulations governing OSS,
and receive a score of 70% or greater. A person who participated in IOWPA’s
training and testing and successfully passed his or her certification test will
not be required to submit to a written examination given by the County Health
Department if documentation of the IOWPA certification is furnished to the
County Health Department.
      (3)   If the person fails the examination, the person may re-apply for an
installers license and examination no earlier than one month following the
previous examination date.
   (B)   Once the criteria in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above are met,
the applicant shall pay a set fee for such license as found in the County
Health Department fee schedule ordinance, which is codified in §
31.02.
      (1)   Such license shall be valid for three years, and is non-
transferable. The license shall bear the name and address of the company, the
name of the licensee and the expiration date.
      (2)   The licensee shall maintain in his or her possession, during the
installation of onsite sewage systems, a copy of the permit, a copy of the
installer’s license and a copy of the septic design approved by the County
Health Department.
      (3)   A homeowner that wishes to install an onsite sewage system on his
or her own property must submit to an examination, which will cover state and
local regulations of OSS.
   (C)   The County Health Officer or the County Environmental Health
Specialist may remove the name of any person from the list of county registered
installers who have demonstrated an inability or unwillingness to comply with
all County Health Department and/or all State Department of Health rules,
regulations and ordinances. The County Health Officer or a County Environmental
Health Specialist must first give such person written notice of his or her
intention to take such action, and the reason(s) for such action. The affected
person has a right to a hearing before the County Health Officer or a County
Environmental Health Specialist if the person makes written request to the
County Health Officer within ten days of receipt of the notice. The person may
appeal an adverse decision to the County Health Board by sending written notice
of appeal to the County Health Officer within ten days of receipt of the Health
Officer’s decision. All notices, whether by the Health Officer, the
Environmental Health Specialist or the affected person, must be delivered in
person or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. In all cases, a
receipt must be obtained that indicates the date and to whom the notice was
delivered.
   (D)   Once removed, such person may not engage in the installation,
construction or repair of any sewage disposal system or equipment in the county
until such person complies with the requirements of this division. Said person
must also satisfactorily demonstrate his or her ability and willingness to
comply with these regulations and post a surety bond with the County Board of
Health, with the surety acceptable by said Board, in the penal sum of not less
than $5,000. This bond must be in favor of the County Board of Health
conditioned upon the registrant’s faithful compliance with this subchapter and
with the rules and regulations which may be established periodically by the
County Board of Health relating to the installation of sewage disposal devices
or equipment.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.19 ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner or agent of the owner shall obtain a written permit from the
County Health Department, signed by the Health Officer, for the construction of
a residential or commercial OSS prior to the following:
      (1)   The start of construction on a residence or placement of a mobile
home that will not be connected to a sanitary sewer system;
      (2)   Any replacement, reconstruction, expansion or remodeling of a
residence that may increase the number of bedrooms. If the County Health
Department determines that it has on file a permit showing that the current OSS
will handle the overall design daily flow, a permit will not be required; and
      (3)   Any addition to, alteration of or repair of an existing OSS unless
deemed unnecessary by the County Health Department.
   (B)   The owner shall obtain all necessary federal, state and local permits
and approvals before construction begins on an OSS.
   (C)   Any proposed changes, alterations or additions to an OSS plan
submittal for which a permit has already been issued shall be approved by the
County Health Department prior to implementation of the changes.
   (D)   An OSS permit shall expire upon compliance of the OSS installation, or
within two years of the issue date, whichever comes first.
   (E)   The owner or agent shall request an inspection by the County Health
Department at least two working days before any portion of the OSS is covered.
   (F)   The septic installer or company shall notify the County Health
Department the day of beginning excavation on the OSS.
   (G)   The Health Department may modify or revoke a permit which it has
issued. The reasons for modification or revocation include, but are not limited
to, any of the following:
      (1)   The soil absorption field site has been disturbed or altered after
collection of information for the written site evaluation report. Disturbance
or alteration of the site includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The addition of fill material;
         (b)   The cutting, scraping or removal of soil; and
         (c)   The compaction of the site.
      (2)   False information has been submitted to obtain a permit;
      (3)   Information submitted in the written site evaluation report, plot
plan or OSS plan is found to be erroneous;
      (4)   Errors or omissions are discovered after the permit has been
issued;
      (5)   The OSS does not comply with the requirements of 410 I.A.C. § 6-
8.2, 410 I.A.C. § 6-10 and all of the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (6)   The owner or agent of the owner failed to request an inspection by
the Health Department at least two working days before any portion of the OSS
was covered.
   (H)   If a permit is revoked or modified, the owner shall be advised, in
writing, of the basis for the modification or revocation, the right for appeal
and the deadline for appeal.
   (I)   If a permit has been revoked, the following shall occur for a new
permit to be issued:
      (1)   The owner shall provide, as necessary, a revised site evaluation
and a revised plot plan and OSS plan.
      (2)   The proposed OSS shall comply with the requirements of 410 I.A.C. §
6-8.2, 410 I.A.C. § 6-10 and all of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   If a permit is revoked, construction may not proceed on the OSS, or
the residence or commercial facility it serves, until a new permit is issued.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.20 OSS PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN SUBMITTAL.
   The following requirements must be met before the issuance of a permit for
an OSS:
   (A)   A completed application;
   (B)   A written site evaluation report, performed by an IRSS certified soil
science consultant, containing soil absorption field site characteristics, a
soil profile report, and the soil profile characteristics, which include at
least two soil borings per septic site, unless more borings are deemed
necessary by the Health Department;
   (C)   A plot plan that includes:
      (1)   Legal description of the property;
      (2)   Property boundaries; and
      (3)   Utility and drainage easements.
   (D)   An OSS plan that includes:
      (1)   A drawing of the OSS site or a sketch of the onsite system on a
copy of the plat with measurements, identification of the OSS on the property
and required consultation with the local health department;
      (2)   Property boundaries;
      (3)   Footprint of all structures (existing and proposed);
      (4)   Setbacks and separation distances required herein;
      (5)   Identification of all existing and proposed water supply wells
within 100 feet of the OSS;
      (6)   Location of all soil borings; and
      (7)   One hundred-year flood elevations as determined by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) and identification of all portions of
the property at and below the 100-year flood elevation may be required.
   (E)   Detailed floor plan of the residence;
   (F)   Detailed cross section of the soil absorption field and the subsurface
drainage system;
   (G)   Elevation of exposed working outlet of perimeter drain; and
   (H)   Any additional information that is deemed necessary by the County
Health Officer.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.21 REPAIRS.
   The Health Officer by issuing a permit to repair a private sewage disposal
system does acknowledge that the system may not meet all requirements of the
county or the State Department of Health. The Health Officer does recognize
that a number of older private sewage disposal systems in the county cannot
meet current requirements due to site or system limitations and that proposals
for repair must make the best use of the available space and must meet
acceptable standards in the interests of public health.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.22 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties at reasonable times to ensure compliance with this subchapter to:
inspect facilities, equipment or records, investigate allegations, determine
soil characteristics, conduct tests and collect samples.
   (B)   The Health Officer or designee shall inspect each OSS, for which a
permit is required under provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   No portion of the OSS shall be covered before an inspection can take
place.
   (D)   The permit shall be signed in compliance prior to the utilization of
the OSS.
   (E)   The Health Officer or designee shall make the inspection within two
working days of the receipt of notice from the applicant.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.23 CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER.
   If and when a sanitary sewer approved by the State Department of Health or
Indiana Department of Environmental Management is available and within 300 feet
of the property line of the residential or commercial property and the
estimated cost of sewer construction and connection does not exceed 150% of the
estimated cost of an OSS, a direct connection may be required to said sewer,
and all septic tanks shall be abandoned in a safe and sanitary manner as
approved by the County Health Department. Such direct connection shall be
completed by the owner and/or the occupant of the premises or their agents
within 90 days after receipt of written notice ordering such action. Failure of
the owner or the occupant to comply with the provisions of this section shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter and the violator shall be subject to
the penalties prescribed in §
53.99.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.24 CONNECTION TO EXISTING OSS.
   Connection to an existing onsite sewage system shall be permitted if the
following conditions are met:
   (A)   The connection will not exceed the DDF for the OSS;
   (B)   The existing system has not met the definition of an “OSS failure”;
   (C)   The existing system has been permitted and approved for use by the
County Health Department. In the absence of an approved permit, hydraulic
testing as described in §
53.25 may be undertaken subject to best judgment of the County Health Officer
or his or her designee; and
   (D)   In the event that a system enlargement is proposed, the enlargement
must bring the existing system into compliance with the minimum standards of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.25 REMODEL OF EXISTING HOME WITH NO ADDITION TO THE NUMBER OF BEDROOMS.
   Repair of partially destroyed dwellings, routine remodeling or room
additions which do not entail the construction of additional bedrooms, will be
approved or denied based on the following criteria:
   (A)   A site visit by an environmental health specialist indicates no
obvious failure of the OSS;
   (B)   Review of a floor plan which verifies bedroom count against other
available public records (i.e., tax records). If a discrepancy develops
regarding the bedroom count, a homeowner may declare the number of bedrooms by
recorded affidavit supplied to the local health department as set forth in Rule
410 I.A.C. § 6-8.2-6(2);
   (C)   The proposed room addition or remodel must meet the proper setback
requirements for an OSS; and
   (D)   In instances where the OSS has lain dormant for an extended period of
time, the system is suspected to be in failure, or no permit has ever been
issued by the county, hydraulic testing of the system may be required by the
local health department in order to verify the functionality of the OSS.
      (1)   This testing will be comprised of adding water to the existing
septic tank until the liquid level reaches the bottom of the outlet pipe.
      (2)   Dye shall then be added to the tank followed by addition of one-
half the designed daily flow for a dwelling with the indicated number of
bedroom equivalents on three consecutive days.
      (3)   Following this procedure, the site shall be inspected for sewage
and/or dye being discharged at the surface. If no obvious failure is noted the
project may proceed using the existing OSS.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.26 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating this subchapter or State Department
of Health onsite sewage system regulation will first be notified verbally by
the Health Officer or his or her designee with an agreement on the time frame
for correction and re-inspection.
   (B)   If verbal communication is not successful in attaining compliance, the
property owner or onsite sewage company may be served by the Health Officer or
his or her designee with a written order stating the nature of the violation
and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction and re-inspection.
   (C)   After receiving an order in writing from the Health Officer or his or
her designee, the owner of the property shall comply with the provisions of
this subchapter as set forth in said order and within the time limit specified
therein. Said order shall be served on the owner or the agent of the owner, but
may be served on any person who by contract with the owner has assumed the duty
of complying with the provisions of an order.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.27 PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   The County Health Board shall hear appeals incidental to the issuance
and revocation of OSS permits, and installer’s license if, within 15 days
following the date of receipt of an issued OSS permit, OSS permit modification,
notice of OSS permit denial, notice of OSS permit revocation or notice of
revocation of installer’s license, any person aggrieved by such action files a
petition for review concerning such action with the Board.
   (B)   A petition for review shall state:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person making the
request;
      (2)   Identify the interests of the petitioner which is effected by the
OSS permit issuance, denial, modification or revocation;
      (3)   Identify any persons whom the petitioner represents;
      (4)   State with particularity the reasons for the request;
      (5)   State with particularity the issues proposed to be considered; and
      (6)   Include proposed terms or conditions which, in the judgement of the
petitioner, would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of law, governed
by this subchapter, 410 I.A.C. § 6-8.2, 410 I.A.C. § 6-10 or the technical
specifications governing such OSS permits.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.28 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Upon refusal or neglect of any person to correct an unlawful or
unsanitary condition when the abatement of the condition has been ordered in
writing by the Health Officer, or designee or an appeal against the order has
been sustained by the Health Officer, the Health Officer or designee may,
through the office of the county attorney, or an attorney representing the
Health Department, institute proceedings in the judicial court district wherein
the offense occurs for enforcement by prohibitory or mandatory injunction to
restrain any person from violating the provisions of this subchapter. All of
the remedies available to the Department under this subchapter are cumulative
and in addition to any remedies available at law or otherwise. The election of
one or more remedies by the department does not limit or waive the Department’s
ability to pursue any other lawful remedies, whether set forth in this
subchapter or available at law.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.29 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule is adopted as set forth in the County Health Department fee
collection ordinance, and any amendments or revisions hereafter.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.30 CONFLICT.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any code of the county existing on the effective date of
this subchapter, the provisions which establish the higher standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.
In any case where a provision of any other code of the county existing on the
effective date of this subchapter which establishes a lower standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people, they are
hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this rule or State Department
of Health onsite sewage system rules and regulations shall be fined for the
first offense not more than $500 per day; for the second and each subsequent
offense not more than $1,000 per day. Any person constructing, installing,
replacing, altering or repairing any OSS who is not certified in the county
shall be deemed to be in violation of this subchapter. Each day after the
expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary conditions and completing
improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by the County Health
Department shall constitute a distinct and separate offense. Further, any
person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be liable to the County
Health Department for any expense, loss, damages or attorney fees occasioned by
the County Health Department for reason of the violation.
   (B)   In the event that any onsite sewage system installed does not meet
compliance with this subchapter, after the expiration of the time limit for
correction, the installer shall be fined for the first offense not more than
$500 per day and/or license may be suspended. For the second offense, after the
expiration of the time limit for correction, the installer shall be fined not
more than $1,000 per day and by revocation of license.
(Ord. 4-3-3.2, passed 4-2-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS
      
72.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption by reference
§ 70.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The traffic provisions of the county, set out on an Appendix, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at
length herein. This Appendix is in the office of the County Auditor.
CHAPTER 71: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS
Section
   
71.01   Statement of purpose and policy
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Regulation of equipment
   
71.04   Rules of operation
   
71.05   Exemptions
   
71.06   Implementation
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public order, safety, and personal
responsibility with respect to the operation of golf carts on county highways
and county roads in Morgan County, Indiana. All provisions shall be liberally
construed consistently with this purpose and policy.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY OR COUNTY ROAD. Any public right-of-way under the
jurisdiction of Morgan County, Indiana. This does not include public rights-of-
way under the jurisdiction of the State of Indiana and the Indiana Department
of Transportation ("INDOT") as well as public rights-of-way under the
jurisdiction of the incorporated cities or towns located within Morgan County.
For the purposes of this chapter, county highway and county road are
synonymous.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A license valid for the operation of a motor vehicle on
public roads and
highways in the State of Indiana, whether issued by Indiana or another state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by Indiana law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the State of Indiana.
   GOLF CART. A four wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and/or golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 71.03 REGULATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   Any golf cart moved, operated or driven upon a highway or road in Morgan
County in accordance with this chapter and I.C. 9-21-1-3(a)(14) and I.C. 9-21-
1-3.3(a), shall have the following equipment permanently affixed to the golf
cart:
   (A)   Rear-view mirror;
   (B)   Operational brakes;
   (C)   A triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem mounted as near as is
practicable to the center of mass and at an approximate height of not less than
three and not more than five feet from level ground or pavement surface. The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be entirely visible from the rear, day, or
night. The emblem and the emblem's position of mounting on the vehicle must
meet the specifications established by rules adopted by the Indiana criminal
justice institute and I.C. 9-21-9.
   (D)   The golf cart must be equipped with two operating headlights and two
operating taillights that are visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet
to the rear.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Operator. Any person who operates a golf cart upon a county road shall
be at least 16 years of age and shall have a valid Indiana driver's license and
shall.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Any person who operates a golf cart upon a
county road shall have financial responsibility and provide proof of financial
responsibility for said golf cart as defined above and in accordance with this
chapter and the laws of the State of Indiana.
   (C)   Occupants. The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to
the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the
golf cart. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and
no part of the body of the operator or any occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is being operated. No one under
the age of eight years is allowed to ride on the back seat of the golf cart
unless accompanied by an adult.
   (D)   Compliance with traffic laws and ordinances. All golf carts shall
operate cautiously and courteously, and shall comply with all traffic laws and
ordinances of the county and the State of Indiana.
   (E)   Permitted roads. 
      (1)   Operation of golf carts is permitted on all county highways and
county roads, subject to all local ordinances, state laws, state regulations,
and all requirements contained in this chapter.
      (2)   The following county highways and county roads are exempt from this
chapter and no golf cart shall be operated on or upon the following:
         (a)   Henderson Ford Road;
         (b)   Blue Bluff Road;
         (c)   Hadley Road;
         (d)   Mann Road;
         (e)   Greencastle Road;
         (f)   Landersdale Road;
         (g)   Baltimore Road; and
         (h)   Any county highway or county road that has a posted speed limit
of 35 miles per hour (mph) or greater.
   (F)   Negligence prohibited. No person shall operate a golf cart in
negligent or reckless manner so as to endanger the person or property of
another or to cause injury or damage thereto.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Employees, agents, and officials of Morgan County Government, or other
individuals in the discretion of the Morgan County Sheriff, while engaged in
county government business, are exempt from the application of this chapter.
   (B)   Parades, festivals and special events. Subject to the discretion of
the Morgan County Sheriff, temporary exceptions to the rules set forth in this
chapter may be granted to official participants in parades, festivals, and
other special events.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 71.06 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Conflicts and severability. The provisions of this chapter are
intended to be supplemental to the laws of the State of Indiana and to the
extent that they may conflict with said laws, the laws of the State of Indiana
shall control. Should any provision of this chapter be found by a court to be
invalid, the remainder of the chapter shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   Construction. All terms of this chapter, unless defined or otherwise
apparent from the context in which they are used, shall be construed in terms
of their plain and ordinary meaning. Masculine terms shall be construed so as
to include the feminine and singular terms shall include the plural.
   (C)   Repeal and effective date. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in
conflict with this chapter are hereby repealed and this chapter shall be
effective upon publication as by law required.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any act or omission that results in a failure to comply with or to maintain
compliance with any of the requirements herein constitutes an ordinance
violation and a Class C infraction, in addition to any other penalty imposed in
accordance with Indiana law regulating traffic and use of public roadways. A
person convicted of violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $250 per violation. Each day that any of the provisions of this chapter
is violated constitutes a separate offense and violator shall be fined an
additional fine not to exceed $250 per day, plus court costs. All fines and
fees shall be payable to Morgan County and paid to the Morgan County Treasurer.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-2-2020)
CHAPTER 72: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Off-road vehicles; permitted roads
   
72.03   Registration
   
72.04   Financial responsibility
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All terms
of this chapter, unless defined or otherwise apparent from the context in which
they are used, shall be construed in terms of their plain and ordinary meaning.
Masculine terms shall be construed so as to include the feminine and singular
terms shall include the plural.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motorized, off-highway vehicle that:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
         (c)   Is designed for travel on at least three non-highway or off-
highway tires;
         (d)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals;
         (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
         (f)   Has handlebars for steering control.
      (2)   The term includes parts, equipment, or attachments sold with the
vehicle.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY. Any public way for vehicular traffic, including the area
within the right-of-way located within the unincorporated areas of Morgan
County and not maintained or owned by the State of Indiana or the United
States. A public way means the entire width between the boundary lines of a
way:
      (1)   That is publicly maintained; and
      (2)   When any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   DEPARTMENT. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel:
         (a)   Without benefit of a road; and
         (b)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland,
or other natural terrain.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   A multiwheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle;
         (b)   An amphibious machine;
         (c)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle;
         (d)   An all-terrain vehicle (as defined herein);
         (e)   A recreational off-highway vehicle (as defined herein); and
         (f)   Other means of transportation deriving motive power from a
source other than muscle or wind.
      (3)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   A farm vehicle being used for farming, including, but not
limited to, a farm wagon (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-60(a)(2));
         (b)   A vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes;
         (c)   A construction, mining, or other industrial related vehicle used
in performance of the vehicle's common function, including, but not limited to,
a farm wagon (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-60(a)(3));
         (d)   A snowmobile (as defined herein);
         (e)   A registered aircraft;
         (f)   Any other vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles;
         (g)   Any watercraft that is registered under Indiana statutes; and
         (h)   A golf cart vehicle.
   OPERATE. To:
      (1)   Ride in or on; and
      (2)   Be in actual physical control of the operation of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. An individual who:
      (1)   Operates; or
      (2)   Is in actual physical control of an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, who:
      (1)   Has the property in or title to; and
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of; an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motorized, off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 64 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
      (3)   Is designed for travel on at least four non-highway or off-highway
tires;
      (4)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals;
      (5)   Has a nonstraddle seat or saddle; and
      (6)   Has a steering wheel for steering control.
   SNOWMOBILE. A motor driven vehicle:
      (1)   Designed for travel primarily on snow or ice; and
      (2)   Of a type that uses:
         (a)   Sled type runners or skis;
         (b)   An endless belt tread; or
         (c)   Any combination of these or other similar means of contact with
the surface upon which the vehicle is operated.
(Ord. 2012-6-1-15, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 72.02 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES; PERMITTED ROADS.
   An off-road vehicle may be operated on or upon a county highway located
within Morgan County, subject to all local ordinances, state laws, state
regulations and all requirements contained in this chapter. The following
county highways, are exempt from this chapter and no off-road vehicle shall be
operated on or upon the following county highways:
   (A)   Henderson Ford Road;
   (B)   Blue Bluff Road;
   (C)   Hadley Road;
   (D)   Mann Road;
   (E)   Greencastle Road;
   (F)   Landersdale Road; and
   (G)   Baltimore Road.
(Ord. 2012-6-1-15, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 72.03 REGISTRATION.
   No off-road vehicle shall be operated on or upon a county highway, unless
properly registered with the Department, as required under I.C. 14-16-1, et
seq.
(Ord. 2012-6-1-15, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 72.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   A person may not operate an off-road vehicle on or upon a county
highway if financial responsibility is not in effect with respect to the off-
road vehicle. A person who operates said vehicle must provide proof of
financial responsibility as required by I.C. 9-25, et seq. All definitions set
forth in I.C. 9-25 shall apply to this section, except that any reference to
“motor vehicle” shall include the definition of “off-road vehicle”, as set
forth in § 72.01. The definition of “proof of financial responsibility” shall
be as set forth below:
   (B)   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY means proof of ability to respond in
damages for each motor vehicle registered by a person for liability that arises
out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of the motor vehicle in the following
amounts:
      (1)   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) because of bodily injury to
or death of any one person;
      (2)   Subject to the limit in division (B)(1), $300,000 because of bodily
injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident; and
      (3)   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) because of injury to or
destruction of property in any one accident.
(Ord. 2012-6-1-15, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall
be fined $100 per violation. Each violation shall constitute a separate
offense. Any law enforcement officer may enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-6-1-15, passed 12-17-2012)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
91.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   PARADES AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS
      
94.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
95.   ROAD NUMBERING AND NAMING
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   POOLS AND SPAS
CHAPTER 90: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Local alarms
   
90.04   Testing of equipment
   
90.05   False alarms and fires
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to reduce the number
of false alarms activated by private emergency alarm systems, and to provide a
more effective means of dealing with servicing calls from private emergency
alarm systems.
(Ord. 1-4-7.7, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM CONDITIONS. Alarms activated by unlawful violation of a user’s
property or other violations that the systems were designed to protect against,
acts of God, other violent conditions or by outside agencies of external forces
not under the control of the owner, lessee or his or her employee or agent.
   ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER. Any person, firm or corporation that sells, leases
or installs automatic protection devices which transmit alarms upon receipt of
a stimulus from a detection apparatus or manually operated system.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices such as a solid state
unit, arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention
and to which police or fire departments are expected to respond. ALARM SYSTEM
does not include an alarm installed on a vehicle. This section does include
alarms with an externally audible alert.
   ALARM USER. Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained
within the county, except for alarm systems on motor vehicles. Also included
are those systems which employ an audible signal emitting sounds or a flashing
light or beacon designed to alert or signal persons outside the premises.
   CENTRAL STATION. A facility whose purpose is to monitor incoming alarm
signals 24 hours a day and relay the signal information to the appropriate
authorities.
   COUNTY. The County of Morgan, Indiana.
   DIRECT LINE. A telephone line or other line leading directly into the
communications center of the County Sheriff’s Department that is for use only
to report signals on a person-to-person basis.
   FALSE ALARMS. The activation of an alarm system caused by improper
operation, negligence of the owner or lessee or his or her employee or agent or
equipment malfunction.
   LOCAL ALARMS. A signaling system which, when activated, causes an audible
and/or visual signaling device to be activated in or on the premises within
which the system is installed.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or society,
but such term does not include the county.
   PUBLIC TRUNKLINE. A telephone line leading into the Sheriff’s Department
Communications Center for the purpose of handling emergency and administrative
calls on a person-to-person basis.
   SHERIFF. The duly elected Sheriff of Morgan County or his or her authorized
representative.
   SIGNALING DEVICE. An electrically operated instrument which automatically
sends visual and/or audible signals to be registered by indicators at a monitor
panel at the receiving terminal or central station.
(Ord. 1-4-7.7, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 90.03 LOCAL ALARMS.
   Local alarms with an externally audible alert shall not make a sound similar
to that of civil defense or weather-related warning systems, and such alarms in
residential districts must have an automatic cutoff after 15 minutes of
sounding.
(Ord. 1-4-7.7, passed 3-17-2003) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 TESTING OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No alarm system designed to transmit alarm conditions directly to the
County Sheriff’s Department shall be tested or demonstrated without first
notifying the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   Notification is not required to test or demonstrate alarm devices not
transmitting alarm conditions directly to the County Sheriff’s Department,
unless the alarm conditions are to be relayed to the Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   Failure to notify the County Sheriff’s Department Communications prior
to testing an alarm shall constitute a false alarm.
(Ord. 1-4-7.7, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 90.05 FALSE ALARMS AND FIRES.
   Any alarm having false alarms at a specific site within a calendar year
shall be subject to warning and/or fines, depending on the number of false
alarms at that specific site.
 
Number of False Alarms Action Taken
1 to 3                 Written notice or warning letter
4 to 5                 Fine not to exceed $25
6 to 10                Fine not to exceed $50
Above 10               $50 fine for each false alarm
 
(Ord. 1-4-7.7, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined in accordance with the table in §
90.05. Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects
or refuses to comply with or who resists enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter (other than as set forth in § 90.05) shall be fined not less
than $25 and no more than $500) for each offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The Sheriff, or his or her deputy, may cite a person, firm or
corporation for violation of this chapter and issue that person, firm or
corporation notice of the violation. Any fine for violation of this chapter may
be paid within ten days after receiving notice of a violation at the County
Sheriff’s Department. Any fines which are not paid within ten days of receipt
of the notice of violation may be referred to the County Attorney or County
Prosecutor for prosecution in the County Superior or Circuit Court or other
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   All fines collected by the County Sheriff’s Department under this
chapter shall be forwarded by the Sheriff’s Department to the County Treasurer
for deposit in the General Fund.
(Ord. 1-4-7.7, passed 3-17-2003)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
Dog Control
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Enforcement
   
91.03   Impoundment
   
91.04   Redemption
   
91.05   Confinement of dangerous dogs
   
91.06   Rabies control
   
91.07   Exemptions
   
91.08   Investigation
   
91.09   Records
   
91.10   Animal Control Authority
   
91.11   Other animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances, see
Chapter 94
DOG CONTROL
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the property
of his or her owner, is not restrained or controlled by a competent person, or
is not actively engaged in hunting under the supervision of a competent person
in a manner consistent with such hunting.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CENTER. The premises designed by County Board of Commissioners
for the purpose of impounding and caring for dogs is the facility of the County
Humane Society.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY shall
consist of the County Board of Commissioners, the County Sheriff and the County
Animal Control Officer (who shall be a non-voting member) and such authorities
shall have the authority as hereafter set forth.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The individual approved by the County Board
of Commissioners to pick up and impound dogs.
   KENNEL. Any person, persons, corporation or other entity engaged in the
commercial business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding dogs.
   OWNER. Any person, persons, corporation or other entity which owns,
possesses, keeps, harbors or willingly allows or permits a dog to be on his,
her, its or their premises.
   SPAYED FEMALE. A female dog which has been operated upon or treated in such
a manner as to prevent conception.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991; Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced primarily by the County
Animal Control Officer in cooperation with the County Sheriff’s Department,
which shall be responsible for receiving calls and dispatching the Animal
Control Officer.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.03 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unlicensed dogs or dogs found running at large may be subject to
impoundment in the County Animal Center. Any such unlicensed dog or dogs found
running at large may be confined by any individual or officer acting for any
municipal corporation, and he or she shall notify the County Sheriff’s
Department or the County Animal Control Officer. If notice is first given to
the County Sheriff’s Department, the County Sheriff’s Department shall then
notify the County Animal Control Officer. In any event, such officer shall, as
soon as conveniently possible, pick up said dog and take the dog to the County
Animal Center, and said dog will be so impounded pursuant to the terms of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any individual may deliver a dog qualifying under the terms of this
chapter to the County Animal Center for such impoundment.
   (C)   In the event unlicensed dogs are found running at large and the
ownership of such dog is known to the Animal Control Officer, such dog need not
be impounded, but the Animal Control Officer may, at his or her discretion,
notify the owner immediately to take control of such animal and, if unlicensed,
to have such dog licensed immediately by the proper authorities, and may, at
his or her discretion, cite the owner of such dog to appear in court to answer
to charges for violation of this chapter or the appropriate state law.
   (D)   Immediately after impoundment, the Animal Control Officer shall notify
any individual whose name appears on the identification of such dog of such
impoundment and the procedures to redeem such animal.
   (E)   All dogs impounded in the County Animal Center shall be held for a
minimum of three days; provided, however, such impoundment may be extended in
event the Animal Control Officer determines there is a likelihood of the owner
being located or for any other reason such officer shall believe proper.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.04 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Any owner shall be entitled to redeem a dog from impoundment upon the
following conditions:
      (1)   The owner establish ownership to the satisfaction of the Animal
Control Officer;
      (2)   If such dog is not licensed, that a license be obtained for such
animal;
      (3)   If such dog is an unspayed female and is not to be used for
breeding purposes, that said animal be spayed within ten days of such
redemption, and that the owner report the spaying of such animal to the Animal
Control Officer within such time frame; and
      (4)   Upon redemption, the person so redeeming such animal shall pay the
sum of not more than $3 per day such animal is impounded to the County Humane
Society; provided, however, any additional expenses incurred in the care of
such animal, such as shots and veterinary care, shall also be charged against
such owner and shall be paid before such animal shall be released.
   (B)   Any animal impounded for more than three days may, at the discretion
of the Animal Control Officer, be humanely destroyed; or, as an option, such
animal may be kept for the purpose of adoption by a qualified individual.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991; Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.05 CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   The owner shall confine and restrain any dog known to be dangerous or
vicious or which has previously attacked or bitten a person or harassed
livestock, and such dog must be kept in a confined area reasonably designed to
prevent contact with individuals or firmly tied in such a manner as to prevent
such animal’s escape. In event of escape, the owner shall be subject to
penalties under this chapter; and, if such dog is impounded, it need not be
returned to its owner, but may be destroyed as provided herein.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.06 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Every dog or animal which bites a person shall be reported to the
County Animal Control Officer, and such animal shall be securely quarantined at
the direction of said officer for a period of no less than ten days and shall,
even then, not be released from the quarantine except by written permission of
the County Animal Control Officer.
      (1)   At the discretion of the County Animal Control Officer, such
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner or at the County Animal Center.
      (2)   If such animal is held at the County Animal Center, it shall be at
the owner’s expense, subject to the fees as heretofore set forth.
      (3)   As a third option, such animal may be kept at a veterinary hospital
operated by a licensed veterinarian.
      (4)   These provisions are supplemental to those created by state laws.
   (B)   Any owner shall, upon order of the County Animal Control Officer,
forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human being or which is
suspected to have been exposed to rabies, and such animal shall be quarantined
as heretofore set forth.
   (C)   When any animal under quarantine has been suspected to have rabies or
is diagnosed to have rabies by a licensed veterinarian and such animal dies
before the quarantine period, the head of such animal shall be removed and sent
to the State Health Department for pathological examination, and all
individuals concerned shall be notified of the results of such report.
   (D)   When there has been a positive diagnosis of rabies, the animal control
authorities shall recommend a county wide quarantine to the County Board of
Commissioners for a period of 30 days and, upon the invoking of such
quarantine, no animal shall be allowed to leave the owner’s property, except
under leash. Such period of quarantine shall be continued from time to time at
the discretion of the County Board of Health, State Board of Health and the
County Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   Any person knowing of an animal having rabies, suspected to have
rabies, or which has had contact with another animal known or suspected to have
rabies shall make known the same to the County Animal Control Officer. This
shall include any licensed veterinarians.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   Any hospital, clinic or other premises operated by a licensed veterinarian
existing for the care and treatment of animals shall be exempt from all
provisions of this chapter, except where such duties are expressly stated.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.08 INVESTIGATION.
   The Animal Control Officer shall have all reasonable rights and authority to
investigate any suspected cases of rabies or other disease which cause a high
degree of risk to animals or human beings.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.09 RECORDS.
   The County Animal Control Officer shall keep accurate records concerning his
or her activities, including all animals impounded by him or her and the time
and place of such impoundment and any reports received by him or her.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.10 ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   The County Animal Control Authority shall have supervisory authority over
the animal center and the Animal Control Officer and shall have authority to
promulgate supplemental rules and regulations within the framework of this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.11 OTHER ANIMALS.
   Other animals may be impounded or held at the animal control center only
upon specific authority of the Animal Control Authority.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined a sum not
to exceed $100, and, if such violation be continued, each day’s violation shall
be a separate offense.
(Ord. 4-2-1, passed 9-16-1991)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
92.10   Exemptions
   
92.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits, as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq.,
as amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission, created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04,
92.05,
92.06,
92.07,
92.08 or
92.09, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of FAMILIAL
STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined below in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   DISABLED.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABLED shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in § 802 of Title 21 of the
United States Code (I.C. 22-9.5-6); nor does the term DISABLED include an
individual solely because that individual is transvestite.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001; Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below,  §
92.10  and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below, and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance, as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001; Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03, and except as exempted by §
92.03(B) and §
92.10 , it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)    For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin; or
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to sue and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.    Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Usable kitchen and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1")
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (H)(3)(c) above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in a substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001; Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person. In the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05 or
92.06.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION Of INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)    Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of
this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be penalized as
provided by federal and state statutes.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001; Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 92.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the
same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in
such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin; nor
shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 92.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-6 the Board of
Commissioners of the county, because of a lack of financial and other resources
necessary to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil
actions under this chapter, herein elect to refer all formal complaints of
violation of the articles of this chapter by Complainants to the State Civil
Rights Commission (“Commission”) for administrative enforcement actions
pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Board of Commissioners of the county shall
refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A)
above to said Commission for the purposes of investigation, resolution and
appropriate relief as provided under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall provide information on
remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such
information.
   (E)   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the
chapter and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly
situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 1-4-10, passed 2-5-2001)
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   License; necessity
   
93.03   License; requirements
   
93.04   License; application procedure
   93.05   Compliance; remedies
 
   
93.99   Penalty
   Appendix A:   Morgan County Mass Gathering Application Form
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLY. Any collection of individuals gathered together at any location at
any one time for any purpose.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company,
association, society, or group.
(Ord. 2020-11b, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 93.02 LICENSE; NECESSITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no person shall permit,
allow, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as an entrepreneur,
undertake, organize, manage, sell or give tickets, or otherwise actively
encourage an assemblage which can reasonably be expected to include more than
5,000 people and reasonably be expected to continue for at least 18 consecutive
hours unless a license to hold the assembly has been issued by the Sheriff. A
license to hold an assembly issued to one person permits any person to engage
in any lawful activity in connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be required to permit
such assembly to the person holding such license, at the time and place
specified in such license, to hold such assembly for any lawful activity.
   (C)   The requirement for such license shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any gathering at any permanent facility or place of worship,
stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, school or other similar
permanent facility established as a place of assembly, so long as such assembly
does not exceed by more than 250 the maximum capacity of such facility;
      (2)   The provision of this chapter shall not apply to government
sponsored fairs located in regularly established fair grounds or to assemblies
required to be licensed by other provisions of the general statutes of the
state or local ordinances;
      (3)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to local or regional
fairs or celebrations or events which are held on an annual or regular basis;
      (4)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any assemblage
which is held on land leased by the state, the federal government, the county
or any city or town; provided, however, that such land owned or leased by any
such city or town is within the boundaries of such city or town;
      (5)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any assembly
sponsored or organized by any governmental unit, arm, or agency;
      (6)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any school or
educational organization;
      (7)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any assembly
which is a reasonable part of a business and is attended principally by regular
employees of such business and the person responsible for such assembly; or
      (8)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any church or
religious organization.
(Ord. 2020-11b, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 93.03 LICENSE; REQUIREMENTS.
   An applicant for a license in accordance with this chapter shall submit an
application as described in §
93.04, which requires verification of all of the following:
   (A)   The applicant shall, in such application, advise of the maximum number
of people that will be assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly.
The maximum number may not exceed the maximum number that can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly. If the assembly is to continue
overnight, the maximum number is not more than is allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by zoning or health ordinances of
the unit;
   (B)   The applicant shall agree to furnish, at his or her expense, potable
water meeting all federal and state requirements for purity in sufficient
quantity to provide the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least one gallon per person per day and water for bathing at the rate of at
least ten gallons per person per day;
   (C)   Separate and closed toilets for males and females meeting all state
and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the area of the
assembly and sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people
to be permitted at the rate of at least one toilet for every 150 females and at
least one toilet for each 200 males together with sufficient sanitary means of
disposing of waste matter deposited which is in compliance with all state and
local laws and regulations. A lavatory with running water under pressure and a
continuous supply of soap and paper towels shall be provided for each toilet;
   (D)   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste in compliance with state
and local laws and ordinances sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production for maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of two and
one-half pounds of solid waste material per person, per day, together with a
plan for holding and collecting all such waste at least once a day at the
assembly, and sufficient trash containers with tight-fitting lids and personnel
to perform the task;
   (E)   If the assembly continues into the hours of darkness, sufficient
illumination to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of at least
five foot-candles but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the
assembly;
   (F)   A free parking area inside the assembly grounds sufficient to provide
parking for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of one
parking place for every four persons;
   (G)   If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping facilities in
compliance with all state and local requirements sufficient to provide camping
accommodations for the maximum of people to be assembled;
   (H)   Security guards or other regularly employed, duly sworn off-duty
police officers, constables or private guards licensed in the state, sufficient
to provide adequate security for the maximum number of people to be assembled
at the rate of at least one security guard for every 750 people;
   (I)   Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing devices, fire lanes
and escapes sufficient to meet all state and local standards for the location
of the assembly, and sufficient emergency personnel to operate efficiently the
required equipment;
   (J)   Provide physicians and nurses licensed to practice in Indiana, at the
rate of at least one physician for every 10,000 people and at least one nurse
for every 5,000 people anticipated to be assembled, with one-half of the
physicians and nurses to be on the site for which the license has been issued
and the other one-half to be readily available;
   (K)   Provide an enclosed covered structure where treatment may be provided
containing a separately enclosed treatment room for each physician;
   (L)   Provide at least one emergency ambulance available at all times;
   (M)   Provide telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to provide
for the maximum number of people to be assembled, at the rate of at least one
separate line and receiver for each 1,000 people;
   (N)   The applicant shall verify that reasonably necessary precautions will
be taken to ensure that the sound of the assembly will not carry unreasonably
beyond the enclosed boundaries of the location of the assembly; and
   (O)   The applicant shall file a bond with the Clerk of the Circuit Court,
with said bond meeting the following conditions:
      (1)   Be either in cash or underwritten by a surety agent licensed to do
business in Indiana;
      (2)   Be issued at the rate of $4 per person for the maximum number of
people permitted to assemble;
      (3)   Indemnify and hold harmless the unit or the unit's agents,
officers, or employees from any liability or causes of action that might arise
by reason of granting the license and from any cost incurred in cleaning up any
waste material produced or left by the assembly;
      (4)   Guarantee the state the payment of any taxes that accrue as a
result of the gathering;
      (5)   Guarantee reimbursement to ticketholders if the event is canceled;
and
      (6)   Guarantee to the county, or any other unit of government as
applicable, repayment for actual expenses of repair or replacement of property
owned by the unitor for which the unit is responsible.
(Ord. 2020-11b, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 93.04 LICENSE; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The license for assemblies in accordance with this chapter shall be
approved and issued by the Sheriff.
   (B)   Any person desiring a license in accordance with this chapter shall:
      (1)   Obtain an application from the Office of the Board of Commissioners
and return the completed application at least 60 days prior to the date that
the applicant intends to schedule such assembly;
      (2)   Submission of such application shall include a non-refundable
processing fee of $200 payable to the Morgan County Commissioners;
      (3)   Such application shall contain and disclose the name, age,
residence, and mailing address of all persons organizing and managing such
assembly. In the event a corporation is making such application, a certified
copy of the articles of incorporation together with the name, age, residence,
and mailing address for each person holding at least 10% of the stock of the
corporation;
      (4)   Such application shall further state the nature and purpose of the
assembly, length for which the assembly is to be permitted, the maximum number
of persons to be allowed at such assembly at any one time, rules and
regulations concerning the conduct of such assembly, the maximum number of
tickets to be sold, the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the unit
if the assembly is to continue overnight, and all plans necessary to assure the
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   Such application shall further contain a legal description of the
real estate together with the mailing address of said real estate, and the
name, residence and mailing address of the person holding legal title to said
real estate and any person holding equitable title to said real estate;
      (6)   Such application shall contain verification of compliance with the
requirements for such license as identified in this chapter; and
      (7)   Such application shall contain a verification of acknowledgment of
possible penalties for non-compliance as identified by this chapter.
   (C)   An application submitted shall be processed as follows:
      (1)   Upon timely receipt of an application for license under this
chapter, the Secretary of the Board of Commissioners shall distribute a copy of
the same to the County Board of Health, County Plan Commission, County Highway
Superintendent, agency responsible for fire protection services in the location
in which the event will be held, County Sheriff, and any other agency necessary
to achieve the purpose of this chapter and I.C. 16-41-22.
      (2)   Each of the entities listed in (C)(1) of this section shall
investigate as they deem necessary and appropriate, in consideration of the
requirements for the issuance of said license in accordance with this chapter
as those requirements pertain to the respective duties of each office in
ensuring the health, safety, and welfare of attendees and the general public.
      (3)   After the investigation conducted in accordance with this chapter,
each entity shall complete its report and return to the Office of the Board of
Commissioners within 15 days of receipt.
      (4)   At such time as the entities listed in (C)(1) of this section have
returned their reports to the Office of the Board of Commissioners, the
Secretary of the Board of Commissioners will review said reports and the
application and forward the same to the Sheriff.
      (5)   If the applicant has demonstrated compliance with this chapter, the
Sheriff shall issue the person a license.
(Ord. 2020-11b, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 93.05 COMPLIANCE; REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any license granted under the provisions of this chapter may be
cancelled or revoked by the Sheriff at any time if it is determined that the
person holding such license cannot comply with or is not complying with the
terms of the license or the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Any provision in this chapter may be enforced by injunction in any
court of competent jurisdiction. This shall be an additional remedy and in no
way shall limit or restrict any other remedies created by this chapter or
existing at law or equity.
   (C)   A person aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a license under this
chapter may file an appeal with the circuit court, superior court, or probate
court of the county within 15 days of the date that the license was denied or
revoked.
(Ord. 2020-11b, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
    The holding of an assembly in violation of a provision or condition
contained in this chapter constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   A person who knowing violates §
93.02 or violates a condition of the license issued in accordance with §
93.03 commits a Level 6 felony.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, a person who recklessly violates or
fails to comply with this chapter commits a Class B misdemeanor; each day that
said violation or non-compliance continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may be fined in a
sum not to exceed $1,000 for each day such violation shall continue.
(Ord. 2020-11b, passed 10-5-2020)
APPENDIX A: MORGAN COUNTY MASS GATHERING APPLICATION FORM
Dear Event Organizer:
If you are planning an assembly of any kind that will reasonably be expected to
be attended by more than 5000 individuals and be more than 18 hours in
duration, you are required to obtain a mass gathering license for each day your
event will take place, in accordance with I.C. 16-41-22 and County Code of
Ordinances, Chapter 93.
   Directions
The permit application process begins with you submitting a completed mass
gathering permit application and required attachments, including a detailed
map/diagram of your event.
Please note that acceptance of a completed application does not guarantee
approval of an event. Upon submittal of your application, copies are forwarded
and reviewed by various departments within Morgan County. As part of the
approval process you may be required to provide additional information and/or
documents (i.e., certificate of insurance, secondary permits, and the like).
The mass gathering permit will not be issued until the required conditions
(where applicable) are satisfied. Delays in providing information and/or
documentation will delay the approval process.
If the event involves the use of a facility or property that does not belong to
Morgan County, it is the applicant’s responsibility to contact the appropriate
entity regarding the availability and use of the property.
1.   Submit your completed application (with five complete copies) at least 60
days before your proposed event with a check made payable to Morgan County
Commissioners for $200 for a mass gathering license. This processing fee is
non-refundable.
2.   You will be sent an acknowledgement that your application has been
received. Your application will then be reviewed by various county agencies.
During this review period, you may be contacted by county representatives for
clarification of your event details.
3.   After a full review of your application, the Sheriff shall cause to be
delivered, either a denial letter or a conditions of approval letter. The
conditions of approval letter will outline requirements for your event, such as
necessary permits, approvals, and/or applicable fees.
4.   Once all the conditions of approval have been met, a “mass gathering
permit” will then be issued by the Morgan County Sheriff. You will be required
to have this permit in possession during your event.
We appreciate your time and interest in planning a successful and safe event in
Morgan County. If you need blither assistance, please call
                                                               .
SECTION 1:   GENERAL INFORMATION
Today’s Date:                                                 Event Title:
                                                            
Event Location:
                                                                                                                            
Name of Property Owner:
                                                                                                            
Address of Property Owner:
                                                                                        
Phone Number of Property Owner:
                                                                                               
Name of Mass Gathering Operator:
                                                                                               
Address of Mass Gathering Operator:
                                                                                            
Phone Number of Mass Gathering Operator:
                                                                                  
Day-of-Event Contact:                                           Day-of-Event
Phone:                                        
Please provide a description of your event, including activities, timeline, and
sequence of events. Include in your response what steps will be taken to limit
the number of people in attendance to the maximum permitted in accordance with
the license issued, if such license if issued; and all other information you
believe relevant.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
                                                                                                                                              
SECTION 2:   LIABILITY
Insurance/Indemnification Requirements
Insurance required. General liability, automobile liability, workers comp/
employer’s liability, comprehensive form, including liquor liability (where
applicable) in the amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence, naming Morgan County as
additional insured. Sponsor shall furnish original certificates of insurance
and separate attached additional insured endorsements (affecting coverage
required by the change) signed by a person authorized to bind coverage on its
behalf.
Bond Requirements
Bond required. The applicant shall file a bond with the Clerk of the Morgan
Circuit Court, with said bond meeting the following conditions:
   a.   Be either in cash or underwritten by a surety agent licensed to do
business in Indiana;
   b.   Be issued at the rate of $4 per person for the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
   c.   Indemnify and hold harmless the unit or the unit’s agents, officers, or
employees from any liability or causes of action that might arise by reason of
granting the license and from any cost incurred in cleaning up any waste
material produced or left by the assembly;
   d.   Guarantee the state the payment of any taxes that accrue as a result of
the gathering;
   e.   Guarantee reimbursement to ticketholders if the event is canceled; and
   f.   Guarantee to the county, or any other unit of government as applicable,
repayment for actual expenses of repair or replacement of property owned by the
unit or for which the unit is responsible.
Hold Harmless and Indemnification Agreement
The licensee shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Morgan County, its
officials, employees, agents, and volunteers from any and all claims, injuries,
damages, losses or suits, including attorney fees, arising out of or in
connection with the event that is the subject of this application and license.
The undersigned affirms that he or she has the authority to agree to this hold
harmless and indemnification clause, either in his or her capacity as an
individual or on behalf of the entity submitting this application.
Signature:
                                                                                        
Date:                                   
Please Print Name:
                                                                           
Title:                                   
SECTION 3:   EVENT INFORMATION
Setup/Preparation Date:                      Time:                 Event Ends
Date:                     Time:              
Event Start Date:                     Time:                   Dismantle Date:
                      Time:                      
Anticipated Attendance: Total:                Per day:                 
Will this event be open to the public? Yes               or No                
Location of the event (please be specific) If privately owned property, attach
proof of approval from property owner (and tenant).
                                                                                                                                                         
Zoning Classification:                      
County Facilities
Do you plan to hold your event at a county building or park? Yes               
or No                 
If you answered yes, what facility:
                                                                                          
Have you reserved the facility yet? Yes                 or No
                    
Is this event a block party? Yes               or No                    
Will this event require any town/county sheets to be closed? Yes               
or No                     
If yes, which streets (please specify cross-streets)? Include a route site map.
Will you have off-site parking? Yes                      or No
                    
If yes, please attach a statement from the property owner of the off-site
parking acknowledging and approving the use of their property for parking.
Does this event involve a parade? Yes                      or No
                    
Does your event include food concessions and/or preparation areas? Yes
                     or No                     
If yes, please describe how food will be served and prepared. Include a copy of
permit horn Morgan County Health Department.
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                           
 
Specify cooking method:                 Gas                 
Electric                  Charcoal                  Other (specify)
Enclosed Restroom Facilities
You are required to provide enclosed restroom facilities at this event and meet
all federal, state, and local requirements related thereto. There must be at
least one restroom for every 150 women and at least one restroom for every 200
men anticipated to attend the event.
Do you plan to provide portable restroom facilities at your event? Yes
                  or No                     
If yes, total number of portable toilets:                   Number of ADA-
compliant portable toilets:                
Lighting
Will this event use any lighting? Yes                   or No                  
If this event is an evening event, please state how the event and surrounding
areas will be illuminated to ensure the safety of the participants and
spectators.
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                           
Electrical Access
A licensed electrician must be used for all electrical work associated with the
event.
Electricians Name:
                                                                                                                            
License Number:
                                                                                                                              
Phone:                                                            Email:
                                                                       
Mailing Address:
                                                                                                                              
Day-of-Event Contact:                                       Day-of-Event Phone:
                                                  
Medical/First Aid Services
Are you planning to provide on-site first aid: Yes                 or No
                 
If yes, please list who will be providing first aid services (examples: EMT,
paramedic, registered nurse) and proof of the same.
Provide contact information:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Please describe your emergency medical plan, including your communications
procedures:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Security
Are you planning to provide on-site security? Yes                   or No
                 
If yes, please list who will be providing said security services and proof of
the same.
Provide contact information:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Please describe your security plan, including crowd control and contact
information:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Event Promotion
Will this event be promoted, advertised, or marketed in any manner? Yes
                or No                  
If yes, please explain:
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                         
Will any signs, banners, decorations, or special lighting be used? Yes
                or No                  
If yes, please explain:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Sound/Noise
Will you be using any amplified sound (i.e. public address system P.A.)? Yes
            or No              
If yes, please describe, and include what measures will be taken to abide by
the hour restriction on sound as well as what limitation is planned for
lighting and whether the lighting will affect any adjacent property owners or
others:
NOTE: Limit amplified sound use from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. Event organizers must be
certain that all event activities comply with the local laws applicable to
noise abatement,
Is there any musical entertainment related to your event? Yes                  
or No                  
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Sound amplification:
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Date:                   from                   AM/PM to                   AM/PM
NOTE: If multiple groups, bands, and the like will provide musical
entertainment, please provide contact name, telephone number and address for
each and attach to this application.
Group Name:
                                                                                                                                  
Contact Person’s Name:
                                                                                                                   
Phone Number:                                                Cell Phone Number:
                                                  
Contact Person’s Address:
                                                                                                                
Number of stages:                   Height:                   Depth:
                  Width:                   Number of
Bands:                  
Describe sound equipment that will be used:
 
Will sound checks be conducted prior to the event? Yes                   or No
                 
If yes, please list the date and times: Date:                   from
                  AM/PM to                   AM/PM
Will aerial fireworks, theatrical pyrotechnics or other regulated special
effects be used?
Yes                   or No                  
If yes, please describe:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                       
Name of pyrotechnic company:
                                                                                                       
Phone Number:                                                   Company
Contact:                                                 
Title:                                                       Operator:
                                                                       
License No.:
                                                                                                                                 
Notification
You may be required to notify surrounding residents, businesses, organizations,
and the like that may be impacted by your event.
As a condition of the event, you may be required to provide a copy of the
notice and proposed list of recipients.
Advance Cancellation Notice Required
If this event is cancelled, notify the Board of Commissioners and/or the
Sheriff at least 48 hours in advance.
Miscellaneous
Will anything be sold? Yes                   or No                  
If yes, please describe
                                                                                                                                                        
Will donations be taken at event? Yes                   or No                  
If yes, please describe:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Will this event involve a car wash? Yes                   or No
                 
If yes, please describe:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Will you be using a tent, stage, canopy, or other temporary structure? Yes
                  or No                  
If yes, please describe - include size of structure (square feet) and what you
plan to do inside the structure:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
In order to comply with the American with Disabilities Act, describe how your
event will be accessible to people with disabilities:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
Please describe your plan for cleanup and removal of recyclable goods and
garbage during and after your event:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                         
SECTION 4:   SITE MAP
Please provide a site plan/route map for your event. Attach additional sheets,
as necessary. The map should include:
                 An outline of the event site including the names of streets or
areas that are part of the venue and the surrounding area. If the event
involves a moving route of any kind (such as a parade), indicate the direction
of travel, including the starting location and ending destination.
                 Any street or lane closures and parking tow zones.
                The locations of fencing, barriers, or barricades. Include any
removable fencing for emergency access.
                 The location of first-aid facilities
                 The location of all stages, platforms, booths, cooking areas,
trash containers, tents/canopies, and the like.
                 Food booths and cooking area configuration including all
vendors cooking with flammable gases or barbeque grills.
                 Generator locations and/or source of electricity.
                 Placement of vehicles or trailers used for the event.
                 Anticipated parking locations. ADA parking locations.
                 Placement of promotional signs or banners. (Please see
Director of Planning for sign permits).
                 Placement of portable toilets/restrooms facilities.
                 Exit locations for outdoor events that have fences.
                 Event headquarters/command post.
                 Lost child station.
                 Booths, tents, canopies, exhibits, displays, enclosures.
                 Stages, platforms, scaffolding, bleachers, grandstands, or
related structures.
                 Rides and amusements (games).
                 Trash containers/dumpsters/recyclable containers.
                 Locations of all other event activities.
                 Potable water
                 Lighting location(s)
                 Telephone service
                 Camp sites
                 Fire protection
                 Parking area with traffic flow pattern
                 Are admissions, vendor, or other fees required? Yes
                  or No                  
If yes, please provide admission fees:
Adult $                  Senior $                  Child $                 
Vendor fees: For profit $                  Non-profit $                 
Number of vendors:                  
How many vendors for profit?                  
How many vendors for non-profit?                  
Other fees: Yes                   or No                  
Describe:
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                         
All vendors must possess one of the following: 1) transient merchant license,
2) peddler license or 3) solicitor license with Morgan County. This business
license must be displayed at all times during the event. Please list all
Vendors and their business license numbers on the attached sheet.
Vendor List (attachment) make additional copies of this page if necessary.
For each merchandise vendor, please complete the information on the following
page:
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
 
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
Vendor Name:                                                  
Address:                                                          
Phone/cell #                                                     
Business license #                                             
Type of Merchandise:                                       
 
 
AFFIRMATION STATEMENT
I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, that I have read,
understand and agree to abide by the rules and regulations governing the mass
gathering events under Morgan County Code, and that I understand that this
application is made subject to rules and regulations established by Morgan
County Board of Commissioners. I agree to comply with all permit conditions and
with all other requirements of the county, state and federal governments and
any other applicable entity that may pertain to the use of the event premises
and the conduct of the event. I agree to abide by these rules and further
certify that I, on behalf of the organization, am also authorized to commit
that organization and therefore, agree to be financially responsible for any
costs and fees that any be incurred by or on behalf of the event to Morgan
County.
Date:                                                  
Applicant Printed Name:                                                  
Applicant Signature:                                                        
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Excessive Noise
   
94.01   Unlawful actions
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Fireworks display
   
94.04   Determinating if noise is violation
   
94.05   Vehicles
   
94.06   Enforcement
Weeds, Grass and Other Vegetation; Control
   
94.20   Purpose and intent
   
94.21   Definitions
   
94.22   Weeds, rank vegetation, garbage, and junk prohibited
 
   
94.99   Penalty
EXCESSIVE NOISE
§ 94.01 UNLAWFUL ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to generate, make, continue
or cause to be generated or made or to create any unreasonably loud, disturbing
or unnecessary noise or sound within the unincorporated areas of the county, of
such character or intensity or duration so as to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property or which disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, safety, peace or welfare of any person or livestock.
(Ord. 3-1-1.1, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2009-04, passed 2-17-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTURBING. Noise that is unreasonable in its degree, as perceived by a
person of ordinary sensibilities.
   UNNECESSARY. Noise or sound which could be mitigated or otherwise controlled
by the person(s) who created, generated or caused to be created or generated
the noise or sound, without unduly restricting that person’s conduct.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD. Noise that is substantially incompatible with the time
and location such that it interferes with comfortable enjoyment of life or
property or with the peace and good order.
(Ord. 3-1-1.1, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 94.03 FIREWORKS DISPLAY.
   (A)   Any person who conducts or permits a “public display” of fireworks
pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-2 or I.C. 22-11-14-3.5 shall, in addition to the
permit requirements of the Fire Marshal, notify each residence located within a
one-mile distance of the display site of his or her intent to have a public
display of fireworks.
   (B)   The notice shall be in writing and delivered to the residences not
later than 48 hours prior to the display. The notice shall be mailed by United
States mail, first class and the person shall retain a list of the names and
addresses of the persons provided notice. It shall be sufficient to determine
the names and addresses of the owners of residences requiring notice by
utilizing the county’s property tax records.
   (C)   A copy of the notice shall be mailed to the County Sheriff’s
Department.
(Ord. 2009-07, passed 4-20-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DETERMINING IF NOISE IS VIOLATION.
   In determining whether a noise or sound is in violation of this subchapter,
the following factors may be considered:
   (A)   Time of day;
   (B)   Proximity to residential structures;
   (C)   Whether the noise or sound is recurrent, intermittent or constant;
   (D)   The volume and intensity;
   (E)   Whether the noise or sound has been enhanced in volume, range or
intensity by any type of electronic or mechanical means;
   (F)   The character and zoning district of the area;
   (G)   Whether the noise is related to the normal operation of a lawful
business or other labor activity; and
   (H)   Whether the noise is subject to being controlled or mitigated by the
person or persons who generated the noise without unreasonable burden.
(Ord. 3-1-1.1, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 94.05 VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate or use any
motor vehicle, auto-mobile, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, dirt bike, go-
cart, recreational vehicle or any other vehicle, as follows:
      (1)   In a condition of disrepair or so loaded or operated as to produce
or generate unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise;
      (2)   Without a functioning muffler/exhaust system or other noise control
equipment; or
      (3)   With the muffler/exhaust system or noise control equipment altered,
modified, removed or maintained in such a condition of disrepair as to generate
or produce unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to operate or use any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, all-
terrain vehicle, dirt bike, go-cart, recreational vehicle or any other vehicle
which produces or generates unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m., where five or more residences
are located within 750 feet of the tract, parcel or lot upon which the vehicle
is operated or used.
(Ord. 3-1-1.1, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Sheriff, and his or her deputies, shall have full authority
to enforce this subchapter and issue citations for violations.
   (B)   The County Prosecutor or County Attorney may prosecute and enforce
this subchapter, and shall have the authority to pursue any equitable remedy
based upon a violation, including a preliminary or permanent injunction.
(Ord. 3-1-1.1, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
WEEDS, GRASS AND OTHER VEGETATION; CONTROL
§ 94.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is hereby declared that the purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and
control the growth of weeds and other rank vegetation and to require the
cutting and removal of the same, as well as to make it unlawful for any
property owner or occupant to allow a public nuisance, as defined herein and by
I.C. 32-30-6-6, to exist on any real property located within the county. These
provisions shall apply to all real property used for residential purposes as
well as all real property used for commercial purposes, that are not otherwise
exempt herein. The intention of these provisions is to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the county as well as to
protect the natural beauty and environment of the county, and the cumulative
result of which shall be maintaining and enhancing the county as a safe, clean,
and desirable place to live and work.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 94.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES. Shall have the same meaning as I.C. 9-13-2-1, which
includes but is not limited to any motor vehicle that is at least three model
years old, is mechanically inoperable, and is left on private property
continuously in a location visible from public property for more than 20 days.
Farm equipment, farm implements, or machinery parts that are, or may be, used
in agricultural operations, or may be considered antique farming implements are
not ABANDONED VEHICLES for the purposes of this
Chapter 94.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The Morgan County Department of Planning and
Zoning shall be responsible for the administration of this subchapter until and
unless the Board of Commissioners determine it is necessary to designate
another agency or employee of the county to do so; this person(s) shall also be
referred to as the Code Enforcement Official throughout this chapter.
   GARBAGE. Includes putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, and any refuse,
rubbish, and yard waste as defined herein.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Board of Commissioners or their designee who is
responsible for hearing appeals for a notice of violation and/or appeals on
abatement costs.
   JUNK. Shall include, without limitation, abandoned vehicles, parts of
vehicles, scrap iron and/or other metals, wood, paper, rags, rubber tires,
bottles, and/or any dismantled household appliances or parts thereof, whether
inoperable or operable.
   NUISANCE. Whatever is:
      (1)   Injurious to health;
      (2)   Indecent;
      (3)   Offensive to the senses; or
      (4)   An obstruction to the free use of property; so as essentially to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance,
and the subject of an action (I.C. 32-30-6-6).
   OWNER. A person holding legal or equitable title to real property used for
residential or commercial purposes within the unincorporated limits of Morgan
County, Indiana.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation,
trust or any commercial association or venture, however defined.
   PUTRESCIBLE. Substances which are subject to organic decomposition.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, including animal
wastes, and ashes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, wood, glass,
bedding, crockery, construction debris, and similar materials.
   WEEDS and RANK VEGETATION. Any excessive growth of vegetation, other than
trees, bushes, shrubs, ornamental plants, that is 12 inches or more in height
and/or listed as a weed in the U.S. Department of Agriculture publication
entitled "Common Weeds of the United States", or in any similar government
publication. This term does not include agricultural crops, including hay and
pasture, which are maintained for that purpose in areas crops are permitted to
be grown and does not include portions of a golf course or golf course property
which are intended to remain as wooded areas or hazard areas associated with
the golf course.
   YARD WASTE. Severed grass, weeds, leaves, brush, tree trimmings, hedge
clipping and other yard and garden materials.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 94.22 WEEDS, RANK VEGETATION, GARBAGE, AND JUNK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Weeds, rank vegetation, garbage and junk declared public nuisances.
Weeds, rank vegetation, garbage and junk as herein defined that constitute
violations of this chapter are declared to be public nuisances due to the
danger to the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county.
   (B)   Violation. It is a violation of this chapter for an owner to allow
weeds or rank vegetation to grow to a height in excess of 12 inches, or for an
owner to allow garbage and/or junk to accumulate on real property located
within the county used for residential or commercial purposes, thereby creating
a public nuisance affecting a neighborhood or community as may be determined by
the Code Enforcement Official.
   (C)   Prevention of public nuisances. All owners shall cut and remove weeds
and rank vegetation and shall keep their real property clear of garbage and
junk.
   (D)   Violation report and violation notice. All alleged violations of this
chapter shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Violation reports. Violations of this chapter shall be reported on
forms to be provided by and submitted to the Code Enforcement Official
("violation report"). A violation report may be submitted by any resident of
Morgan County.
      (2)   Inspections. Following the submission of a violation report by
neighbors or community members that allege a violation of this chapter, the
Code Enforcement Official shall inspect the real property that is the subject
of the violation report and file an inspection report which shall include the
following determinations:
         (a)   Whether the owner has violated this chapter;
         (b)   If any of the violation reports were filed for purposes other
than to report a violation under this chapter; and
         (c)   If the violation reports were submitted by neighbors or
community members.
      (3)   Violation notices. Upon determination that the owner has committed
a violation of this chapter, the Code Enforcement Official, or its designee,
shall issue a written notice ("violation notice") to the owner and any
occupants of the property. The violation notice shall identify the violation(s)
and order the owner to mitigate the public nuisance within ten business days
from the date on which the owner has been served the violation notice
(“abatement period”). Personal service, service by U.S. certified mail, or any
other manner of service recognized in the Indiana Rules of Trial Procedure
shall constitute proper service upon the owner and any occupants of the
property for the purposes of this chapter. Additionally, a copy of the
violation notice shall be conspicuously posted on the property by the Code
Enforcement Official, or its designee.
      (4)   Abandoned vehicles. In the event the violation report, as confirmed
by the inspection of the Code Enforcement Official, identifies one or more
abandoned vehicles on the subject property, the county shall comply with all
due process requirements for notice and abatements of those abandoned vehicles
as proscribed by Indiana Code, including I.C. 9-22-1 et seq.
   (E)   Violation notice appeal. Any violation notice issued pursuant to this
chapter may be appealed to the Hearing Authority if written notice of appeal is
served on the Hearing Authority by the owner prior to the expiration of the
abatement period. The timely appeal of a violation notice shall toll the
abatement period pending the issuance of a decision thereon by the Hearing
Authority.
   (F)   Failure to comply after abatement period. If the owner fails to timely
abate each violation set forth in a violation notice within the abatement
period, the Code Enforcement Officer or other person(s) designated by the Code
Enforcement Officer may enter onto that property and take appropriate action to
bring the property into compliance with this subchapter and abate each public
nuisance identified in the violation notice, as proscribed by I.C. 36-1-6 et
seq. Prior to taking such an action, all persons holding a substantial interest
in the property must be given a reasonable opportunity of at least ten days but
not more than 60 days to bring the property into compliance.
   (G)   Abatement costs. Upon completion of the abatement, the Code
Enforcement Official, or his or her designee, shall prepare a certified
statement as to the actual administrative and other costs incurred by the
county in taking such action, in addition to any penalties provided herein
("abatement costs"), and shall serve a copy of the invoice on the owner. The
owner shall, within 30 days from the date on which the owner is served with
such invoice ("payment period"), pay in full the amount stated thereon payable
to the Morgan County Treasurer.
   (H)   Appeal of costs. Any invoice for abatement costs issued pursuant to
this chapter may be appealed to the Hearing Authority if written notice of
appeal is served by the owner on the Hearing Authority within ten calendar days
from the date on which the invoice is served on the owner. The timely appeal of
an invoice shall toll the payment period pending the issuance of a decision
thereon by the hearing authority.
   (I)   Failure to pay. If the owner fails to timely pay an invoice for
abatement costs issued pursuant to this chapter, the Code Enforcement Official,
or his or her designee, shall certify to the Morgan County Auditor the amount
of the invoice for abatement costs, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification of the same. The Morgan County Auditor shall
place the total amount so certified on the tax duplicate for the property at
issue, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected
as delinquent taxes are and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the
county.
   (J)   Statutory lien. In addition to the collection procedures described
above, the expenses incurred by the county in order to abate a public nuisance
constitute a lien that attaches to the property when notice of the lien is
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. The lien is superior to all
other liens except liens for taxes, in an amount that does not exceed:
      (1)   Ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for real property that contains one
or more occupied or unoccupied single or double family dwellings or the
appurtenances or additions to those dwellings or is unimproved; or
      (2)   Twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) for all other property.
   (K)   Time of appeals. The Hearing Authority shall hear any timely requested
appeal of violation notice or invoice for abatement costs within 30 calendar
days following receipt of the same, and shall thereafter promptly issue a
decision granting or denying, in whole or in part, the appeal. The date on
which the Hearing Authority's decision is served on the owner shall thereafter
become the first calendar day of the abatement period or payment period, as
applicable.
   (L)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Venue. If enforcement proceedings or correction proceedings cannot
be accomplished by the procedures herein and otherwise available in accordance
with statute, the Morgan County Circuit or Superior Courts shall be the courts
of proper venue and jurisdiction for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Cumulative remedy. This chapter supplements and does not limit any
other remedy or action available in law or equity regarding the subject matter
hereof.
      (3)   Applicability. This chapter shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Agricultural and industrial operations as described in I.C. 32-
30-6-9;
         (b)   Forestry operations as described in I.C. 32-30-6-11;
         (c)   Real property upon which agricultural crops are cultivated,
including hay and pasture, as described in I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(a); and
         (d)   Morgan County municipal corporations as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-
10, and Morgan County governmental units, departments, and school corporations.
      (4)   Abatement vendors. The Commissioners may invite and accept no less
than two reasonable bids for abatement vendors who shall be private businesses
and not any department of the county. Said vendors shall provide abatement
services as independent contractors for violations of this chapter including
the abatement of weeds and rank vegetation, garbage and junk, and the bids may
be renewed and updated at various times when deemed appropriate by the
Commissioners.
      (5)   Funds collected. Any and all abatement costs, penalties, and fines
collected as a result of violations of and pursuant to this chapter shall be
deposited into the General Fund of the county. The Commissioners and County
Council may, in their discretion and as circumstances may warrant, disburse
these funds to the General Fund of the Planning and Zoning Department.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons who violate the terms of §§
94.01 through
94.06 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each violation. Each
day a person or persons is in violation of §§
94.01 through
94.06 shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the lien provisions outlined in §§
94.20 through
94.22 for the payment of all abatement costs, which shall include any and all
administrative costs, filing fees, reasonable attorney fees, or any other
actual costs incurred by the Code Enforcement Officer, County Auditor, Board of
Commissioners, abatement vendors, or any party related to the enforcement of §§
94.20 through
94.22 on behalf of the county in issuing the violation notice and taking
whatever actions necessary to abate said violation(s), an owner may also be
assessed a fine, in the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer or Hearing
Authority, as follows:
      (1)   First violation: $100;
      (2)   Second violation: $500; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations: $1,000.
   (D)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 3-1-1.1, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-18-2021)
CHAPTER 95: ROAD NUMBERING AND NAMING
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Property address numbering system
   
95.04   Property addressing
   
95.05   Responsibility for property addressing and road numbering
   
95.06   Requirements for obtaining street addresses
   
95.07   Incorporated cities and towns
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set standards for house and
other structure numbering and road naming in the county, and to establish the
authority and methods to be used when assigning addresses to properties in the
county.
   (B)   These standards shall be used to establish residence locations which
will be used in the implementation of an Enhanced 911 Emergency Response System
in the county. It is intended to provide continuity, avoid duplication and
prevent general confusion regarding the location of developed parcels of land
in the county.
(Ord. 6-2-2, passed 2-17-1992)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS PLANNING AUTHORITY. The Morgan County Commissioners shall serve as
the coordinating body in the county with the responsibility for assigning
street addresses within its jurisdiction. The agency shall coordinate its
addressing efforts with the County Plan Commission, County Sheriff, local
postmasters and large mailers in the county such as utilities, government and
the like.
   BASE LINES. Existing recognizable lines which divide the county into
quadrants or sectors. The Township 11 North-Township 12 North line and
Martinsville Main Street, which is two miles east of the second principal
meridian are BASE LINES in the county.
   BLOCK INTERVAL. The hundred number interval is the distance between grid
lines, or the point where the next highest block number designation is used.
   CUSTOMER (ADDRESSEE). A family, individual, residence, business or industry
which receives mail at a delivery point.
   FRONTAGE INTERVAL. The distance in foot frontage along a street, highway or
county road which is used to assign consecutive property numbers, beginning
from the nearest grid or base line. The address system used by the county
assumes a FRONTAGE INTERVAL of 10.56 feet.
   GRID LINES. Imaginary lines or actual county roads which are located a
specific distance from and perpendicular or parallel to base lines. These lines
indicate the point where block numbers change from 100 to the next higher
hundred. GRID LINES are used to standardize the numbering of parallel blocks at
the same distance from the base lines.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract, development or area of land which is either
now being or will be used eventually for construction of a structure.
   PRIMARY ADDRESS NUMBER (CITY-TYPE ADDRESS). The numeric or alphanumeric
component of a city-type address which precedes the street name. (Example: 5400
N. Blue Bluff Rd.)
   STRUCTURE. A residential home, apartment building, business or commercial
building, industrial or manufacturing building, or a publicly-owned building
which fronts onto a public street or road.
(Ord. 6-2-2, passed 2-17-1992)
§ 95.03 PROPERTY ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Advantages of a property address numbering system. A street numbering
system and corresponding property addresses provide individual structures with
an exact geographic location in the county. City-type street/road addresses are
necessary in order to provide a structure with a specific and more accurate
identification for efficient mail delivery; to provide an easily identifiable
geographic reference point for quick dispatch of police, fire and emergency
rescue equipment; to provide utility companies with a permanent address record
for billing and service calls tied to a specific structure; and to provide ease
of location identification for friends, service vehicles or other individuals
trying to locate a specific structure or a county road. A numbering system
should make it easy for anyone to find the location of a county road or
residential property in a short period of time and allow for a systematic
expansion of address numbers as community growth occurs.
   (B)   The grid coordinate system. The county has structured the naming of
its road system and the issuance of property addresses based on the Lyman/
Purdue Street Numbering System. The system is better known as the Grid
Coordinate System. The system utilizes two base lines which run at approximate
right angles to each other to divide the county into quadrants. Most of the
county roads are numbered based on their distance from the north-south and
east-west base lines.
   (C)   County road names and numbers. Existing county road/street names will
be retained, where feasible. Some names will have to be changed to correct
duplications, multiple namings of the same road and other factors causing
confusion. Road names will be used to delineate an assumed distance in feet
from a base line or each other (grid line). All address measurements will be
taken from the middle of an intersection.
   (D)   Property numbering intervals. Street addresses are assigned in
increasing order from each base and grid line. In the county, 1,000 potential
property addresses exist for each 5,280 feet (one mile) of distance from the
base lines. There are approximately 50 address numbers that will be available
for each side of the street/road within each tenth of a mile. All of those
available numbers will probably not be needed, depending on the density of
development along the street/road. Therefore, addresses occur at each 10.56-
foot interval and block numbers change every 528 linear feet along a street/
road. A specific street/road address is determined by measuring the number of
10.56-foot intervals between the nearest grid line or county street/road
signpost to the front entrance of a structure. Crooked roads and roads running
at angles (not true north-south or east-west) will be addressed with the
predominant north-south-east-west direction. Distances between address numbers
will vary in these cases.
(Ord. 6-2-2, passed 2-17-1992)
§ 95.04 PROPERTY ADDRESSING.
   (A)   Assignment of official permanent property addresses. All residences
and commercial, industrial and public structures located in the county shall be
assigned a permanent city-type street address. Structures located on the north
side of an east-west street/road and those located on the west side of a north-
south street/road shall have an even-numbered property address. Structures
located on the south side of an east-west street/road and those located on the
east side of a north-south street/road shall have an odd number.
   (B)   Determining a property address. An official street address shall
contain no more than five digits with the first digit, or the first two digits
if the structure is located ten or more miles from the baseline, indicating the
milepost or distance from the baselines. The second or third digit shall
indicate the block number which will change each 528 linear feet. The last two
digits indicate the number of 10.56-foot intervals from the structure to the
nearest block or grid line.
   (C)   Placement and size of address numbers. Once a property address has
been assigned to a specific structure, it shall be the responsibility of the
property owner or resident to provide the address number on the structure or on
a mailbox or mailbox post in rural areas, or on a sign facing the street/road.
Numbers are to be placed on structures in a location which faces the street/
road upon which it is addressed. The numbers, and the complete address if
desired, should be placed on the structure near a main entry door or on a
cornice, porch and the like, located above the main entry door. The letters
should be located at least five feet above the threshold on the right side of
any entrance door. On rural mailboxes, the numbers and lettering shall be
located on both sides of the mailbox or the mailbox post. In all situations
property number lettering shall exceed one inch in vertical height and the
color of the letters shall contrast with the background of the mailbox or
mailbox post in order to be readable.
(Ord. 6-2-2, passed 2-17-1992)
§ 95.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY ADDRESSING AND ROAD NUMBERING.
   In the unincorporated areas of the county, the responsibility for the
issuance of street addresses shall be assigned to the staff of the County Plan
Commission. I.C. 36-7-4-405 grants a Plan Commission the power to prescribe a
numbering system, assign street numbers and approve the naming of all streets
in platted subdivision. The Plan Commission shall issue and keep a permanent
record of all issued property addresses within its jurisdiction and share said
addresses with local postal authorities and E-911 personnel. Determination of
county road or highway names or changes in such names shall be the sole
responsibility of the County Commissioners and the County Highway Department.
The Plan Commission shall have a final approval in the naming of streets in
platted subdivisions, mobile home parks, commercial or industrial business
parks and the like, under its jurisdiction. Local incorporated communities
shall have final approval in the naming of roads and subdivision streets
located within their corporate boundaries.
(Ord. 6-2-2, passed 2-17-1992)
§ 95.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR OBTAINING STREET ADDRESSES.
   A person or business who submits an application to build a new structure in
the county shall submit a plat or site plan as is normally required to obtain a
building permit. Prior to issuance of a building permit, the Plan Commission
staff shall issue an official permanent street/road address for the structure.
It is the official address that will be forwarded to postal officials, the
County Auditor and local utilities. No other address shall be used for
identification of the structure. In no case shall an individual or business be
permitted to assign an address to his or her or its property or a structure on
that property.
(Ord. 6-2-2, passed 2-17-1992)
§ 95.07 INCORPORATED CITIES AND TOWNS.
   The County Plan Commission and the County Commissioners do not have
jurisdiction over the implementation of numbering systems within the
incorporated cities and towns in the county. Numbering in these communities
shall be the responsibility of the local Plan Commission, Town Board or City
Council; however, the County Commissioners may require that city-type addresses
be implemented in these communities for purposes of defining structures for E-
911 identification. All structures in the county shall be required to have
city-type property addresses, including those in incorporated communities. The
rural route and box system now in place in some incorporated communities shall
be eliminated and city-type addresses shall be assigned to all structures in
the communities by January 1, 1993. Communities shall follow the existing
address system now in place in the community, or develop a system which
utilizes north-south and east-west base lines as described in §
95.03.
(Ord. 6-2-2, passed 2-17-1992)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Placement of Mailboxes Along County Roads
   
96.01   General provisions
Driveway Permit Regulations
   
96.15   Applicability
   
96.16   Permit
   
96.17   Minimum standards
   
96.18   Permit fees
 
   
96.99   Penalty
PLACEMENT OF MAILBOXES ALONG COUNTY ROADS
§ 96.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No mailboxes shall be installed, relocated, repaired or maintained
along any street, road or right-of-way under the jurisdiction of the County
Commissioners, except in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   No mailbox shall be installed, relocated, repaired or maintained in a
manner such that the front of the mailbox be closer than two feet from a
vertical line extended up from the edge of the pavement or, in the case of a
gravel road, within two feet of the traveled portion thereof, and that the
front face of the mailbox support structure be no closer than four feet from a
vertical line extended up from the edge of the pavement or traveled portion of
a gravel road.
   (C)   Mailbox support structures installed along county rights-of-way shall
be constructed of four inches by four inches or smaller wooden posts, two
inches diameter or smaller standard weight steel pipes, steel U-channel posts
or metal fence posts of weights lighter than four pounds per foot of length, or
other structures as may be specifically approved by the County Highway
Department. Mailbox support structures made of masonry, stone, reinforced or
unreinforced concrete, metal pipes larger than two inches diameter, concrete
filled pipes, telephone pole selections or other specific types of structures
deemed hazardous to motorists by the County Highway Department are prohibited.
   (D)   Any person or corporation who violates the terms of this section shall
be subject to having the violating mailbox structure removed by the County
Highway Department. The person or corporation in violation shall be held
responsible for the costs of removal of said violation and for the subsequent
cost of installing a non-violating mailbox structure.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be permissible to use a six-inch by six-inch wooden
support post for a mailbox, so long as the mailbox is located within a platted
subdivision along a road or street that has a designated speed limit of 30 mph
or less.
      (2)   The maximum replacement value to be paid by the county for a
mailbox located within two feet of a roadway and damaged or destroyed by the
County Highway Department shall be the sum of $30. Otherwise, the maximum
replacement value for a mailbox shall be $70. Notwithstanding the above, a
mailbox which does not conform to the requirements of this section, or except
mailboxes which otherwise conform to this section and are located within two
feet of the roadway, shall not be subject to a claim for damages.
      (3)   In no event shall a reconstructed or replacement mailbox be
permitted to be installed in violation of this section.
   (F)   (1)   In order to be eligible for a claim for damages under this
provision, the mailbox must conform to the requirements of this section.
         (a)   Mailboxes which otherwise conform to the requirements of this
section, but that are located within two feet of the roadway, shall be eligible
for a claim for damages.
         (b)   The maximum replacement value to be paid by the county for a
mailbox located within two feet of a roadway and damaged or destroyed by the
County Highway Department shall be the sum of $30. Otherwise, the maximum
replacement value for a mailbox damaged or destroyed by the County Highway
Department shall be $70.
      (2)   In no event shall a reconstructed or replacement mailbox be
permitted to be installed in violation of this section.
   (G)   No claim for damage to a mailbox by the county shall be approved for
any mailbox damaged during snow removal, including mailboxes damaged by snow,
ice or debris sprayed or discharged from a snow plow, unless the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The mailbox conforms to all requirements of this section; and
      (2)   The mailbox is struck by a vehicle or apparatus which leaves the
travel portion of the roadway.
(Ord. 6-3-5, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 6-3-5.1, passed 2-22-2005; Ord. 6-3-5.2,
passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 6-3-5.3, passed 3-1-2012) Penalty, see §
96.99
DRIVEWAY PERMIT REGULATIONS
§ 96.15 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to the construction or improvement of any
entrance, driveway or approach connecting to any street, road, highway or
right-of-way under the jurisdiction of Morgan County and the Morgan County
Highway Department.
(Ord. 7-3-11, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 96.16 PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, company, corporation, association or agency
intending to construct or improve an entrance, driveway or approach subject to
this subchapter shall make written application to the Morgan County Highway
Department (the "Department") and secure a permit from the Department prior to
commencing construction or improvement of the entrance, driveway or approach. A
permit must be issued under this subchapter prior to construction or
improvement of an entrance, driveway or approach located within the right-of-
way of Morgan County.
   (B)   The Department shall develop and prepare forms and permits in
compliance with this subchapter. The permit shall identify the parcel of real
estate seeking access to the county road, identify the name, address, telephone
number of the parcel owner and provide other such information deemed necessary
by the Department.
   (C)   A valid driveway permit shall be obtained prior to the issuance of any
improvement location permit or building permit, unless the construction or
improvement of an entrance, driveway or approach is not necessary.
(Ord. 7-3-11, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 96.17 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Single access private driveways. All single use private entrances,
driveways or approaches shall be constructed in compliance with the provisions
of the Morgan County Subdivision Control Ordinance, as amended, originally
adopted on February 11, 2003.
   (B)   Multi-use, commercial and industrial driveways. All other entrances,
driveways or approaches other than single access private driveways, including
entrances to subdivisions, new roadways and commercial or industrial
entranceways shall be constructed in compliance with the latest provisions of
the Indiana Department of Transportation Driveway Permit Handbook ("INDOT
Handbook"). The INDOT Handbook may require the construction of deceleration
lanes, acceleration lanes, turn lanes, passing blisters and other such
improvements. The permit applicant shall provide location studies, design plans
or other such plans or engineering reports as necessary to comply with this
subchapter.
   (C)   Right-of-way acquisition. The permit applicant shall provide proof of
the acquisition of any right-of-way necessary for compliance with this
subchapter. It shall be the obligation of the applicant to obtain and secure
any right-of-way necessary. The applicant shall provide Morgan County any
right-of-way necessary for the improvement of any portion of a county road,
highway or street.
   (D)   Low volume multiple use driveway. Low volume multiple use private
driveways shall be constructed and improved in accordance with division (A) of
this section. A low volume multiple use driveway shall refer to any private
driveway, entrance or approach that shall serve not more than five single
family residences or two double family residences.
   (E)   Culvert pipe. Each driveway, when permanently completed, shall include
a culvert pipe of sufficient length and width to properly convey surface water.
The length and width shall be determined by the Department. Culvert pipe may
consist of metal, concrete, or plastic, as determined by the County Highway
Department and constructed as the Department directs.
   (F)   Temporary construction. As determined and directed by the Department,
until construction is complete on the applicant's property, swales, ditches,
and drainage basins, shall be temporarily filled with #2 stone. Prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the Department shall require the stone
to be removed and the culvert pipe installed pursuant to the Department's
specifications contained in the permit. The Department shall inspect the final
installation of culvert pipe and the driveway prior to a certificate of
occupancy being issued for the property.
(Ord. 7-3-11, passed 4-4-2005; Ord. 7-3-11.2, passed 8-6-2012; Ord. 2018-5,
passed 8-20-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 PERMIT FEES.
   The following fees are established for administration, inspection and
issuance of permits under this subchapter. The fees shall be collected by the
Department.
   (A)   Residential:
      (1)   $50 for each access point to the county road for a single-use
permit;
      (2)   $150 for each access point to the county road for a subdivision or
access to greater than one residence.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial: $150 for each access point.
(Ord. 7-3-11, passed 4-4-2005; Ord. 7-3-11.1, passed 3-21-2011)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Persons continuing to violate §
96.01 for more than 20 days after an order from the Board of Commissioners of
the county shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100, but each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6-3-5, passed 6-6-1994)
CHAPTER 97: POOLS AND SPAS
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Rules of construction and definitions
   
97.03   Permits
   
97.04   Minimum requirements; pools and spas
   
97.05   Compliance and inspections
   
97.06   Closure
   
97.07   Right of entry
   
97.08   Records of operation
   
97.09   Effective date
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is to regulate public and semi-public pools and spas with
regard to the health and welfare of people in public and semi-public water
settings. It is also to provide for the orderly, consistent, and effective
implementation of the Indiana State Board of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, as
amended.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 97.02 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of construction. All terms of this chapter, unless defined or
otherwise apparent from the context in which they are used, shall be construed
in terms of their plain and ordinary meaning. Masculine terms shall be
construed so as to include the feminine and singular terms shall include the
plural.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FACILITY. Any entity that includes a public pool, semi-public pool or
spa, or any combination thereof, at one address or location, operating either
semi-annually or annually, under one pool permit.
      FULL TIME POOL. Any public or semi-public pool that operates for more
than six months per calendar year.
      HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or his or her designee or
authorized representative.
      PUBLIC POOL. Any pool, including a wading pool, other than those pools
defined as a semi-public pool which is intended to be used for swimming or
bathing and is operated by a concessionaire, owner, lessee, operator, or
licensee, regardless of whether a fee is charged for use. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as applying to any pool, constructed at a one- or
two-family dwelling, and maintained by an individual for the sole use of the
household and house guests.
      SEASONAL POOL. Any public or semi-public pool that is operated outdoors
for less than six months each year.
      SEMI-PUBLIC POOL.
         (a)   Any pool, including a wading pool, that is intended to be used
for swimming or bathing and is operated solely for and in conjunction with:
            1.   Schools, universities, and colleges;
            2.   Hotels, motels, apartments, condominiums, bed and breakfasts,
or similar lodgings;
            3.   Camps or mobile home parks; or
            4.   Membership clubs or associations.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as applying to any
pool, constructed at a one- or two-family dwelling, and maintained by an
individual for the sole use of the household and house guests.
      SPA. A pool designed for recreational and/ or therapeutic use, commonly
known as a hot tub or therapy pool which is not drained, cleaned, and refilled
after each use. The term may include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Hydrojet circulation;
         (b)   Hot water;
         (c)   Cold water;
         (d)   Mineral baths;
         (e)   Sir induction systems; or
         (f)   Any combination thereof.
   (C)   419 I.A.C. 6-2.1. The definitions set forth in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 shall
be incorporated herein and shall apply to the application of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 97.03 PERMITS
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Valid permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a public or semi-public pool or spa in the county who does not possess
a valid permit issued by the Health Department. Each pool/spa operator shall
obtain a permit from the Health Department.
      (2)   Information provided on permit. The permit shall provide the name,
address and telephone number of the operator of the pool/spa, the name address
and telephone number of owner of the pool/spa and other pertinent information
required by the Health Department.
      (3)   Fees; transferability. The cost for this permit shall be as set
forth on the fee schedule for the Health Department and shall not be
transferable. The permit fee for a full time pool shall be due by January 1 of
each calendar year. The permit fee for a seasonal pool shall be due by May 15
of each calendar year or prior to pool opening if the pool should open prior to
that date.
      (4)   Expiration. All permits expire on December 31 of each year and must
be renewed thereafter on an annual basis on the dates described above.
      (5)   Inspections. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection
as set forth herein.
      (6)   Forms. The Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms
for this permit.
      (7)   Exemptions. A pool/spa operator shall be exempt from obtaining a
permit in the event the operator can demonstrate that the operator is subject
to permit and/or inspection by a state or federal agency that provides for
substantially similar regulation as this chapter.
   (B)   Specific requirements.
      (1)   One permit fee shall be charged per each facility.
      (2)   Any permit issued under this chapter is not transferable from one
person to another person, from one facility to another, or from one type of
operation to another.
      (3)   A permit fee shall be required from all entities operating a pool/
spa in the county.
      (4)   One permit fee shall be charged per each facility.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; POOLS AND SPAS.
   (A)   General requirements. Each pool and spa shall comply with the minimum
requirements specified in Indiana Administrative Code, 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, a copy
of which is available at the Health Department in Martinsville, Indiana, for
public inspection.
   (B)   Facilities to be kept clean; summary closure. In addition to the
requirements set forth above, each pool spa shall comply with the following
conditions:
      (1)   All shower rooms, dressing rooms, equipment rooms, and appurtenant
facilities shall be kept clean at all times. Daily disinfection of the areas
may be required.
      (2)   When a bathing area is in such condition as to pose an imminent
threat to the health of the public, the Health Department may order the bathing
area to be closed temporarily until such time as conditions are brought into
compliance with minimum requirements. This action may be taken by issuing an
order in writing.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspection. The Health Department shall conduct inspections of each
and every pool/spa located in Morgan County, Indiana. The Health Department may
conduct a minimum of one inspection per year. The Health Department may conduct
additional inspections as they determine and/ or in response to complaints
submitted to the Health Department The results of the inspections shall be
provided to each operator. Violations noted by the Health Department shall be
corrected immediately. The Health Department shall conduct follow-up
inspections as necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Suspension and/or revocation of permit. The Health Department may
suspend or revoke the permit of any operator for any period of time for any
violation of this chapter. The suspension and/or revocation shall be effective
upon the issuance of a written order of the Health Department. A suspended or
revoked permit may be reinstated upon subsequent inspection and demonstrated
compliance with this chapter. An owner may appeal an order of the Health
Department, by filing a written appeal with the Health Department. All appeals
shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq. The Board of Health
shall conduct administrative hearings concerning the suspension or revocation
of any permit issued herein as set forth in I.C. 4-21.5-3 et seq.
   (C)   Imminent health hazard.
      (1)   A pool/spa operator shall immediately discontinue operations and
notify the Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of
an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or
water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, gross
unsanitary occurrence or conditioner other circumstance that may endanger
public health.
      (2)   The operator must then obtain approval from the Health Department
before resuming operations.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 CLOSURE.
   A pool/spa shall be closed by the operator when any of the following occurs:
   (A)   Failure to meet bacteriological requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, § 31
(f), Public and Semi-Public Pools.
   (B)   Failure to meet the disinfectant concentrations of 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, §
30(b), Public and Semi-Public Pools.
   (C)   Failure to meet water clarity requirements according to 410 I.A.C. 6-
2.1, § 31(a), Public and Semi-Public Pools.
   (D)   The grate on the main drain is missing or broken.
   (E)   Failure to meet lifeguard requirements according to 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1,
§ 35, Public and Semi-Public Pools, if applicable.
   (F)   A pump, filter, and/or disinfectant feeders are nonoperational.
   (G)   All fecal accidents.
   (H)   Spa water temperature exceeds 104 degrees Fahrenheit.
   (I)   Failure to have the swimming pool under the supervision of an
individual who shall assume the responsibility for compliance with all parts of
410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 and this chapter.
   (J)   Failure to maintain a pH between seven and two-tenths (7.2) and seven
and eight-tenths (7.8).
   (K)   Detecting any measurable concentration of chlorinated isocyanurates
and cyanuric acid stabilizers used in an indoor pool.
   (L)   Any other imminent health hazard that could cause injury or illness.
(410 I.A.C. 6-2.1)
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Health Department may enter public or private property at reasonable
times upon presentation of credentials to do any of the following:
   (A)   Inspect facilities, equipment, or records.
   (B)   Investigate complaints.
   (C)   Conduct tests.
   (D)   Collect samples to obtain information required under this chapter.
   (E)   Determine whether any person is subject to, or in violation of, this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 97.08 RECORDS OF OPERATION.
   Operating records shall be logged daily, kept for a minimum of one year, and
be available upon request by the Health Department. The operating records must
contain the following:
   (A)   Disinfectant residuals and combined chlorine concentrations.
   (B)   pH readings.
   (C)   Volume of fresh water added.
   (D)   Operating periods of pool water recirculation pumps and filters and
the corresponding rate of flow meter readings.
   (E)   Amounts of chemicals used.
   (F)   Maintenance and malfunctioning of equipment.
   (G)   The date and time of any fecal events occurring in the pool, whether
it involved formed stool or diarrhea, and the free chlorine and pH levels at
the time of observation of the event. Before reopening the pool, the:
      (1)   Free chlorine and pH levels;
      (2)   Procedures followed in response to the fecal accident, including
the process used to increase chlorine levels (if necessary); and
      (3)   Contact time; must be recorded.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date for this chapter shall be January 1, 2014.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines. If a pool/spa operator shall operate a pool or spa without
first obtaining a permit, the operator shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $500. Each day the operator shall be in violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense which shall include a fine of not more than $50
per day.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Health Department may bring an action in the Circuit
or Superior Court to enforce this ordinance chapter, including for injunction
or any other available remedy, at law or otherwise. The Health Department shall
be entitled to recover all costs and expenses associated with any action for
enforcement of this chapter including reasonable attorney fees. The Health
Department may request revocation of operator's permit.
(Ord. 4-1-9, passed 11-4-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   DANCE HALL REGULATIONS
      
112.   RETAIL FOOD/BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   TATTOO PARLORS AND BODY PIERCING FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions and Regulations
   
110.01   Commercial scavengers
   
110.02   Landfills
   
110.03   Underground transmission devices
 
   
110.99   Penalty
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 110.01 COMMERCIAL SCAVENGERS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, COMMERCIAL SCAVENGER shall be
defined as any person, firm, partnership or corporation who shall transport for
others junk, trash, refuse, debris, brush, scrap metals, organic wastes or
similar materials and shall charge a fee to so transport such material.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the word LANDFILL shall mean the
county landfill located and being operated by Robert Warner pursuant to a
contract between the County Board of Commissioners and said Robert Warner,
dated May 1, 1974.
   (C)   As defined herein, the word OPERATOR shall mean Robert Warner, or any
person designated by him or by the county to be in charge of, supervise or
operate such landfill.
   (D)   All commercial scavengers shall be licensed by the County Board of
Commissioners before they shall be permitted to use such county landfill.
   (E)   The fee for such license shall be $25 per year; provided, however,
that for the year 1974 the fee for such license shall be $12.50. All such
licenses shall be good from January 1 to December 31 of the year in which they
were issued; provided, however, that the license for the year 1974 shall be
good from date of issuance until December 31, 1974.
   (F)   All commercial scavengers to be licensed, or to maintain their
licenses, shall conform to the following regulations.
      (1)   Any vehicle used by such commercial scavenger in transporting any
material to the landfill shall be properly licensed and have a valid safety
inspection sticker as provided under state law and such vehicles shall in all
ways conform to the laws of this state.
      (2)   The operator of such vehicles shall be properly licensed according
to the laws of the state.
      (3)   Such commercial scavengers shall maintain public liability
insurance in an amount not less than $100.
      (4)   Such commercial scavengers shall in all ways conform to weight
limitations and restrictions as set forth in the laws of the state and any
specific ordinances pertaining thereto which may be in effect in the county.
      (5)   Such commercial scavengers shall provide cover for all loads
containing paper, boxes, tin cans, brush or any other material whatsoever which
can by the nature of its weight and consistency blow off of the vehicle being
used to haul the same and that any such cover so used on such vehicle shall be
of such a nature as to prevent such material from blowing off such vehicle
while in route or in any other manner leaking or falling from such vehicle.
      (6)   In event any object or material shall leak from, fall from or blow
off of such vehicle, such commercial scavenger shall be responsible for picking
up the same and transporting the same to the landfill.
      (7)   Such commercial scavenger shall in all ways conform to the current
rules and regulations set up for such landfill.
      (8)   Such commercial scavenger shall be responsible for unloading and/or
dumping the material hauled at such location as the operator shall designate
and if necessary shall separate such material transported in such manner as the
operator of the landfill shall so designate.
      (9)   The commercial scavenger shall in all ways follow the instructions
of the operator of such landfill.
      (10)   Such commercial scavenger shall conform to any other laws or
regulations of the state or the county which may be applicable to the operation
of such commercial scavenger.
      (11)   Such commercial scavenger shall be entitled to use the landfill
during the hours that it shall be open without charge, except those as may be
set forth by the regulations covering such landfill.
      (12)   In event of the violation of any of the aforementioned
restrictions, the County Board of Commissioners may, at its discretion, revoke
the license granted, or in the event such commercial scavenger does not have a
license, shall refuse to grant such license to any such commercial scavenger.
(Ord. 4-3-2.1, passed 6-3-1974) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 LANDFILLS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, USER as used herein shall be defined
to refer to any person, firm, partnership or corporation who shall transport
junk, trash, refuse, debris, brush, scrap metals, organic wastes or similar
materials to the landfill.
   (B)   As defined herein, the word OPERATOR shall mean Robert Warner or any
person designated by him or by the county to be in charge of, supervise or
operate such landfill.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the word LANDFILL means the county
landfill located and being operated by Robert Warner pursuant to a contract
between the County Board of Commissioners and the said Robert Warner dated May
1, 1974.
   (D)   Such landfill shall be open to the public from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday, except it shall be closed on such legal holidays as
the Commissioners close the court house.
   (E)   All commercial scavengers shall obtain licenses from the County Board
of Commissioners as provided by county ordinance prior to using such landfill.
   (F)   There shall be no material dumped or unloaded at the entrance to such
landfill, except in containers specifically provided for such purpose.
   (G)   Brush and limbs shall be chipped prior to being deposited at such
landfill.
   (H)   The speed limit for all motor vehicles traveling within the confines
of such landfill and the roads therein shall be 10 mph.
   (I)   No domestic animals shall be permitted within the area of such
landfill.
   (J)   All material shall be dumped only at locations specified by the
operator and if the operator so designates the load shall be separated and
dumped in specific locations as designated by the operator.
   (K)   Additional fees shall be charged for automobile and truck bodies. Such
sum shall be $5 per body.
   (L)   Anyone using such landfill shall follow the instructions and directors
of the operator.
   (M)   No liquid waste shall be deposited at such landfill.
   (N)   No inflammable liquids, explosives, poisonous or toxic material, or
radioactive material shall be deposited at such landfill unless approved
specifically by the State Board of Health and by the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (O)   Such commercial scavenger shall provide cover for all loads containing
paper, boxes, tin cans, brush or any other material whatsoever which can by the
nature of its weight and consistency blow off of the vehicle being used to haul
the same and that any such cover so used on such vehicle shall be of such a
nature as to prevent such material from blowing off such vehicle while in route
or in any other manner leaking or falling from such vehicle.
   (P)   No user shall transport any junk, trash, refuse, debris, brush, scrap
metals, organic wastes or similar materials to the landfill which were picked
up or accumulated from any source outside of the geographical boundaries of the
county. Said restriction shall apply to any commercial scavenger who shall use
such landfill. If any user, including commercial scavengers, shall, after being
warned, continue to transport junk, trash, refuse, debris, brush, scrap metals,
organic wastes or similar materials which have been picked up or accumulated at
any residence, farm, commercial area or industrial site outside the
geographical limits of the county, then such user shall be banned from further
use of the landfill for such period of time as the operator shall designate;
provided, further, that any person so barred from use of the landfill shall
have the right to appeal the same to the Board of Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 4-3-2, passed 12-30-1974) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 UNDERGROUND TRANSMISSION DEVICES.
   (A)    No pipe line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground
transmission device shall be placed under, along or across any county street,
road or right-of-way except in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Prior to the placement of any such underground transmission device,
the corporation or other person desiring to place such device under, along or
across a county road shall submit detailed plans and specifications showing the
location of any such pipe line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground
transmission device in relation to the property lines, sewers, fences,
waterways, street, roadways and any other significant improvements or
topographical feature.
   (C)   No such pipe line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground
transmission device shall be placed under, along or across any county street,
road or right-of-way, until such plans and specifications for such placement
have been approved by the County Board of Commissioners, or its designee, and
no excavation or work of any type shall be commenced of putting any such pipe
line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground transmission device under,
along or across any county street, road, or right-of-way until such approval
has been obtained.
   (D)   Any corporation or person desiring to place pipe lines, cables, fiber
optic lines, or other underground transmission devices under, along or across
any street, road, or right-of-way shall post a bond satisfactory to the County
Board of Commissioners, in a sum set by the County Board of Commissioners,
guaranteeing that such corporation or person shall in all ways comply with this
section and that the plans and specifications for the placement of such line,
cable, or other underground transmission device shall be approved by the County
Board of Commissioners, and such bond shall not be released until the County
Board of Commissioners has determined such work is complete in all ways and
that said plans and specifications together with the requirements of this
section have in all ways been fulfilled; provided, further, that the County
Board of Commissioners shall have full rights to collect under such bond for
any damage to or expenses caused Morgan County due to the failure of any such
corporation or person to comply with the terms of this section or to comply
with the plans and specifications approved by the County Board of Commissioners
as aforesaid. Any individual corporation or utility which periodically places
such pipe lines, cables, fiber optics, and other underground transmission
devices under or along county highways regularly or repairing the same shall
carry a continuing bond with such terms subject to such approval.
   (E)   No such pipe line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground
transmission device shall be located within four feet of the edge of any
traffic lane nor shall any excavation be made within four feet of the edge of
the roadway surface unless prior specific approval as to a specific location is
obtained in writing from the County Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No work or excavation pursuant to the laying of any pipe line, cable,
or other underground transmission device shall be commenced until the
corporation or person desiring to place such underground transmission device
under, along or across any county street, road or right-of-way of Morgan
County, shall have first obtained public liability insurance in an amount no
less than $3,000,000 covering such injury to an individual and $1,000,000
covering injury to or growing out of any specific accident; and provided,
further, that such corporation or person shall in all ways indemnify and hold
harmless Morgan County and the County Board of Commissioners, both personally
and in their official capacity, for any accident or injury due to or growing
out of any excavation for any pipe line, cable, fiber optics, or other
underground transmission device, the placement of such device, or anything else
connected with or growing out of the placement or use of such underground
transmission device under, along, or across a street, road, or right-of-way of
Morgan County, Indiana.
   (G)   Any corporation or person so placing such underground transmission
device under, along, or across a street, road, or right-of-way of Morgan
County, shall in all ways refill and tamp all excavations so as to maintain the
original surface level; replace lawn or sod where removed; restore all breaks
and cuts in curbing and street-paving surfaces; maintain and restore all pipes
and drains; restore all ditches and watersheds in the condition in which they
existed prior to such excavation; maintain and restore all bridges to the
condition in which they were prior to the placement of any transmission devices
under, along, or across or adjacent thereto; and in all ways insofar as
possible finish said construction work so that no private or public property
will be weakened, damaged, destroyed or harmed.
   (H)   In the event any persons or corporation responsible for any such pipe
line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground transmission device
determine that it is necessary to repair such line, cable or other underground
transmission device, then all provisions of this section shall apply to such
repair work on such line, cable, or other underground transmission device
except insofar as such provisions shall be waived in writing by the County
Board of Commissioners.
   (I)   Any such corporation or person putting any pipe line, cable, fiber
optic line, or other underground transmissions device under, along, or across
any county street or road or right-of-way shall be fully responsible for all
precautions such as barricades, warnings, warning lights, and other safety
means and devices which may be necessary to prevent any hazard to other persons
or vehicular traffic traveling on or along any such county streets, roads or
rights-of-way which may be involved in such placements or repair of such pipe
lines, cables, fiber optic lines, or other underground transmission devices.
   (J)   No pipe lines, cables, fiber optic lines, or other underground
transmission devices shall be laid under, along, or across any county street,
road, or right-of-way between November 1st and March 15th; provided, further,
that no repair work on any such pipe line, cable, fiber optic line, or other
underground transmission devices shall be done during such period of the year
without the specific written consent of the County Board of Commissioners.
   (K)   Any such pipe line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground
transmission device placed under, along, or across any county street, road, or
right-of-way shall be placed in such a manner that the top of such line, cable,
or other underground transmission device shall not be less than 36 inches below
the surface of the ground.
   (L)   In event of crossing any paved county road, the individual,
corporation, or utility so crossing such road with a pipe line, cable, fiber
optic line, or other underground transmission device shall not cut the road or
otherwise disturb the pavement but shall drill under the same and such pipe
line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground transmission device shall
be placed within a steel pipe or similar tube which will allow removal or
repair of such pipe line, cable, fiber optic line, or other underground device
without cutting the road or disturbing the pavement.
   (M)   Any person who violates the terms of this section shall be subject to
a fine of $5,000 and subject to possible criminal charges, if applicable, under
the law.
(Ord. 6-3-2, passed 7-2-1984; Ord. 2019-9, passed 10-21-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   All violations of §
110.01 shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine of not less than $10 nor
more than $100.
   (C)   Any person who violates the terms of §
110.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not to exceed $500 or imprisoned not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 4-3-2.1, passed 6-3-1974; Ord. 6-3-2, passed 7-2-1984)
CHAPTER 111: DANCE HALL REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Permissible activity; hours of operation; permitting and licensure
   
111.02   Activities exempted from this chapter
   
111.03   Application for permit or license
   
111.04   Liability and medical payments; insurance required
   
111.05   Denial; grounds
   
111.06   Scope of permit and license
   
111.07   Fees
   
111.08   Indecent nuisance prohibitions
   
111.09   Effective date
   
111.10   Safe harbor for enforcement of chapter of existing dance hall
operations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITY; HOURS OF OPERATION; PERMITTING AND LICENSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold any dance or to own, operate or
allow the operation of any building or premises in the town open generally to
the public wherein persons under the age of 21 years of age are permitted to
enter, where dancing is indulged in or permitted and where music therefor is
performed live or reproduced by any type of electronic or mechanical device:
   (A)   Between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
   (B)   Without first obtaining a dance hall permit or annual dance hall
license therefor from the Commissioners.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 ACTIVITIES EXEMPTED FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   The permit or annual license required by this chapter shall not be required
under the following circumstances:
   (A)   For a dance held by a fraternal, educational, governmental, charitable
or religious organization, as long as admission to the dance is limited to
members and invited guests. The organization may not engage in a subterfuge to
avoid the requirements of this chapter;
   (B)   For a dance which is not advertised in any manner and not open to the
general public, and for which there is no admission fee or cover charge;
   (C)   For a dance which is located on premises which are licensed (and
defined in I.C. 7.1-1-3-20) for the sale of alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   For dances which are performed as an exhibition or theatrical
production, or part thereof, for the entertainment or benefit of an audience
which is not expected or encouraged to participate in dancing; and
   (E)   For any school or class, the purpose of which is to teach dancing.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT OR LICENSE.
   All applications for a permit or annual license required by this chapter
shall be in writing on a form designated by the Commissioners, and shall
contain, at a minimum, the following information and be signed by the
applicant:
   (A)   The name, mailing address and telephone number of the applicant, and
the names and addresses of all partners if a partnership, all officers of a
corporation, and all other persons who will be associated in the operation of
the business;
   (B)   For dance hall permit applications, the date and hours of operation,
the street address of the location of the dance, and the date of the dance;
   (C)   For annual dance hall license applications, the location (street
address), hours of operation, the maximum number of days per week that dances
will be held, the zoning designation of the property, and the capacity of the
dance hall as determined by the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief;
   (D)   Whether the dance or dances will be open to the public, and whether
there will be an admission charge, or any age or other restrictions on who may
be admitted;
   (E)   Whether the conditions described under §
111.05 of this chapter applies to the applicant, or partners in a partnership
or officers of a corporation operating or owning the public dance facility; and
   (F)   Any other information deemed appropriate by the Commissioners
including, but not limited to, that which is required by this or any other
ordinance, law or regulation.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.04 LIABILITY AND MEDICAL PAYMENTS; INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The applicant shall procure, and maintain throughout the term of the
permit or license, a policy of general premises liability insurance which names
the county as an “additional insured” party, and which would protect the
permittee or licensee and the town from any claims which may arise out of or
result from the operation of the dance or dances. The applicant shall file a
certificate of insurance with the Commissioners before a permit or license can
be issued.
   (B)   The limits of liability upon any insurance required under division (A)
above shall in no instance be less than $500,000 per occurrence.
   (C)   Premises medical payments coverage of no less than $50,000 per
occurrence shall be required of any licensee or permittee under this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.05 DENIAL; GROUNDS.
   The Commissioners shall not issue a dance hall permit or annual dance hall
license to any applicant if the following conditions exist:
   (A)   The facility at which the dance or dance hall activities are to be or
are conducted is located on property that is within 1,000 feet of any lot or
parcel of property on which a church or school exists;
   (B)   The facility at which dance or dance hall activities are to be or are
conducted is located on property that is within 1,000 feet of any lot or parcel
of property on which alcoholic beverages are sold;
   (C)   The application was not made at least 30 days prior to the time of
commencement of the dance;
   (D)   The applicant has been found in violation of any law relating to
alcoholic beverages, narcotics, disorderly or immoral conduct;
   (E)   Previous Board of Health violations occurred at a prior dance or dance
hall owned or operated by applicant;
   (F)   The applicant has been convicted of a felony; or
   (G)   The applicant has not reached the age of 21 years.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.06 SCOPE OF PERMIT AND LICENSE.
   (A)   Each dance hall permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall allow the
permittee to hold one dance at one location for a continuous period of less
than 24 hours, and a separate permit shall be required for each dance.
   (B)   In lieu of obtaining separate dance hall permits, a dance hall license
with a term of one year may be issued by the Commissioners. Annual dance hall
licenses shall be issued for a specified number of dance days per week for each
licensee, and a separate dance hall permit shall be required in the event that
an annual dance hall licensee desires to conduct dances on more dance days than
allowed by the license.
   (C)   A permit or license may be transferred to a location other than that
designated on the permit or license only upon application to the Commissioners
and the issuance of an amended permit or license.
      (1)   The amended permit or license shall be valid for the date or term
specified in the original permit.
      (2)   All permits are non-transferable and shall not be transferred or
assigned.
      (3)   Any change or modification in the ownership status of the permitee
or licensee shall immediately void the permit.
      (4)   Any successor, transferee or assignee of a permittee or licensee
must apply for a permit or license in his or her own name and capacity.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.07 FEES.
   (A)   A separate fee of $150 shall be paid for each dance hall permit issued
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The fee for an annual dance hall license obtained pursuant to this
chapter shall be the sum of $2,500.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.08 INDECENT NUISANCE PROHIBITIONS.
   The following constitutes an indecent nuisance:
   (A)   Playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or
operated, any radio or television receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, calliope, loud speaker or other machine or device for producing or
reproducing sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated, and who are
voluntary listeners thereto; and
   (B)   The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. in such a manner as to
violate existing ordinances in the county which govern the transmission of
sound which disturbs the peace and tranquility of others shall, in addition to
such other penalties, subject a dance hall to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on October 1, 2004.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.10 SAFE HARBOR FOR ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER OF EXISTING DANCE HALL
OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all dance halls and
dance hall operations in operation on or after the effective date of this
chapter.
   (B)   An existing dance hall may apply to the Commissioners for a temporary
exemption from the application of this chapter.
   (C)   The request for exemption must be in writing, received by the
Commissioners within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter, and state
the specific reasons for the exemption and the specific provisions of this
chapter from which exemption is desired.
   (D)   The Commissioners may grant an exemption for a period of time not to
exceed 45 days from the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   The Commissioners may extend the original exemption for an additional
45-day period, upon a written application and showing of good cause.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person and/or entity who violates provisions of this chapter and/
or creates and maintains an indecent nuisance, as defined in this chapter, and
who fails or refuses to abate such activity when so ordered by the
Commissioners, or the agent or designee, shall be in violation of this chapter
and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $2,500 for each
violation. Each day a person, permittee or licensee is in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate violation. The County Prosecutor or County
Attorney may prosecute and enforce this chapter and shall have the authority to
pursue any equitable remedy based upon a violation, including a preliminary or
permanent injunction.
   (B)   The remedies set forth in this section shall not be exclusive
remedies, in that an action against any person and/or entity to enforce a
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate and additional legal
remedy to any remedy available in equity or at law. The fact that any
proceedings have or have not been initiated by way of an injunction, or for the
abatement of any such indecent nuisance shall have no effect upon alternate
remedies.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties or provisions for enforcement of
this chapter, any entity, individual, permittee or licensee found to be in
violation of any provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for the
payment of all attorney fees and cost incurred by the person(s) or party
prosecuting the violation.
(Ord. 4-2-3, passed 8-16-2004)
CHAPTER 112: RETAIL FOOD/BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Definitions
Permits
   
112.015   General
   
112.016   Period
   
112.017   Content
   
112.018   Application
   
112.019   Qualification
   
112.020   Plan requirements
   
112.021   Change of ownership
   
112.022   Responsibilities of the operator
Fees
   
112.035   Permit fees
   
112.036   Exemption/waiver
   
112.037   Late fees
   
112.038   Non-transferrable; non-refundable
Inspection
   
112.050   General
   
112.051   Temporary food establishment
   
112.052   Mobile food establishments and caterers
   
112.053   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice
   
112.054   Reports
   
112.055   Timely correction of critical violations
   
112.056   Refusal to sign acknowledgment
   
112.057   Public information
Compliance and Enforcement
   
112.070   Application denial
   
112.071   Permit suspension
   
112.072   Ceasing operation; County Health Department
   
112.073   Resuming operation
   
112.074   Outstanding fees
   
112.075   Enforcement
Appeals
   
112.090   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. (As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5). An
operator-occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CATERING. (As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24). The preparation of food in an
approved retail food establishment and may include the transportation of such
food for service and consumption at some other site.
   COMMISSARY. (As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24). A registered catering
establishment, restaurant, or any retail food establishment in which food, food
containers, or food supplies are:
      (1)   Kept;
      (2)   Handled;
      (3)   Prepared;
      (4)   Packaged; or
      (5)   Stored; from which meals are catered and mobile retail food
establishments or pushcarts are serviced.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. (Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1 (b)(2)). A situation in
which the private interest of the County Official, the County Official's
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or an un-emancipated child,
may influence the County Official's judgment in the performance of a public
duty.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. (As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24). A written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in Morgan County/City
or his/her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a Hearing Officer in proceedings. The Hearing Officer is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the Health Department. (Examples of a
Hearing Officer could be the Health Board, a subcommittee of the Health Board,
a subcommittee of health professionals from the community or other non-biased
third party appointed by the Health Board.)
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation, which in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Health Department that is
completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that is:
      (1)   Wheeled;
      (2)   On skids;
      (3)   Mounted on a vehicle;
      (4)   A marine vessel; or
      (5)   Otherwise readily movable; such as a pushcart or trailer that
changes location too frequently to be a candidate for permanent utility
connections, as determined by the Health Officer.
   MORGAN COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Morgan
County or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment.
   MORGAN COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any official of Morgan County, Indiana.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. (Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9). A Health Department action of
particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties, privileges,
immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific persons. The term
includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Health Department that authorizes a
person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association, a corporation, an individual, partnership, or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD (Time/temperature control for safety food or
TCS). (Derived from 410 I.A.C. 7-24):
      (1)   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD means a food that is natural or
synthetic and requires temperature control because it is in a form capable of
supporting any of the following:
         (a)   The rapid and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic
microorganisms.
         (b)   The growth and toxin production of Clostridium botulinum.
         (c)   In raw shell eggs, the growth of Salmonella enteritidis.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   A food of animal origin that is raw or heat-treated.
         (b)   A food of plant origin that is heat-treated or consists of raw
seed sprouts.
         (c)   Cut melons.
         (d)   Garlic-in-oil mixtures that are not modified in a way that
results in mixtures that do not support growth as specified under division (1)
of this section.
      (3)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   An air-cooled hard-boiled egg with shell intact.
         (b)   A food with an aw value of 0.85 or less.
         (c)   A food with a pH level of 4.6 or below when measured at 75
degrees Fahrenheit.
         (d)   A food, in an unopened hermetically sealed container, that is
commercially processed to achieve and maintain commercial sterility under
conditions of nonrefrigerated storage and distribution.
         (e)   A food for which laboratory evidence demonstrates that the rapid
and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic microorganisms or the growth
of Salmonella enteritidis in eggs or Clostridium botulinum cannot occur, such
as a food that:
            1.   Has an aw and a pH that are above the levels specified under
divisions (3)(b) and (3)(c); and
            2.   May contain a preservative, other barrier to the growth of
microorganisms, or a combination of barriers that inhibit the growth of
microorganisms.
         (f)   A food that may contain an infectious or toxigenic microorganism
or chemical or physical contaminant at a level sufficient to cause illness, but
that does not support the growth of microorganisms as specified under division
(3)(a).
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (Derived from 410 I.A.C. 7-24):
      (1)   An operation that:
         (a)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as:
            1.   A restaurant;
            2.   Satellite or catered feeding location;
            3.   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly
to a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
            4.   A market;
            5.   A grocery store;
            6.   A convenience store;
            7.   A vending location;
            8.   A conveyance used to transport people;
            9.   An institution; or
            10.   A food bank; and
            11.   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority.
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off
the premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24). A retail food
establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
PERMITS
§ 112.015 GENERAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
in the county/city, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health
Officer. The valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food
establishment.
   (B)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a permit.
   (C)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
   (D)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
   (E)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by the Health Department shall be considered registered as required
in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.016 PERIOD.
   (A)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (B)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term of
15 days per calendar year. No more than one temporary food establishment permit
will be issued to each vendor per calendar year.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.017 CONTENT.
   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
   (A)   The name of the person and/or owner to whom the permit is granted;
   (B)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
   (C)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
   (D)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.018 APPLICATION.
   A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall submit to the Health
Department a written application for a permit on a form provided by the Health
Department.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.019 QUALIFICATION.
   To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
   (A)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
   (B)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment and/or temporary food establishment and provide required
information; and
   (D)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.020 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit to the
Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review and
approval before:
      (1)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment;
      (3)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/
or retail food establishment or food operation if the Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section; or
      (4)   The change of ownership of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment, if the Health Department determines that plans and
specifications are necessary to ensure compliance with this section.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall be submitted to the Health Department on
a form provided by the Health Department.
   (C)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and approved
by the Health Department before a permit can be issued.
   (D)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.021 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   The Health Department may renew a permit for an existing bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment or may issue a permit to a new
owner of an existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment after a properly completed application is submitted, reviewed,
and approved, the fees are paid, and an inspection shows that the establishment
is in compliance with this chapter. A full plan review may be required, if it
is determined to be necessary by the Health Department. Establishments must be
brought up to current code before a permit will be issued.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.022 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR.
   Upon acceptance of the permit issued by the Health Department, the operator
in order to retain the permit shall:
   (A)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
Indiana State Department of Health.
   (B)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the Health
Department if an imminent health hazard may exist.
   (C)   Allow representatives of the Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all reasonable
times.
   (D)   Comply with directives of the Health Department including time frames
for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices, orders,
warnings, and other directives issued by the Health Department in regard to the
operator's bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment or
in response to community emergencies.
   (E)   Accept notices issued and served by the Health Department.
   (F)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or directive
of the Health Department.
   (G)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
FEES
§ 112.035 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of such establishment.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually. Fees for continuously
operating establishments must be paid before February 1 of the calendar year or
the establishment will be closed. (Note: This does NOT apply to seasonal
establishments, unless they are open through the New Year, as they are not
continually operating. These establishments must pay before their opening date
each year.)
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment shall be set by the Health Department and the Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the Health
Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated by any person.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.036 EXEMPTION/WAIVER.
   The Department may waive the payment of permit fees for a not-for-profit
organization. In order to be eligible, the not-for-profit organization must
apply for the waiver in writing and the organization must not receive payment,
remuneration, or receive anything of value in exchange for the preparation or
distribution of foodstuffs, cooked or uncooked. An example of an eligible
entity would be a food pantry or soup kitchen.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.037 LATE FEES.
   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the operation of the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment or the late
fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of the permit to operate
the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall be
assessed as set by the Health Board.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.038 NON-TRANSFERABLE; NON- REFUNDABLE.
   The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable or refundable.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
INSPECTION
§ 112.050 GENERAL.
   The Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment as established by the written risk-based inspection
policy for food establishments.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.051 TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Health Department shall periodically inspect throughout its permit
period a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells, or serves
unpackaged potentially hazardous food and may inspect a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged, non-potentially
hazardous (non-TCS) food that:
   (A)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
   (B)   Has untrained food employees.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.052 MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND CATERERS.
   The Health Department shall inspect mobile food establishments and caterers
as established by the written risk-based inspection policy for food
establishments. A mobile food establishment or caterer is required to have an
approved commissary on file with the Health Department. The information
regarding the commissary must be supplied on a form provided by the Health
Department.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.053 ACCESS ALLOWED AT REASONABLE TIMES AFTER DUE NOTICE.
   After the Health Department presents official credentials and provides
notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the operator
shall allow the Health Department to determine if the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is
in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the establishment,
allowing inspection, and providing information and records specified in this
chapter. The Health Department is entitled to the information and records
according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment's hours of operation and other
reasonable times.
   (A)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
   (B)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law, including injunction.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.054 REPORTS.
   At the conclusion of the inspection, the Health Department shall provide a
copy of the completed inspection report and the notice to correct violations to
the operator or to the person-in-charge, as required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.055 TIMELY CORRECTION OF CRITICAL VIOLATIONS.
   Except as specified in §
112.056, an operator shall at the time of inspection correct a critical
violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and
implement corrective actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in
compliance with its critical limit.
   (A)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Health Department may agree to
or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator to
correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
   (B)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the Health Department shall verify correction of the violation,
document the information on an inspection report, and enter the report in the
Health Department's records.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.056 REFUSAL TO SIGN ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the operator's
obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report within the
time frames specified.
   (A)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the Health Department historical record for
the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary
food establishment.
   (B)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of the
Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.057 PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   Except as specified in section 176 (Trade Secrets) of 410 I.A.C. 7-24, the
Health Department shall treat the inspection report as a public document and
shall make it available for disclosure to a person who requests it as provided
in law.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.070 APPLICATION DENIAL.
   If an application for a plan review and/or permit to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is denied, the Health Department shall provide the applicant with
a notice that includes:
   (A)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
   (B)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for the
application and/or permit; and
   (C)   Advisement of the applicant's right of appeal and the process and time
frames for appeal that are provided in law.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.071 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   The Health Department may suspend a permit to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment if
it determines through inspection, examination of employee, food, records, or
other means as specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard
exists.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.072 CEASING OPERATION; COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue
operations and notify the Health Department if an imminent health hazard may
exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of
electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic
materials, onset of an apparent food-borne illness outbreak, gross unsanitary
occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
   (B)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.073 RESUMING OPERATION.
   If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated
above or otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the
Health Department before resuming operations.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.074 OUTSTANDING FEES.
   Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a permit may not be
issued.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 112.075 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Health Department is hereby authorized to establish a process and
promulgate rules for the issuing of tickets based on violation of Indiana Code,
as set forth in I.C. 16-42-5-28. The Health Department shall establish a
schedule of penalties adopted by the Indiana State Department of Health
pursuant to I.C. 16-42-5-28. In any event, the fine for violation shall not
exceed the sum of $1,000 for each violation, per day.
   (B)   The Health Officer may issue an "order to abate" based on a condition
that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the part of the
operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the order
in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the County
Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney. Enforcement of order before a court
may include a request for any available legal or equitable remedy, including
injunction, revocation of a permit, fines and payment of the Department's
attorney's fees and costs.
   (C)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation, the
Health Officer may request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney
to institute a proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance
violation.
   (D)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense, the
Health Officer may request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney
to institute a proceeding in the courts for enforcement pursuant to I.C. 16-20-
1-25 (c).
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
APPEALS
§ 112.090 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under §
112.075(A) or (B) shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a
Hearing Officer by filing a written request therefore with the Board of Health.
The written request must be mailed or hand delivered to Board of Health, 180
South Main Street, Suite 252, Martinsville, Indiana 46151, and must be received
within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Board of Health receipt of such request, the Board of Health
or its designee (hereinafter "Hearing Officer") shall hear the matter again in
an open hearing after at least five days written notice of the time, place and
nature thereof. The time shall be measured pursuant to the rules of the Health
Department.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person's mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Board of Health.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The final order completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-7-2016)
CHAPTER 113: TATTOO PARLORS AND BODY PIERCING FACILITIES
Section
   
113.01   Sanitary operation
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Tattoo operator training responsibilities
   
113.04   Tattoo operator responsibilities
   
113.05   Tattoo operator policies
   
113.06   Tattoo artist minimum training and certification requirements
   
113.07   Patron records
   
113.08   Illness
   
113.09   Handwashing
   
113.10   Personal protective equipment
   
113.11   Tattooing equipment
   
113.12   Needles
   
113.13   Reusable equipment
   
113.14   Dyes or pigments
   
113.15   Work environment
   
113.16   Infectious waste containment
   
113.17   Treatment and transport of infectious waste
   
113.18   Permits
   
113.19   Inspections
   
113.20   Revocation of permit
   
113.21   Body alterations prohibited
   
113.22   Conflict
   
113.23   Construction
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 SANITARY OPERATION.
   All places, individuals and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo to a person or that engage in body piercing shall be regulated
by this chapter, and shall maintain the premises in which tattoos or body
piercing are performed and equipment used in the tattoo or body piercing
process in a sanitary manner. For the purposes of this chapter, all regulations
and requirements set forth herein shall equally apply to body piercing, a body
piercer or a body piercing facility and any reference herein to a tattoo
operator, tattoo parlor or tattoo artist shall include body piercing, a body
piercer and a body piercing facility.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   HBV;
      (2)   HCV; and
      (3)   HIV.
   BODY ALTERNATION. Refers to any procedure that alters or manipulates the
body to appear differently through means that perforate the skin or would
otherwise be considered a medical or surgical procedure or require medical
licensure, including, but not limited to, the following: tongue splitting,
dermal anchors, scarification or implants.
   BODY PIERCER. Any person who performs body piercing on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part other than ear lobe
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other non-
medical purpose.
   CLEANED. The removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign
material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate
or destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use
or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department. The Morgan County Board of Health
shall be considered part of the DEPARTMENT.
   FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which is any
room or space where tattooing or body piercing, or both, is provided or where
the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both, is conducted.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer as set forth in I.C. 16-
20-2-16. The County Health Officer or designee shall be designated as the
official in charge of enforcing this chapter. The HEALTH OFFICER may designate
someone in the Health Department to perform those duties and responsibilities
of the HEALTH OFFICER.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biologicals
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood, and body fluids in-liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; and
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   MOBILE FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which
is any moveable room or space where tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
conducted.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM. The following:
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
living or dead; and
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cut or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment transport or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments;
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin;
      (3)   TATTOO shall include permanent makeup, which is a cosmetic
technique that employs tattoos as a means of producing designs which resemble
make-up; and
      (4)   The term TATTOO shall also include body piercing.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual or who
performs any type of piercing of the mucous membranes or the skin through which
needles or other objects are inserted for temporary or permanent placement. The
term TATTOO ARTIST shall include “body piercer”.
   TATTOO OPERATOR. A person who controls, operates, conducts, manages or owns
any tattoo parlor.
   TATTOO PARLOR. Any room or space where tattooing or body piercing is
provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing is conducted.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV and other bloodborne pathogens.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.03 TATTOO OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is a tattoo operator shall comply with the
following training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the Indiana occupational safety
and health administration’s bloodborne pathogens standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo artists, anyone employed by the
tattoo parlor, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo parlor who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists, anyone employed by the tattoo parlor, or anyone acting
on behalf of the tattoo parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (A) above is
maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s bloodborne pathogens standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the Department for inspection upon
request; and
   (D)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (B) above is
maintained.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 TATTOO OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The tattoo operator shall ensure that tattoo artists, anyone employed
by the tattoo parlor, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo parlor who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral
contact with blood are provided personal protective equipment and expendables
needed to implement the precaution required by this rule and the State
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
   (B)   The tattoo operator shall require tattoo artists, anyone employed by
the tattoo parlor, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo parlor who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral
contact with blood to provide evidence of compliance with the universal
precautions education requirements set forth in this chapter or otherwise
required by law.
   (C)   The tattoo operator shall display a description of compliance with the
requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   The tattoo operator shall display written materials prepared or
approved by the Department, explaining universal precautions and patrons’
rights under this chapter. These materials shall include information on how to
report violations of universal precautions and shall include information
regarding the Department’s duties to investigate.
   (E)   The tattoo operator shall ensure that no illicit drugs or alcohol are
consumed or permitted in the tattoo parlor.
   (F)   The tattoo operator shall ensure that no tattoo shall be affixed to
any person that is intoxicated.
   (G)   The tattoo operator shall maintain written records and verification
that the tattoo operator is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter
and shall provide the Department access to such records upon request and shall
have such records available during any inspection.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 TATTOO OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The tattoo operator shall develop a written policy in compliance with this
chapter and the requirements of the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s bloodborne pathogen standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing
and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated skin, eye,
mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste; and
   (C)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious waste safely.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 TATTOO ARTIST MINIMUM TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All tattoo artists, anyone employed by the tattoo parlor and anyone
acting on behalf of the tattoo parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall
complete the training program that is required under the requirements of the
State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s bloodborne pathogen
standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030). The programs under this section
shall be as follows:
      (1)   A bloodborne pathogen training session provided by the tattoo
operator meeting the requirements under the State Occupational Safety and
Health Administration’s bloodborne pathogens standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030); and
      (2)   Any bloodborne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   All tattoo artists, anyone employed by the tattoo parlor, and anyone
acting on behalf of the tattoo parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous-membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPM must be
trained in the tattoo parlor’s policies on the handling of infectious waste.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 PATRON RECORDS.
   Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years. The record shall
include the following:
   (A)   Patron’s name;
   (B)   Address;
   (C)   Age. Age must be verified by two items of identification, one of which
must be a valid government issued identification;
   (D)   Date tattooed;
   (E)   Design of the tattoo;
   (F)   Location of the tattoo on the patron’s body;
   (G)   The name of the tattoo artist who performed the work; and
   (H)   Parental consent must be in writing when performed on any minor as
permitted by law.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 ILLNESS.
   Tattoo artists who are experiencing symptoms of acute disease that include,
but are not limited to, the following, shall refrain from providing tattoos:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Rash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo or scabies.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 HANDWASHING.
   (A)   Handwashing facilities provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be readily accessible in the same room where tattooing is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single-use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses with solid side shield, or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves shall be worn during the tattooing process. Gloves
shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in
the application of the tattoo, when the gloves become torn or punctured, or
whenever the ability to function as a barrier is compromised. Disposable gloves
shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.11 TATTOOING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Only single-use razors shall be used to shave the area to be tattooed.
   (B)   All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
   (C)   If the design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied
with a single-use article only.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.12 NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to use.
   (B)   Needles shall be single-use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.13 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat-
stable, nondisposable equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed monthly.
   (C)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers;
      (2)   Labeled with the bio-hazard symbol:
      (3)   Leakproof on both sides and bottom; and
      (4)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (E)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization.
   (F)   Reusable tubes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized before use.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.14 DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only
nontoxic sterile materials shall be used. Single use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, sterilized containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.15 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing shall be conducted in any room used as living quarters or
in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping quarters.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing is being
conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers; or
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; or
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking or applying cosmetics shall not be allowed
in work areas where there is a likelihood of exposure to blood of OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
decontaminated after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization that
has been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and decontaminated.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Nonabsorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Cracks;
         (d)   Chips;
         (e)   Pits; and
         (f)   Similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach is 10% in water); the solution shall be dated and shall not be
used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.16 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers, tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the bio-hazard symbol, and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule prior to being stored in an unsecured area and sent
for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes that are contaminated sharps or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in containers that meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   Impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Labeled with the bio-hazard symbol; and
      (5)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed bio-hazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the containers, and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that they
are emptied unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have been protected
from contamination by disposable liners, bags or other devices that are removed
with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.17 TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All tattoo operators shall ensure that infectious waste is either
treated on-site in accordance with this rule or transported off-site for
treatment in accordance with this rule.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
      (1)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate infection
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfection under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation;
      (5)   Irradiation; or
      (6)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   The tattoo operator shall ensure that infectious waste, effectively
treated or not is transported off-site in compliance with 410 I.A.C. § 1-3.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.18 PERMITS.
   (A)   Tattoo parlor. Each tattoo parlor operation shall obtain a permit from
the County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and address of
the owner of the business and the name and address of each and every tattoo
artist located at each location. The cost for this permit shall be as set forth
on the fee schedule for the Health Department and shall not be transferable.
The permit expires on December 31 of each year and must be renewed thereafter
on an annual basis. All renewals of a permit shall be subject to the permit
fee. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set forth herein.
The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for this
permit. Said permit shall be posted at the tattoo parlor in the place where the
tattoos are performed and clearly visible to the public. In the event a tattoo
parlor operation shall conduct business without first obtaining a permit or
shall reinstate its permit after it has been revoked, the permit fee shall be
as double the amount of a permit.
   (B)   Mobile facility. Mobile tattoo/body piercing facility operations are
prohibited from operation in the county and no mobile facility shall be
eligible for a permit under this chapter.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.19 INSPECTIONS.
   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each and every
tattoo parlor located in the county. The Health Department may conduct a
minimum of one inspection per year. The Health Department may conduct
additional inspections as they determine and/or in response to complaints
submitted. The results of the inspections shall be provided to each operator.
Violations noted by the Health Department shall be corrected immediately. The
Health Department shall conduct follow-up inspections to determine compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.20 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Health Officer may suspend or revoke the permit of any tattoo
operator for any period of time for any violation of this chapter, state or
federal regulations concerning bloodborne pathogens, tattoos or work-place
regulations (OSHA).
   (B)   The suspension and/or revocation shall be effective upon issuance by
the Health Officer.
   (C)   The tattoo operator may have the permit reinstated upon compliance
with this chapter, state or federal regulation concerning bloodborne pathogens,
tattoos or work place regulations (OSHA) and to the satisfaction of the Health
Officer.
   (D)   Appeals of orders of revocation shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 4-
21.5-3-1 et seq.
   (E)   The Board of Health shall conduct administrative hearings concerning
the suspension or revocation of any permit issued herein as set forth in I.C.
4-21.5-3 et seq.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.21 BODY ALTERATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
perform body alterations.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 CONFLICT.
   The provisions of this chapter are intended to be supplemental to the laws
of the state, and to the extent that they may conflict with said laws, the laws
of the state shall control.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.23 CONSTRUCTION.
   All terms of this chapter, unless deemed or otherwise apparent from the
context in which they are used, shall be construed in terms of their plain and
ordinary meaning. Masculine terms shall be construed so as to include the
feminine, and singular terms shall include the plural.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If a tattoo operator shall fail to obtain a permit prior to the
conduct of his or her business or at any time after one has been issued, but
has expired, the tattoo operator may be subject to a fine of not more than
$2,500. Each day the tattoo artist and/or operator shall be in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The Health Officer may bring an action in the Circuit or Superior
Court to enforce this chapter. The Health Officer shall be entitled to recover
all costs and expenses associated with any action for enforcement of this
chapter including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 4-1-3.1, passed 8-1-2011)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DRUGS; PARAPHERNALIA
CHAPTER 130: DRUGS; PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
130.01   Sale of substances containing synthetic cannabinoids; use
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 SALE OF SUBSTANCES CONTAINING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS; USE.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2/
Spice, shall not be sold, marketed or offered for sale within the county.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 4-1-7, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Persons or entities violating the provisions of §
130.01 shall be subject to the fine not to exceed $2,500 for the first
violation and $7,500 for the second or subsequent violation.
(Ord. 2010-4-1-7, passed 8-16-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATS
      Cross-reference:
         Pools and spas, see
Chapter 97
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Technical Codes
   
150.01   Electrical rules and regulations
Residential Rental Property Regulations
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Applicability and general provisions
   
150.17   Standard for dwelling or dwelling units
   
150.18   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
TECHNICAL CODES
§ 150.01 ELECTRICAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All electrical wiring and all electrical installations and all repairs
to either of the same in or upon any buildings, structures and premises in the
county, except for the incorporated areas of Martinsville and Mooresville,
shall conform to the requirements of this code and section.
   (B)   All electrical equipment and installations shall be in conformity with
such approved standards for safety to life and property as are generally
recognized and used in this state and expressed in the standards herein
adopted.
   (C)   Conformity with the rules, regulations and standards prescribed in the
September 1959 National Electrical Code published in November 1959 (NBFU #70),
being the rules, regulations and standards of the National Board of Fire
Underwriters for Electrical Wiring and Apparatus, two copies of which have been
filed with this section in the office of the Auditor of the county, and are to
be kept there for public inspection and which are hereby incorporated in this
section and made a part thereof by this reference thereto, as fully as though
re-copied herein and which are hereby adopted as the electrical rules and
regulations of this section which shall be prima facie evidence of conformity
with approved standards for safety to life and property.
   (D)   In addition to the above referred- to Electrical Code, the following
rules and regulations are hereby adopted.
      (1)   Service entrance equipment for all new single and two-family
residences where construction is started after effective date of this section
shall be rated not less than 100 amperes.
         (a)   The service equipment shall be rated 100 amperes 120/240 volts
3-wire solid neutral with 100 amperes main fused disconnect or 100 ampere
circuit breaker. If any portion of the building of over 500 square feet is to
be occupied before the building is completed, the service entrance equipment
must be 100 amperes at the start.
         (b)   Service entrance conductors shall be a minimum of two #2 copper
type RH, RW or TW and one #4 bare copper stranded neutral or equivalent except
that SW copper #6 entrance cable or equivalent will be permitted with 60 ampere
service equipment.
      (2)   For trailers and occupancies other than residential, the service
equipment shall be a minimum of 60 amperes, if a switch is used, or 50 amperes
if a breaker is used; however, for installations consisting of not more than
one 2-wire branch circuit, a switch or circuit breaker of 30 ampere rating may
be used.
      (3)   Service entrance conductors shall have a carrying capacity of not
less than the rating of the service entrance equipment.
      (4)   On 120/240 volt three-phase four-wire delta services for
combination 240-volt, three-phase power and 120/240 single-phase lighting, the
phase conductor having higher voltage to ground shall be either a red coded
wire or identified with red glyptal paint or equivalent.
         (a)   All phase wires of the service conductors shall be of equal
size.
         (b)   Each separately metered installation shall be equipped with an
approved circuit switch or circuit breaker.
      (5)   All insulated wires shall be plainly marked as to the type and
size.
      (6)   “BX” type cable shall not be used.
      (7)   The service and meter locations are subject to the approval of the
utility providing the electric service.
      (8)   Range circuits for domestic ranges shall be a minimum of three #6
copper conductors.
      (9)   Motor units on fossil fuel heating equipment must be installed on
separate circuits.
      (10)   Non-metallic sheathed cable installed below the ceiling line in
basements shall be protected where exposed to mechanical or physical injury.
      (11)   All domestic water supply pumps shall be equipped with an approved
disconnect switch.
      (12)   No electric water heater or clothes dryer will be served with
smaller wire than #10 AWG copper wire.
         (a)   No electric hot water heater shall be serviced with electricity
until the following is installed: an approved pressure relief valve on the cold
water line, or an approved temperature relief valve on the hot water line, or
an approved combination pressure and temperature relief valve on the hot water
line, with the temperature-sensing element in the top of the tank.
         (b)   All electric water heaters and clothes dryers shall be properly
grounded.
      (13)   All wiring for light and power shall be installed so as to make
all raceways, outlet boxes, and equipment grounded, in accordance with the
National Electrical Code.
      (14)   Recessed fixtures shall not be used as junction boxes.
      (15)   All service equipment, distribution and control switches shall be
readily accessible as defined in the National Electrical Code.
      (16)   All sump pumps shall be grounded in an approved manner.
      (17)   The grounding conductor must be connected to the city water piping
system, if one is available.
         (a)   If a city water system is not available, an approved one-half
inch in diameter by ten feet in length copper-weld ground rod shall be used for
grounding purposes.
         (b)   If there is a domestic water supply system with any metallic
water piping on the premises, this piping shall be grounded to the common
neutral ground of the customer service entrance equipment with not less than #6
copper wire. Any rubber or plastic hose connections in the metallic piping
system shall be electrically bonded.
      (18)   Ground clamps on water piping of copper, brass or lead shall be of
copper, and those for use on galvanized or iron pipe should be of galvanized
iron and so designed that they will avoid mechanical injury to the pipe.
      (19)   Where the necessity for the temporary use of electric current in
any installation is shown to exist, or the temporary use of electrical current
is needed during the construction or altering of any building, the Inspector
may grant permission for such temporary wiring or apparatus or fixture for a
period not exceeding 120 days; however, extension may be granted by the
Inspector.
   (E)   Whenever any of the aforesaid sets of rules, regulations and standards
so incorporated herein by reference thereto in the foregoing divisions (C) and
(D) above may be hereinafter amended or supplemented and whenever such changes
in all or any thereof are adopted by any later ordinance and two copies of any
such amended or supplemented rules, regulations and standards or lists are
filed with the County Auditor and kept by him or her as aforesaid, any or all
of such changed rules, regulations and standards or lists shall thereupon also
become a part of this code.
   (F)   After the effective date of this section, no person, persons or
corporations shall install any electrical wiring or electrical installation or
make any repairs or either of the same except in accordance with the aforesaid
code.
   (G)   No person, persons or corporation shall use any electrical device
installed in violation of this section; however, all electric utilities shall
be exempt from the terms of this section and their operation shall be
controlled and in conformity with the existing National Electrical Code as the
same effects their operations in providing service to their customers.
   (H)   The Executive Secretary of the County Plan Commission shall administer
and enforce this section, including the inspection and approval of all
electrical wiring and installation and repairs of the same and no electrical
wiring shall be approved by such Executive Secretary, except where the
provisions of this section shall have been complied with.
   (I)   No electrical service shall be made unless a permit has been issued
for such service by the Executive Secretary of the County Plan Commission.
      (1)   The permit can be obtained at the County Plan Commission office in
the County Courthouse by either the contractor or the customer.
      (2)   The inspector will place an inspection tag on the service
connection after inspection is made and passed.
      (3)   On all interior branch circuit conductors, nothing smaller than 12/
2 romex will be accepted; however, due to recent manufacture of many appliances
being equipped with the three-prong grounding type plug, it is highly
recommended that 12/2 romex with ground be used. BX or armored cable will not
be accepted under any circumstance. It is also suggested that on kitchen
appliance circuits, number 10/2 with ground be used.
   (J)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person or corporation
to use any electrical device installed subsequent to the date of this section
if said electrical device has not been inspected and approved by the Executive
Secretary.
   (K)   As used in this section, the term electrical device shall include all
manner of electrical wiring and power installations of every sort and
character.
   (L)   The Executive Secretary will maintain records showing what structures
and installations as concerned in this section have been inspected by him or
her.
   (M)   Inspection fees to be collected by the Executive Secretary for the
electrical service inspection are hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Wiring for branch circuits (roughing-in):
         (a)   One circuit: $2; for each additional circuit up to and including
20, add $0.50;
         (b)   Twenty circuits: $20; for each additional circuit more than 20
add $0.25; and
         (c)   A three-wire circuit is considered the same as two 2-wire
circuits.
      (2)   Motors, generators and the like (or feeders for same, if entire
installation is not complete):
         (a)   Over two and one-half HP (horsepower) to ten HP: $2;
         (b)   Over ten HP to 20 HP: $3;
         (c)   Over 20 HP to 50 HP: $4;
         (d)   Over 50 HP: $5;
         (e)   Each additional motor, device or machine covered by the same
inspection as follows:
            1.   Over two and one-half HP to ten HP: $1.50;
            2.   Over ten HP to 20 HP: $2;
            3.   Over 20 HP to 50 HP: $2.50; and
            4.   Over 50 HP: $3.
         (f)   Note: wherever horsepower is referred to in this division (M)
(2), the same shall be construed as horsepower or kilowatt as the case may be.
      (3)   Stoves, welders, rectifiers, trans-formers, switchboards, and
miscellaneous devices: apply motor schedule:
         (a)   Minimum fee for stoker motor: $1.50; and
         (b)   Minimum fee for heaters and ranges (more than 660 watts): $2.
      (4)   Reinspection fees (to apply to reinspection of old work when
requested by contractors and owners, also for re-inspections made necessary by
defects):
         (a)   One circuit: $2; to which add $0.25 for each additional circuit
up to and including ten; and
         (b)   Ten circuits: $3.75, to which add $0.15 for each additional,
more than ten.
      (5)   Service entrance only:
         (a)   Two-wire service: $2;
         (b)   Three-wire service: $2.50;
         (c)   Four-wire service: $3; and
         (d)   No charge for services when job consists of circuits or
connected load.
(Ord. 5-1-1, passed 12-6-1960)
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of the building located partly underground, but having
less than two-thirds of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average
grade of adjoining ground.
   BEDROOM. A room or space primarily used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having two-thirds of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade
of adjoining ground.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1(b)(2), means a situation
in which the private interest of a county official, county official’s spouse,
ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated child, may
influence the county official’s judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   DEPARTMENT. The Morgan County Health Department.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary housing as
defined in this section shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling forming a
single habitable unit when those units possess facilities which are used, or
intended to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation; and/
or
      (2)   Any mobile home.
   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A small, one-room apartment or dwelling that serves as
the occupant’s total sleeping and living area, which does not contain kitchen
facilities, and in which the owner does not permit the storage or cooking of
food.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or
trapping or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room of enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes; excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating corridor
closets and storage spaces.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Morgan County Health Officer having jurisdiction in the
county/city or his or her duly authorized representative.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition which poses a serious or imminent
health risk to the public, or the residents or occupants of a dwelling.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of any insect, rodent
or other pest.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Morgan County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the owner or occupant.
   MOBILE HOME. A self-propelled or non-self- propelled vehicle or trailer
designed for occupancy as a dwelling or sleeping place, which definition
includes recreational vehicles and does not include vehicles or trailers
affixed to real estate by a permanent foundation or temporary support.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in or having actual
possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or any
part thereof, in which a dwelling or dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, individual, partnership, association, limited liability
company or corporation having title or interest in a dwelling or dwelling unit
subject to this subchapter.
   PLUMBING. The following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipe, gas-
burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including any structures thereon.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged and occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage, and
the term shall include residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust that could be a health risk.
   SEASONAL HOUSING. Any cabin, mobile home or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be seasonal or temporary, which may or may not be
affixed or attached to real estate, which may have utility service (water,
electric, gas, septic or sewer), and is intended for occupation seasonally and
not for greater than 30 consecutive days and not for greater than six months of
a calendar year. SEASONAL HOUSING must be owner/occupied and shall not be
leased or used for commercial purposes.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, mobile home or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be temporary, is transportable, is not affixed or
attached to real estate, and which does not have utility service (water,
electric, gas, septic or sewer) for greater than 30 days.
   TENANT. A person, individual, partnership, association, limited liability
company or corporation having a possessory or occupancy interest in a dwelling
or dwelling unit.
   VECTOR. An organism that carries disease-causing microorganisms from one
host to another.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. 4-2-4, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 150.16 APPLICABILITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   This subchapter shall apply to all rental dwellings and rental
dwelling units located in the county.
      (2)   This subchapter shall apply to rental dwellings and rental dwelling
units located in incorporated cities or towns within the county, unless the
city or town has adopted an ordinance regulating the sanitary conditions of
rental dwellings and rental dwelling units.
      (3)   No rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit shall be inhabited
unless the provisions of this subchapter are met.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above, the Health Officer, or his or her
designee, may enter a dwelling or dwelling unit in situations constituting an
imminent danger to public health, risk of injury or as otherwise authorized by
I.C. 16-20-1.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of the county,
through this subchapter, to provide for the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the county through the implementation of minimal health and
sanitary standards for rental residences and rental dwellings.
   (C)   Health Department jurisdiction and rule making. The Health Department
shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The
Health Department is granted the authority to promulgate rules with the
approval of the Board of Health in order to implement the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 4-2-4, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 150.17 STANDARD FOR DWELLING OR DWELLING UNITS.
   Each dwelling and/or dwelling unit subject to the provisions of this
subchapter shall meet and comply with the following standards and regulations.
   (A)   Thermal standards. All dwellings and dwelling units shall be provided
with operational and functional heating equipment and appurtenances capable of
adequately heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms to a temperature of at
least 68°F.
   (B)   Sanitation.
      (1)   All dwellings and dwelling units shall be maintained in a sanitary
condition and fit for human occupancy. All garbage and rubbish must be stored
or disposed of in a clean, safe and sanitary manner. All garbage and rubbish
shall be stored and disposed of in a manner that does not permit it to be a
food source for rodents or other vectors.
      (2)   All inhabited or uninhabited property shall be maintained in a
manner to prevent conditions in which rats, mosquitoes or other disease vectors
have food, shelter or a place to breed. An owner and a tenant shall be
responsible and obligated to maintain the dwelling unit in compliance with this
provision.
      (3)   A violation of this provision may be enforced against both an owner
and/or a tenant, either individually, jointly or joint and severally, pursuant
to §
150.18.
   (C)   Basic equipment and facilities.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have an area in which food may be
prepared and cooked, and shall be equipped with the following:
         (a)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected
to an approved water supply and sewer system. The sink must provide an adequate
amount of water under pressure, both unheated and heated, to no more than
120°F;
         (b)   Cabinets, shelves, counters or tables used for the storage of
food, utensils and eating, drinking or cooking equipment, shall be furnished
with surfaces that are clean and that will not impart any harmful effect to
food;
         (c)   Each dwelling shall have a stove, oven or microwave oven for
cooking food and a refrigerator for the safe storage of food at temperatures of
less than 45°F, unless a lease agreement requires the lessee to provide any or
all of these appliances. These appliances shall be properly installed and all
necessary connections for safe, sanitary and efficient operations shall be
maintained in good working conditions. When the occupant is expected to provide
these appliances, adequate space and connections for the safe and efficient
installation and operation shall be provided by the owner; and
         (d)   This division (C)(1) shall not be applicable to a dwelling or
dwelling unit in which cooking is not permitted, such as a hotel, motel,
sleeping room or efficiency apartment.
      (2)   Every dwelling shall have a flush toilet. The toilet shall be:
         (a)   In good working condition; and
         (b)   Properly connected to a water system that provides an adequate
amount of running water under pressure to cause the toilet to operate properly.
      (3)   Every dwelling shall have a lavatory sink. The sink must be in
close proximity to a flush toilet in order to allow for washing and the like,
after use of the toilet. The sink shall be:
         (a)   In good working condition;
         (b)   Properly connected to a water system that provides an adequate
amount of water under pressure, both unheated and heated to no more than 120°F;
and
         (c)   The water inlet shall be located at least one inch above the
overflow rim or otherwise designed to prevent backsiphonage.
      (4)   Every dwelling shall have a bathtub or shower. The bathtub or
shower shall be:
         (a)   In good working condition;
         (b)   Properly connected to a water system that provides an adequate
amount of water under pressure, both unheated and heated to no more than 120°F;
and
         (c)   The water faucet opening shall be located at least one inch
above the overflow rim or otherwise designed to prevent backsiphonage.
      (5)   All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer or to an approved private sewage disposal system. Every plumbing
stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall function properly.
   (D)   Seasonal housing exception.
      (1)   Seasonal housing shall be exempt from the provisions of division
(C) above, except that in the event the seasonal housing contains the equipment
and/or facilities set forth in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(5) above, the
seasonal housing shall comply with those provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   In addition, all seasonal housing must have a system or means of
disposing of sewage and waste that is approved by the Health Department.
(Ord. 4-2-4, passed 10-17-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inspections and complaints. After providing reasonable notice to the
owner or occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit subject to this subchapter,
the Health Department may request entry to inspect the dwelling or dwelling
unit to ensure compliance with this subchapter, including taking any necessary
measurements, observations, sampling or testing. The notice is to be mailed to
the owner of the dwelling at the address listed in the records of the County
Auditor. If entry is not granted to the Health Department by the owner and/or
the occupant, the Health Department may seek a warrant from a judicial officer
or magistrate. Any warrant must be issued upon the finding of probable cause
that a violation of the ordinance has occurred. The Health Department shall
develop a complaint procedure so that citizens may make complaints alleging
violation of this subchapter. All complaints shall be made in writing, state
the address of the dwelling, the name, address and telephone number of the
owner of the dwelling, the relationship of the complainant to the dwelling
(tenant, neighbor, law enforcement and the like), state the nature of the
alleged violation, the date the violation was observed, the name, address,
telephone number of the complainant and the complaint must be verified.
Notwithstanding the above, the Health Officer, or his or her designee, may
enter a dwelling or dwelling unit in situations constituting an imminent danger
to public health, risk of injury or as otherwise authorized by I.C. 16-20-1.
   (B)   Notice of violation. When the Health Department determines that there
are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this subchapter, the Health Department shall provide notice of
such alleged violation to the person in violation of the ordinance and to the
owner of the dwelling or dwelling unit. Such notice shall be in writing,
include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued, allow a reasonable
time for the performance of any act required to remedy the situation, be served
by first class mail to the last known address of the owner as determined by the
records of the County Auditor and a copy of the notice of violation shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on or about the building, dwelling or dwelling
unit. Such notice must contain an outline of any remedial action requested, the
date by which the remedial action shall be performed. If the remedial action
requested is performed within the time limit prescribed, there shall be no
violation. Failure to comply with a request for remedial action shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-2-4, passed 10-17-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, persons or corporations, either as principal agents,
employees or otherwise, who violate any of the provisions of §
150.01, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than $10 and not more than $300 for each offense. Each day in which a
condition exists on which an improper use is made of any electrical device not
in conformity with §
150.01 shall constitute a separate offense. The County Plan Commission may also
institute a suit for a mandatory injunction directing any person, firm or
corporation to remove any electrical device placed or installed in violation of
the provisions of §
150.01. If the Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear
the costs of action, including reasonable attorney fees to be allowed by the
court. The remedy provided herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive and
shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (C)   Each day in which a violation of §§
150.15 through
150.18 remains in existence shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
A fine for initial violation of §§
150.15 through
150.18 shall not exceed the sum of $250 for each violation. The maximum fine
for a second or subsequent violation of §§
150.15 through
150.18 by any person shall not exceed the sum of $2,500.
(Ord. 5-1-1, passed 12-6-1960; Ord. 4-2-4, passed 10-17-2005)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose, and Methods
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
General Provisions
   
151.20   Definitions
   
151.21   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.22   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.23   Basis for establishing fluvial erosion hazard map
   
151.24   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.25   Compliance
   
151.26   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.27   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.28   Interpretation
   
151.29   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.30   Penalties for violation
Administration
   
151.40   Designation of Administrator
   
151.41   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
151.42   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.43   Administrative procedures
   
151.44   Map maintenance activities
   
151.45   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.60   Floodplain status standards
   
151.61   General standards
   
151.62   Specific standards
   
151.63   Standards for subdivision and other new developments
   
151.64   Standards for critical facilities
   
151.65   Standards for fluvial erosion hazard areas (FEHA)
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND METHODS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Board of Commissioners of Morgan County, Indiana does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the county and the Towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, aud
Paragon are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, aud general welfare. Additionally, structures that are
inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of such
damages and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these regulations
are adopted. A FEB-based river corridor map shows the area a river needs to
accommodate equilibrium conditions, specifically the meanders (stream length)
and slope requirement of a stable stream channel. It also shows the land most
vulnerable to erosion from flooding. Preventing further encroachment into the
river corridor will minimize fluvial erosion hazards and property loss from
flooding, enhance public safety, maximize channel stability, and maintain or
improve water quality and habitat function.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (I)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (J)   To not allow any new primary building in the SFHA/FEHA;
   (K)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (L)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (M)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (N)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them meaning they have in common
usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; or
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard, or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a Board decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See “Structure.”
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any man-made change to improved
or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers,
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or, gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See “Lowest Floor” and “Enclosed Area.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction  of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, means any material deposited or
placed which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above
the natural grade elevation. FILL material includes but is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a flood as defined above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See
“Special Flood Hazard Area.”)
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See “Floodplain.”)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The BFE plus three feet at any given location
in the SFHA. (See “Freeboard.”)
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See “Flood.”)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOOD- PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG (three feet above the base flood elevation). This certification must be
by a registered  professional engineer or architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FLUVIAL EROSION. Erosion caused by streams and rivers. FLUVIAL EROSION can
be catastrophic when a flood event causes a rapid adjustment of the stream
channel size and/or location.
   FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD AREA (FEHA). The stream and adjacent lands necessary
to accommodate the slope and plan form requirements of a geomorphically stable
channel, and is subject to fluvial erosion as defined by the Indiana Pluvial
Erosion Hazard Mitigation Program and delineated on the current fluvial erosion
hazard map (FEHM).
   FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD MAP (FEHM). The Indiana Silver Jacket Project Fluvial
Erosion Hazard Regional Map of the Upper White Watershed for Morgan County
dated March 25, 2014.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. The county requires three
feet of free board.
   FRINGE OR FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by (a)
an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or (b)
directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL- EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES REPORTS provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified, installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA's comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or area of land
is not located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation
data. A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA's modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building;
      (2)   The basement floor;
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building;
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars;
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1), as long
as it meets the requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes means the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PURPOSES. Any structure for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. See "Regulatory Flood".
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRIMARY BUILDING. A building (including any structure that is attached in a
substantial way, such as a roof) on a property in which it is the principal use
of the property. With respect to residential use, it means the main dwelling.
With respect to a commercial/industrial use, it means the main operational
center or main building for the business. This does not include an accessory
building. (New primary buildings not allowed in the SFHA/ FEHA.)
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.22. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “Base Flood”, “One-
Percent Annual Chance Flood,” and “100-Year Flood.”
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non-liquid, non-soluble materials ranging from municipal garbage to
industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
Solid waste also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Synonymous with “Areas of Special Flood
Hazard” and floodplain, means those lands within the jurisdiction of Morgan
County and the Towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon are subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate
maps, flood insurance studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood
hazard boundary maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, Al-30, A99, or VE. The SFHA
includes areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal, state or
local sources of data including but not limited to best available flood layer
maps provided by or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
historical flood information reflecting high water marks, previous flood
inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building pe1mit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of sheets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.21 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs/FEHAs within the jurisdiction of
Morgan County and the towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon, Indiana as
identified in §
151.22, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by
Morgan County and the Towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon, Indiana.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.22 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Morgan County, Indiana and the towns
of Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon, delineated as an “AE Zone” on the Morgan
County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated October
2, 2014 shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the
Flood Insurance Study of Morgan County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the
corresponding flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) dated October 2, 2014 as well as
any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. Should the floodway
limits not be delineated on the flood insurance rate map for a studied SFHA
designated as an “AE Zone,” the limits of the floodway will be according to the
best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Morgan County, Indiana and the towns of
Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon, delineated as an “A Zone” on the Morgan County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map, dated October 2, 2014,
as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date, shall be
according to the best available flood layer provided by the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site
is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available flood layer data, the party needs to replace existing data with
better data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this
data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.23 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD MAP.
   The FEHAs shall be as identified on the Indiana Silver Jacket Project
Fluvial Erosion Hazard Regional Map of the Upper White Watershed for Morgan
County, Indiana dated March 25, 2014. The map was developed by the Indiana
Fluvial Erosion Hazard (FEH) Mitigation Program. The refined corridor shows
areas of potential lateral channel migration. These areas have been derived
from predicted channel meander belt width. No assumptions are made or implied
regarding when lateral channel migration might occur. It also is not implied
that areas outside of the refined corridor will not experience lateral channel
migration: only that there is a higher potential for erosion inside the refined
corridor. Only streams with a drainage area of great than two square miles have
been mapped. This map is designed to be used to a maximum scale of one to
10,000. Use of this map at a high resolution may be misleading. Additional
details about why and how this map was produced, and its intended uses are
available at the FEH program web-site.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.24 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this ordinance prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard/fluvial erosion hazard.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.25 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFRA/FERA without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFRA/FERA shall hereafter be altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.26 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.27 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFRA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFRA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.28 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.29 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of Morgan County and the towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, and
Paragon, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana,
for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter, or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.30 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA/FEHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the County Unified Development Ordinance as
amended, and the penalty provisions thereof.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county or the towns from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Plan Director shall administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.41 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area/
fluvial erosion hazard area. Such application shall be made by the owner of the
property or his/her authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant,
prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form furnished for
that purpose. Such applications shall include, but not be limited to plans
drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the
area in question, existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of
materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure.
      (5)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (6)   A letter from a licensed professional surveyor or engineer noting
that an elevation reference benchmark has been established or confirmed for
those projects requiring elevations to be met.
      (7)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or to
an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the respective
regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a restroom,
kitchen or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (8)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AH, and AE.
Elevation should be in NAVD 88.
      (9)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (10)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade.
      (11)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant.
      (12)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse.
      (13)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed and/or
located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88.
      (14)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR
for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA conditional letter of map
revision must be obtained prior to construction. (See §§
151.42(G) and
151.44 for additional information.)
      (15)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation
certificate for the building under construction. Said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the
review shall be corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project. Any work
undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification shall be at the
applicant's risk.
   (C)   Finished construction.
      (1)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the “as-
built” lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
      (2)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met, including
compaction.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.42 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas/fluvial erosion hazard areas to assure that the permit requirements of
this chapter have been satisfied.
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas/fluvial
erosion hazard areas when the provisions of these regulations have been met or
refuse to issue the same in the event of non- compliance.
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit.
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas/
fluvial erosion hazard areas, must meet the development standards of these
regulations.
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure.
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the pre-
damaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in the
project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community.
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of “substantial improvement” for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage.
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
151.60 through
151.64 are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
151.60(A), (C)(1), and (D). Maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/ authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment).
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if division (B)
(9) above is applicable.
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.41.
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.41.
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
151.43.
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for increased cost of
compliance (ICC) funds.
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with §
151.43.
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
151.43.
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
151.44.
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.43 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work, minimum of three, as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being
done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the
permit. The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure's footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. In exercising this power, authorized county or town
officials have the right, upon presentation of proper credential, to enter on
any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, flood insurance rate maps; letter of map
change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at the
Morgan County Administration Building, Plan Commission Office, 180 South Main
Street, Martinsville, IN 46151.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.44 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that the Morgan County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas
Flood Maps, studies and other data identified in §
151.22 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries.
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area.
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision and submitted to FEMA. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources
will review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal
should be mailed to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources at the address
provided on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online letter of map
change website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the County Board of Commissioners
and may be submitted to FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of Morgan County and the
Towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon have been modified by annexation or the
community has assumed authority over an area, or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that the Morgan County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map accurately represents Morgan County and the towns of Bethany,
Brooklyn, and Paragon boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a
map of Morgan County and the towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon suitable
for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for
which Morgan County and the towns of Bethany, Brooklyn, and Paragon have
assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.45 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County
Circuit Court.
   (B)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (C)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (D)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the Board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
151.20; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (E)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
151.60(A), (C)(1), or (D) may be granted.
   (F)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
151.60(A), (C)(1), or (D) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (G)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §§
151.60 through
151.64 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (H)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (J)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (K)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (L)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (M)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.60 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (riverine). Located within SFHAs established in §
151.22 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance
of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 I.A.C. § 10)
may apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (1)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
151.22, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction in a
floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (See I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 I.A.C. § 10).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this subchapter.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for
a general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (4)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a conditional letter of map revision and meeting
requirements of §
151.44(A). A conditional letter of map revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure
and such development should not be permitted.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation
of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined
by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that
under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (6)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county and the towns shall submit the data and request that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per
mapping standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/ regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.61 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   New primary buildings are not allowed to be constructed in SFHAs and known
flood prone areas. For all other development, the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure, and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG
(three feet above the base flood elevation).
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG (three feet above
the base flood elevation).
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser.
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (L)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of one to one) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
   (M)   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor, accessory structures, and open-sided shelters.
   (N)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazard waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.62 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the requirements of §
151.61, all structures to be located in the SFHA (except for new primary
buildings, which are not allowed in SFHAs) shall be protected from flood damage
below the FPG (three feet above the base flood elevation). This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost).
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community's
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §
151.60 and applicable general standards described in §
151.61.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG (three feet above the base flood elevation). Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of §
151.62(D)(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
151.62(D)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         a.   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin l. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each
opening, whichever is higher.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            4.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
            5.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
            6.   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
            7.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
            8.   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of §
151.61. Periodic inspections will be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator
to ensure compliance. The affidavit shall be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder.
            9.   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with
the structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below
the lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on a fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical.
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG (three feet above the base flood elevation).
         (f)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
         (g)   The county will have the right to review all (LOMR-F). The
applicant is responsible for any and all review fees.
      (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stern wall
foundation ( also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stern-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stern wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab- on-stern-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled
with compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor
slab. No flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in §
151.60 and applicable general standards described in §
151.61.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of §
151.62(D)(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
151.62(D)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin I. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each
opening, whichever is higher.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            4.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
            5.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
            6.   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
            7.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
            8.   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of §
151.61. Periodic inspections will be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator
to ensure compliance. The affidavit shall be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder.
            9.   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with
the structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below
the lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      (4)   A non-residential structure may be constructed on fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical.
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG (three feet above the base flood elevation).
         (f)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
         (g)    The county will have the right to review all LOMR-F. The
applicant is responsible for any and all review fees.
      (5)   A non-residential structure may be flood proofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)   A non-residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG (three feet above the base
flood elevation).
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of §
151.61. Periodic inspections will be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator
to ensure compliance. The affidavit shall be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder.
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (E)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
151.62(B)(3).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less.
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage.
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (8)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
151.62(C)(5).
      (9)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (G)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG; and
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a nonresidential structure as required in §
151.62 (C).
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.63 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located aud constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the
lesser.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (G)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.64 STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPO (three feet above the base flood
elevation) at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the FPO (three feet above the
base flood elevation) shall be provided to all critical facilities to the
extent possible.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
§ 151.65 STANDARDS FOR THE FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD AREAS (FEHA).
   In all FEHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   New primary buildings are not allowed to be constructed in FEHAs;
   (B)   Improvements to existing structures, and any associated fill as needed
to comply with elevation requirements in the SFHA shall not decrease the
distance between the existing structures and the top of bank and must comply
with all §§
151.61(L),
151.62(B)(4),
151.62(C)(4);
   (C)   Development shall not increase the potential for fluvial erosion
damage on the property or on neighboring properties;
   (D)   Development shall not increase the potential of material being swept
onto other lands or into stream and causing damage to other properties from
fluvial erosion;
   (E)   Development shall not cause an undue burden on public services and
facilities including roads, bridges, culverts and emergency service providers
during and after fluvial erosion events.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-3-2024)
CHAPTER 152: REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATS
Section
   
152.01   Requirements for plat approval and recordation
   
152.02   Application of chapter
   
152.03   Conflict
   
152.04   Recordation process
§ 152.01 REQUIREMENTS FOR PLAT APPROVAL AND RECORDATION.
   No subdivision plat shall be approved by the Morgan County Plan Commission,
Mooresville Town Board, Martinsville Plan Commission or other competent
authority nor shall such plat be accepted for recordation by the County
Recorder if it does not fulfill the following requirements:
   (A)   An original drawing shall be prepared for all such subdivision plats.
   (B)   After approval by the County Plan Commission and reviewed by the
County Surveyor the original plat will be delivered to the County Auditor for
transfer to the County Recorder for recordation. The County Recorder will have
a fixed line projection Mylar made and this copy will be retained by the County
Recorder. The original will be returned once this procedure is completed. The
same procedure applies to re-recorded, amended, corrective plats and includes
planned unit development plats, condominiums and similar developments.
   (C)   A fee of $25 in addition to the cost of recording will be charged for
this service.
   (D)   No blueprint copy of any such plat shall be accepted by the County
Recorder’s office.
   (E)   The original shall be drawn with permanent ink.
   (F)   The plat shall be drawn on a scale no smaller than 100 feet to one
inch.
   (G)   The original shall be presented to the Recorder on sheets not to
exceed 24 inches by 36 inches and no reduction will be accepted.
   (H)   All signatures must have the printed or typed names beneath the
signatures.
   (I)   Plat must be notarized.
   (J)   All other requirements for recording a plat shall be met before the
plat can be recorded.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to recording of plats, condominiums, planned unit
developments and other similar documents approved by other plan commissions or
other agencies with competent authority.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 152.03 CONFLICT.
   Any ordinances in conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
amended in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 152.04 RECORDATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Prior to any recordation as set forth in this chapter, all fees
assessed and required to be paid to the County Plan Commission, or the planning
commission of competent jurisdiction, shall have been paid.
   (B)   The County Plan Commission’s, or the Planning Commission of competent
jurisdiction, stamp or seal shall be on the Mylar original if applicable.
   (C)   This chapter shall be effective on and after passage.
   (D)   The County Plan Commission, County Auditor and County Surveyor shall
receive a copy of the recorded plat from the Recorder following recordation.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-7-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   MISCELLANEOUS
         
II.   REZONING
         
III.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: MISCELLANEOUS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
7-2-3 8-21-  Incorporates the Town of Monrovia
      1995
-     9-21-  Dissolves the Town of Lake Hart
      1998
7-1-5 9-21-  Real property of Lake Hart transferred to Morgan County
      1998
7-1-6 6-6-   Authorizes purchase of real estate
      2005
7-1-7 8-4-   Authorizes Board of Commissioners to purchase real estate located in
      2008   the City of Martinsville
6-1-  12-21- Vacates a portion of Water Street
13    2009
6-1-  10-1-  Vacating an alley in Jacob Surber’s addition, Town of Eminence, Adams
13.1  2012   Township
6-1-  12-27- Vacating a portion of Main Street, Mill Stret, Sycamore Street and
13.2  2012   certain alleyways in the Town of Waverly, Harrison Township
6-1-  2-15-  Vacating a portion of Main Street and certain alleyways in the Town of
13.3  2013   Waverly, Harrison Township
6-1-  6-17-  Vacating an alley in Centerton
13.4  2013
7-1-8 8-5-   Authorizes the purchase of real estate
      2013
7-1-9 11-4-  Authorizes the purchase of real estate
      2013
6-1-  12-16- Vacating a portion of an alley in the City of Martinville
13.5  2013
2014- 9-2-   Authorizes the purchase of real estate
2     2014
2014- 10-6-  Vacating a portion of Huggin Hollow Road
6     2014
2015- 3-6-   Vacating a public alleyway starting at Market Street
1     2015
2015- 11-2-  Vacating a portion of an alleyway off Walters Road and S.R. 42
9     2015
2015- 11-2-  Authorizes the purchase of real estate
10    2015
2016- 6-6-   Vacating a portion of a roadway at Berean Road
3     2016
2018- 12-28- Vacating a portion of Burton Lane
18    2018
2021- 2-1-   Authorizes the purchase of real estate
3     2021
2021- 3-1-   Authorizes the purchase of real estate
4     2021
2021- 11-15- Vacating easements within the R.R. Kinton Subdivision
14    2021
2022- 7-5-   Vacating easements within the R.R. Kinton Subdivision
11    2022
2023- 11-6-  Vacating easements within the R.R. Kinton Subdivision
20    2023
2024- 3-4-   Authorizes purchase of land.
5     2024
2024- 9-16-  Vacating roadway commonly known as West Birch Lane, Ashland Township.
16    2024
            
 
TABLE II: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
7-3-10-40 7-10-2006   Rezones land from Residential to I-3
7-3-10.21 3-7-2011    Rezones land to B-3 to R-1
7-3-10.26 3-19-2012   Rezones land from Agricultural to Industrial 2
7-3-10-28 3-19-2012   Rezones land from Agricultural to Business 3
7-3-10-29 3-19-2012   Rezones land from Agricultural to Industrial 2
7-3-10-30 4-16-2012   Rezones land from Agricultural to Business 3
7-3-10-31 4-16-2012   Rezones land from Residential 4 to Industrial 2
7-3-10-32 4-16-2012   Rezones land from Agricultural to Residential 1
7-3-10-33 11-5-2012   Rezones land from B-3 to R-3
7-3-10-35 2-15-2013   Rezones land from B-1 to B-3
7-3-10-36 5-20-2013   Rezones land from AG to R-1
7-3-10-37 1-21-2014   Rezones land from AG to I-3
7-3-10-38 12-30-2013  Rezones land from AG to OR
7-3-10-39 4-21-2014   Rezones land from Agricultural to I-3
2014 -    4-21-2014   Rezones land from R-4 to I-3
7-3-10.41 4-21-2014   Rezones land from Agricultural to B-3
7-3-10.43 2-2-2015    Rezones land from R-4 to B-3
7-3-10.44 3-16-2015   Rezones land from Agricultural to R-1
7-3-10.45 9-21-2015   Rezones land from PUD to R-1
7-3-10.46 9-21-2015   Rezones land from PUD to R-1
7-3-10.47 9-21-2015   Rezones land from PUD to R-1
7-3-10.48 9-21-2015   Rezones land from PUD to R-1
7-3-10.49 12-7-2015   Rezones Lot 1 from B- 3 to I-2 and Lot 2 from R-2 to I-2
2022-12   8-15-2022   Rezones land from AG to R-1
2022-15   9-6-2022    Rezones land from AG to I-1
2022-16   10-17-2022  Rezones land from AG to R-1
2022-18   11-21-2022  Rezones land from AG to R-1
2023-2    1-17-2023   Rezones land from AG to RR
2023-3    1-17-2023   Rezones land from AG to R-1
2023-7    3-20-2023   Rezones land from R-1 to R-2
2023-8    3-20-2023   Rezones land from AG to R-1
2023-15   6-20-2023   Rezones land from B-2 to R-1
2023-16   6-20-2023   Rezones land from AG to RR
2023-21   10-16-2023  Rezones land from AG to B-1
2023-28   12-18-2023  Rezones land from AG to R-1
2023-29   12-18-2023  Rezones land from AG to R-1
2024-9    5-6-2024    Rezones land from AG to R-1
2024-15   9-16-2024   Rezones land to R-1
2024-25   11-4-2024   Rezones land from AG to R-1
2024-28   12-16-2024  Rezones land from AG to B-1
                     
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
9-1-1    12-17-2001  Charter Communications VI, LLC
9-1-2    1-5-2004    Confirms renewal and extension of a cable television
                     franchise agreement
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Reference Code Section
I.C. Reference        Code Section
1-1-1-5               10.04
1-1-1-7               10.12
1-1-1-8               10.06
1-1-4-5               10.05
1-1-5-1               10.11
1-1-6-1               10.08
3-9                   35.18
3-9-4-17              35.18
4-15-2-36             34.01
4-21.5-1-9            112.001
4-21.5-3 et seq.      97.05;
                      113.20
4-21.5-3-1 et seq.    97.05;
                      113.20
5-2-11-1              33.03
5-13-9-5.7(a)         30.37
5-13-9-5.7(b)         30.37
5-14-1.5              34.25
5-14-3-3              35.47
5-14-3-8(d)           35.44
5-14-3-8.3            35.45
5-22                  30.04
5-22-8-2              30.04
5-22-8-3              30.04
5-22-15-16            30.04
5-22-20-2             30.04
5-22-20-9             30.04
6-1.1                 35.60
6-1.1-2-9-9           33.02
6-1.1-3-11            35.61
6-1.1-10-44(g)        30.36
6-1.1-12-26.2 et seq. 35.50
6-1.1-12-37           35.19;
                      35.62
6-1.1-12-42           35.62
6-1.1-12.5-4          50.02
6-1.1-20.9            35.19;
                      35.60
6-1.1-20.9-1          35.60
6-1.1-22-8.1(b)(9)    35.19
6-1.1-22.5-12(d)      35.19
6-1.1-29-1            33.02
6-1.1-29-9            33.02
6-2.5                 35.64
6-3.5-4-13            35.63
6-3.5-5-1             35.63
6-3.5-5-4             35.63
6-3.5-5-15            35.63
6-3.5-7               35.62
6-3.5-7-5(b)          35.62
6-3.5-7-5(c)          35.62
6-3.5-7-5(p)          35.62
6-3.5-7-5(q)          35.62
6-3.5-7-12b(c)        35.62
6-3.5-7-13.1          35.62
6-3.5-7-26            35.62
6-3.5-7-26(c)(3)(b)   35.62
6-3.6-9-17            35.10
6-9-8-3               33.09
6-9-18-5              33.09
6-9-18-6              33.09
7.1-1-3-20            111.02
9-13-2-1              94.21
9-13-2-60(a)(2)       72.01
9-13-2-60(a)(3)       72.01
9-21-1-3(a)(14)       71.03
9-21-1-3.3(a)         71.03
9-21-9                71.03
9-22-1 et seq.        94.22
9-25                  72.04
9-25 et seq.          72.04
10-4                  34.21
10-4-1                34.25
10-4-1-10(b)          34.21
10-5-3-1              30.06
                      34.21;
10-14-3               34.26;
                      34.28;
                      34.31
10-14-3-12            31.15
                      34.21;
                      34.24;
10-14-3-17            34.25;
                      34.26;
                      34.28;
                      34.31
10-14-3-22            34.25;
                      34.31
10-14-3-25            35.13
10-14-35              34.36
10-16-7-9             34.23
10-16-7-10            34.23
10-17-10 et seq       30.06
11-8-8-21             35.43
11-12-5-3(a)(4)       35.46
13-7-37-12            34.25
13-11-2-42            51.03
13-11-2-205           51.03
13-21-3-2             51.03
14-16-1 et seq.       72.03
14-28-1               151.60
14-34                 52.01
16-1-3-28             31.02
16-18-2-114.8         31.15
16-20-1               150.16;
                      150.18
16-20-1-1 et seq.     51.03
16-20-1-4             31.02
16-20-1-17            31.02
16-20-1-25(c)         112.075
16-20-1-27            31.02
16-20-2-16            113.02
16-2-5.5              31.16
16-20-8-5             112.054
16-41-9               51.06
                      35.49,
16-41-22              93.04,
                      Ch. 93, App. A
16-42-1-6             112.015
16-42-1-13            112.053
16-42-5-0.5           31.02
16-42-5-23            112.053
16-42-5-28            112.075
18-1-1.5-7            31.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.      92.02
22-9.5-2-8            92.02
22-9.5-2-9            92.02
22-9.5-2-11           92.02
22-9.5-2-13           92.02
22-9.5-3              92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.      92.09
22-9.5-5              92.02
22-9.5-5-1            92.03
22-9.5-5-1 et seq.    92.01
22-9.5-6              92.02;
                      92.10
22-11-14-2            94.03
22-11-14-3.5          94.03
24-1-1-4              30.07
27-1-15.6-6(d)        35.47
27-7-3-2              35.47
27-7-3-6              35.47
31-25-3-1 et seq.     33.05
31-37-1-2             33.05
32-2-7-10             35.37
32-29-7-3             35.42
32-29-7-3(b)          35.42
32-30-6-6             94.20,
                      94.21
32-30-6-9             94.22
32-30-6-11            94.22
33-37                 37.04
33-37-4               37.04
33-37-4-2             51.06
33-37-5               35.11 ,
                      51.06
33-40-7               33.05
33-40-7-4             33.05
33-40-7-5             33.05
33-40-7-6             37.04
33-40-7-9             33.05
34-4-30.1             35.02
34-47-3               30.99
35-31.5-2-86          30.21
35-31.5-2-185         30.21
35-33-13              36.01
35-41-1-6             33.05
35-47-1-5             30.21
35-47-8-1             30.21
35-47-8-2             30.21
35-47-8-3             30.21
35-48-1-9             51.03
35-48-1-17            51.03
36-1-2-10             94.22
36-1-3-8(a)(10)       10.99 ;
                      51.06
36-1-4-11             151.01
36-1-6 et seq.        94.22
36-1-8-5              35.10
36-1-8-5.1            35.10
36-2-2                34.21
36-2-2-8              34.29
36-2-5-3(a)           34.25
36-2-7-10(f)          35.47
36-2-9-18(e)          35.41
36-7-4-405            95.05
36-7-10.1-3(a)        94.22
36-7-12-4             33.06
36-7-12-7             33.06
36-7-23               35.63
36-8-11               32.06;
                      32.07
36-8-11-18            32.06
36-8-14               35.26
36-8-16.7-29          34.02
36-9-14               35.16
36-9-14-2             35.16
36-9-14.5             35.21
36-9-23-1 et seq.     52.01
36-9-23-4             53.01
36-9-27               52.01,
                      52.02
36-9-27-73            35.40
36-9-27.4 et seq.     35.40
37-7-12-7             33.06
45-14-1.5-5(d)        34.29
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date   Code Section
         Passed
-        - -    91.01;
                91.04
7-2-1    2-15-  32.01
         1822
5-1-1    12-6-  150.01;
         1960   150.99
4-3-2.1  6-3-   110.01;
         1974   110.99
4-3-2    12-30- 110.02
         1974
1-4-3    1-19-  30.01
         1976
4-1-2    7-2-   31.01
         1979
1-4-1.2  11-5-  34.01
         1979
-        8-3-   50.01
         1981
1-2-2    8-16-  35.35
         1982
1-4-7.1  9-20-  33.25
         1982
7-1-2    6-18-  30.20
         1984
6-3-2    7-2-   110.03;
         1984   110.99
1-2-1    6-3-   33.02
         1985
1-3-1    6-3-   33.01
         1985
1-1-2    11-4-  35.01
         1985
1-6-1    6-9-   32.06
         1986
1-4-7.2  10-6-  36.01
         1986
1-4-7    10-20- 33.26
         1986
1-2-4    8-17-  38.01
         1987
1-2-5    2-6-   38.01
         1989
1-2-6    12-4-  38.01
         1989
1-5-1    1-29-  32.03
         1990
1-4-6    2-5-   35.37
         1990
1-4-5.1  3-5-   35.02
         1990
         9-16-  91.01—
4-2-1    1991   91.11;
                91.99
1-1-3    12-23- 38.01
         1991
6-2-2    2-17-  95.01—
         1992   95.07
1-2-7    7-6-   35.38
         1992
1-2-8    3-1-   35.03
         1993
         9-20-  51.01—
4-3-1.1  1993   51.07;
                51.99
1-3-2    11-15- 33.03
         1993
1-6-2    6-6-   32.07
         1994
6-3-5    6-6-   96.01;
         1994   96.99
7-2-2    8-21-  32.02
         1995
7-2-3    8-21-  TSO I
         1995
1-1-1.1  12-4-  38.01
         1995
1-2-9    12-18- 34.02
         1995
4-3-1.2  1-2-   30.02
         1996
1-4-4    12-16- 30.03
         1996
-        9-21-  TSO I
         1998
1-3-4    9-21-  30.04
         1998
7-1-5    9-21-  TSO I
         1998
1-5-4    10-5-  38.01
         1998
1-2-11   10-4-  30.05
         1999
1-2-10   10-18- 35.04
         1999
1-4-7.5  5-1-   35.05
         2000
1-5-5    10-2-  38.01
         2000
1-2-13   10-16- 35.07
         2000
1-4-1    2-5-   34.03
         2001
1-4-10   2-5-   92.01—
         2001   92.10
         3-19-  34.20—
1-4-1.3  2001   34.37;
                34.99
1-2-14   6-18-  30.06
         2001
-        11-19- 33.27
         2001
1-3-5    11-19- 33.05
         2001
1-4-2    11-19- 31.01
         2001
1-1-4    12-3-  30.21;
         2001   30.99
9-1-1    12-17- TSO III
         2001
1-4-15   12-26- 30.07;
         2001   30.99
1-4-1.1  12-26- 34.03
         2001
1-2-10   4-1-   35.39
         2002
1-3-6    8-5-   33.06
         2002
1-4-1.1  9-16-  34.03
         2002
1-4-7.6  10-7-  33.28
         2002
1-2-18   12-30- 35.10
         2002
1-2-19   12-30- 35.61
         2002
1-4-16   1-6-   35.40
         2003
         3-17-  90.01—
1-4-7.7  2003   90.05;
                90.99
1-1-5    4-7-   38.01
         2003
1-4-14.2 6-16-  35.12
         2003
         6-16-  94.02—
3-1-1.1  2003   94.06;
                94.99
1-5-5.2  10-20- 38.01
         2003
1-4-17   11-18- 52.01—
         2003   52.10
1-4-5.3  12-15- 35.11
         2003
1-1-5.1  12-29- 38.01
         2003
9-1-2    1-5-   TSO III
         2004
1-2-8b   3-1-   35.44
         2004
1-4-7.4  3-1-   36.02
         2004
1-2-20.1 3-15-  35.62
         2004
1-2-21   3-15-  35.63
         2004
1-4-1.4  4-5-   35.13
         2004
1-4-9.1  4-10-  30.22;
         2004   30.99
1-2-20.2 6-7-   35.62
         2004
10-1-1.1 7-19-  52.03
         2004
         8-16-  111.01—
4-2-3    2004   111.10;
                111.99
6-3-5.1  2-22-  96.01
         2005
1-4-19   3-7-   37.01—
         2005   37.04
1-4-20   3-21-  35.36
         2005
7-1-6    6-6-   TSO I
         2005
7-3-     4-4-   96.15—
11    2005   96.18
1-5-5.3  7-5-   33.08
         2005
1-2-22   9-19-  35.41
         2005
         10-17- 150.15—
4-2-4    2005   150.18;
                150.99
1-2-23   12-5-  35.42
         2005
1-4-21   12-5-  30.08
         2005
         12-5-  52.25—
10-1-1.2 2005   52.37;
                52.99
1-2-20.3 12-19- 35.62
         2005
7-3-10-  7-10-  TSO II
40       2006
1-7-1    8-21-  34.04
         2006
1-2-11.1 2-19-  30.05
         2007
1-4-19.1 6-4-   37.03
         2007
7-4-1    7-2-   53.01
         2007
7-4-2    7-2-   53.02
         2007
1-2-20.4 7-24-  35.60
         2007
1-2-20.5 7-24-  35.60
         2007
1-2-20.6 7-24-  35.60
         2007
1-4-7.8  8-20-  35.43
         2007
10-1-2   8-31-  35.14
         2007
6-3-5.2  1-7-   96.01
         2008
10-1-1.3 3-4-   52.25
         2008
1-2-8.1  5-19-  35.45
         2008
1-1-6    6-2-   38.01
         2008
1-2-8c   7-4-   35.44
         2008
1-2-26   7-7-   35.15
         2008
1-2-25   7-7-   35.16
         2008
7-1-7    8-4-   TSO I
         2008
1-2-8b   8-29-  35.44
         2008
1-1-7    9-15-  33.29
         2008
10-1-3   12-29- 35.17
         2008
2009-04  2-17-  94.01
         2009
2009-06  3-16-  34.05
         2009
2009-07  4-20-  94.03
         2009
2009-08  5-4-   38.01
         2009
1-2-23.1 7-20-  35.42
         2009
2009-11  7-20-  30.07
         2009
6-1-13   12-21- TSO I
         2009
1-2-29.1 7-6-   35.18
         2010
4-1-7    8-16-  130.01;
         2010   130.99
1-2-30   9-3-   35.64
         2010
1-3-10   10-4-  33.09
         2010
1-2-20.7 12-6-  30.35
         2010
1-2-20.8 2-7-   30.36
         2011
7-3-     3-7-   TSO II
10.21    2011
7-3-11.1 3-21-  96.18
         2011
1-2-31   4-4-   35.46
         2011
1-2-21.1 5-2-   35.63
         2011
1-2-31.1 5-16-  35.46
         2011
         8-1-   113.01—
4-1-3.1  2011   113.23;
                113.99
1-2-30.1 11-7-  35.64
         2011
1-4-22   12-19- 35.19
         2011
1-4-18.2 12-27- 31.02
         2011
1-5-2.2  12-27- 32.04
         2011
1-5-3.1  12-27- 32.05
         2011
1-2-32   2-6-   35.20
         2012
1-2-11.2 2-20-  30.05
         2012
6-3-5.3  3-1-   96.01
         2012
7-3-     3-19-  TSO II
10.26    2012
7-3-10-  3-19-  TSO II
28       2012
7-3-10-  3-19-  TSO II
29       2012
7-3-11.2 8-6-   96.17
         2012
         4-2-   53.15—
4-3-3.2  2012   53.30;
                53.99
7-3-10-  4-16-  TSO II
30       2012
7-3-10-  4-16-  TSO II
31       2012
7-3-10-  4-16-  TSO II
32       2012
1-2-33   7-2-   35.21
         2012
6-1-13.1 10-1-  TSO I
         2012
7-3-10-  11-5-  TSO II
33       2012
1-2-14.1 12-3-  30.06
         2012
2012-6-  12-17- 72.01—
1-15     2012   72.04,
                72.99
6-1-13.2 12-27- TSO I
         2012
6-1-13.3 2-15-  TSO I
         2013
7-3-10-  2-15-  TSO II
35       2013
1-4-23   5-20-  30.10
         2013
7-3-10-  5-20-  TSO II
36       2013
1-2-21.2 6-12-  35.63
         2013
6-1-13.4 6-17-  TSO I
         2013
7-1-8    8-5-   TSO I
         2013
         11-4-  97.01—
4-1-9    2013   97.09;
                97.99
7-1-9    11-4-  TSO I
         2013
1-4-18.3 11-18- 31.02
         2013
1-4-24   11-18- 30.09
         2013
1-4-34   11-18- 35.22
         2013
6-1-13.5 12-16- TSO I
         2013
1-1-4.1  12-30- 30.21;
         2013   30.99
7-3-10-  12-30- TSO II
38       2013
7-3-10-  1-21-  TSO II
37       2014
7-3-10-  4-21-  TSO II
39       2014
2014 -   4-21-  TSO II
         2014
7-3-     4-21-  TSO II
10.41    2014
2014-1   8-29-  Adopting Ordinance
         2014
2014-2   9-2-   TSO I
         2014
2014-6   10-6-  TSO I
         2014
7-3-     2-2-   TSO II
10.43    2015
2015-1   3-6-   TSO I
         2015
7-3-     3-16-  TSO II
10.44    2015
7-3-     9-21-  TSO II
10.45    2015
7-3-     9-21-  TSO II
10.46    2015
7-3-     9-21-  TSO II
10.47    2015
7-3-     9-21-  TSO II
10.48    2015
2015-9   11-2-  TSO I
         2015
2015-10  11-2-  TSO I
         2015
7-3-     12-7-  TSO II
10.49    2015
2016-1   2-5-   35.23
         2016
2016-3   6-6-   TSO I
         2016
2016-4   6-20-  Adopting Ordinance
         2016
2016-6   8-15-  35.10
         2016
                112.001;
                112.015—
                112.022;
                112.035—
2016-8   11-7-  112.038;
         2016   112.050—
                112.057;
                112.070—
                112.075;
                112.090
2016-9   11-21- 30.45—
         2016   30.55
2016-10  11-21- 30.65—
         2016   30.68
2017-3   6-5-   34.03
         2017
2017-4   6-30-  38.01
         2017
2017-5   6-30-  34.03
         2017
2017-6   7-17-  38.01
         2017
2017-8   8-7-   35.47
         2017
2017-9   8-7-   152.01—
         2017   152.04
2017-11  10-2-  Adopting Ordinance
         2017
2017-12  11-20- 33.10
         2017
2018-4   7-16-  50.02
         2018
2018-5   8-20-  96.17
         2018
2018-6   8-31-  30.07
         2018
2018-8   10-15- 33.11
         2018
2018-10  10-15- 35.24
         2018
2018-11  11-5-  38.01
         2018
2018-14  11-5-  Adopting Ordinance
         2018
2018-16  12-3-  33.11
         18
2018-17  12-17- 34.25
         2018
2018-18  12-28- TSO I
         2018
2019-1   2-4-   30.11
         2019
2019-4   6-3-   Repeals 33.07
         2019
2019-5   6-17-  35.41
         2019
2019-9   10-21- 110.03
         2019
2020-3   7-6-   38.01
         2020
                92.02,
         7-6-   92.03,
2020-4   2020   92.04,
                92.08,
                92.09
2020-5   7-20-  35.10
         2020
2020-7   10-5-  34.03
         2020
         11-2-  71.01—
2020-8   2020   71.06,
                71.99
2020-9   11-4-  38.01
         2020
2020-10  11-4-  38.01
         2020
2020-11  12-22- 38.01
         2020
                35.49,
         10-5-  93.01—
2020-11b 2020   93.05,
                93.99,
                Ch. 93, App. A
2021-2   1-20-  Repeals 33.04
         2021
2021-3   2-1-   TSO I
         2021
2021-4   3-1-   TSO I
         2021
2021-6   4-5-   38.01
         2021
2021-7   5-3-   35.25
         2021
2021-8   6-7-   Adopting Ordinance
         2021
2021-9   8-2-   38.01
         2021
         10-18- 94.20—
2021-10  2021   94.22,
                94.99
2021-11  11-1-  38.01
         2021
                51.01,
2021-12  11-1-  51.03,
         2021   51.06,
                51.99
2021-14  11-15- TSO I
         2021
2021-15  12-21- 35.50
         2021
2021-16  12-29- 38.01
         2021
2021-17  12-29- 38.01
         2021
2021-18  12-29- 32.04,
         2021   32.05
2021-19  12-29- 32.03                                                                                                                                                                                                
         2021
2022-1   2-7-   35.10
         2022
2022-2   2-7-   38.01
         2022
2022-3   2-7-   38.01
         2022
2022-5   2-21-  38.01
         2022
2022-6   2-21-  38.01
         2022
2022-7   3-7-   31.15—
         2022   31.21
2022-10  7-5-   35.48
         2022
2022-11  7-5-   TSO I
         2022
2022-12  8-15-  TSO II
         2022
2022-15  9-6-   TSO II
         2022
2022-16  10-17- TSO II
         2022
2022-18  11-21- TSO II
         2022
2022-20  12-30- 30.12
         2022
2023-2   1-17-  TSO II
         2023
2023-3   1-17-  TSO II
         2023
2023-7   3-20-  TSO II
         2023
2023-8   3-20-  TSO II
         2023
2023-9   4-3-   35.21
         2022
2023-10  4-17-  35.25
         2023
2023-11  4-17-  35.51
         2023
2023-12  5-1-   35.48
         2023
2023-13  5-3-   30.37
         2023
2023-15  6-20-  TSO II
         2023
2023-16  6-20-  TSO II
         2023
2023-17  7-17-  30.10
         2023
2023-20  11-6-  TSO I
         2023
2023-21  10-16- TSO II
         2023
2023-23  10-16- 33.09
         2023
2023-25  11-6-  30.06
         2023
2023-26  12-4-  38.01
         2023
2023-28  12-18- TSO II
         2023
2023-29  12-18- TSO II
         2023
                151.01—
                151.04,
                151.20—
2024-3   4-3-   151.30,
         2024   151.40—
                151.45,
                151.60—
                151.65
2024-4   3-4-   35.26
         2024
2025-5   3-4-   TSO I
         2024
2024-6   5-6-   30.04
         2024
2024-7   5-6-   35.27
         2024
2024-9   5-6-   TSO II
         2024
2024-15  9-16-  TSO II
         2024
2024-16  9-16-  TSO I
         2024
2024-18  10-21- 52.01—
         2024   52.10
2024-21  11-4-  33.12
         2024
2024-23  11-4-  35.28,
         2024   35.29
2024-25  11-4-  TSO II
         2024
2024-26  11-18- 30.08,
         2024   30.99
2024-28  12-16- TSO II
         2024
2024-29  12-16- 35.27
         2024
               
 
