TOWN OF MORRISTOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-17, passed 8-23-2023; and
State law update current through 2003 ALS #4
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 1993-1
   AN ORDINANCE of the Town of Morristown, Indiana adopting a Code of
Ordinances designated as the “Code of Morristown” containing the Ordinances.
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Morristown, as follows:
   Section 1. Within the meaning of Indiana Code 36-1-5, the Town Council of
the Town of Morristown hereby adopts a certain Code of Ordinances, with the
title thereon of “Town of Morristown, Indiana Code of Ordinances”, as compiled
by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio and modified
by the Town as the same exists at the time of the adoption of this Ordinance;
and the same shall be designated as the “Code of Morristown”, and shall contain
all ordinances of the Town Council of the Town of Morristown and its
predecessors and successors, as the legislative body of the Town of Morristown,
Indiana.
   Section 2. That two copies of the Code of Morristown are on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Morristown in the Town Hall of
Morristown, Indiana for public inspection; and the Code of Morristown is
incorporated herein by reference.
   Section 3. That this ordinance shall be effective upon its passage, except
that any provision in the Code of Morristown prescribing a penalty or
forfeiture or a violation shall take effect two weeks after the adoption of
this ordinance.
   Section 4. That the Town Council of the Town of Morristown hereby publishes
this Ordinance and the Code of Morristown in a book or pamphlet form; and no
other publication is required, under Indiana Code 36-4-6-14(c).
   The above Ordinance was passed on first reading at the regular meeting of
the Board of Town Trustees on February 24, 1993. Ayes  3 , Noes      .
                                          Robert C. Reed /s/  
                                          President of Town Council
ATTEST:
Donald L. Roberts /s/ 
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   The foregoing ordinance was passed upon final reading, at the regular
meeting of the Board of Town Trustees, on February 24, 1993, after unanimous
agreement for suspension of the requirement preventing final passage of
Ordinance at meeting in which it was introduced. Ayes  3  Noes     .
                                          Robert C. Reed /s/  
                                          President of Town Council
ATTEST:
Donald L. Roberts /s/ 
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   The above Ordinance was presented by me to the President of the Town Board
this  24th  day of February, 1993.
                                          Donald L. Roberts /s/
                                          Town Clerk-Treasurer
   I have examined and do hereby approve the above ordinance, this  24th  day
of February, 1993.
                                          Robert C. Reed /s/  
                                          President of Town Council
ATTEST:
Donald L. Roberts /s/
ORDINANCE NO. 1998-1
   AN ORDINANCE of the Town Council of the Town of Morristown, Indiana,
enacting and adopting a supplement to the Code for the Town of Morristown.
   WHEREAS, a supplement to the Code of Morristown has been prepared containing
supplemental ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement or original adoption of the Code of Morristown; and
   WHEREAS, the Morristown Town Council desires to accept this supplement in
accordance with the change of laws of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the operation of the Town of
Morristown and for the immediate preservation of public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the community that this ordinance shall take effect at
an earlier date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF
MORRISTOWN, INDIANA, as follows:
   SECTION 1. That the supplement to the Code of Morristown attached hereto and
incorporated herein be and the same is hereby adopted, and each and every
provision thereof shall amend the provisions of the Code of Morristown as they
purport, as if set out in the entirety, making such amendments.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Morristown Town Council and the President of the
Town Council; and the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to insert such
supplement into the Code of Morristown kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency and shall be
effective immediately. The preceding notwithstanding, by reason of the fact
that the supplement is merely a compilation of ordinances already adopted by
the Town Council of the Town of Morristown, the individual ordinances
originally adopting the components of this supplement shall be deemed effective
as of the date thereof; and this supplement is confirmatory of the adoption of
such original ordinances.
   SECTION 4. All ordinances in conflict herewith are amended, to the extent of
such conflict or incompatibility only.
   The above Ordinance was passed on first reading at the regular meeting of
the Morristown Town Council on January 31, 1998. Ayes:  3 Noes:  0   
                              Mark E. Myers /s/   
                              President of Town Council
ATTEST:
Donald L. Roberts /s/
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   The foregoing ordinance was passed upon final reading, at the regular
meeting of the Morristown Town Council on January 31, 1998, after unanimous
agreement for suspension of the requirement preventing final passage of
Ordinance at meeting in which it was introduced. Ayes  3  Noes     .
                              Mark E. Myers /s/   
                              President of Town Council
ATTEST:
Donald L. Roberts /s/
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   The above Ordinance was presented by me to the President of the Morristown
Town Council on January 31, 1998.
                              Donald L. Roberts /s/
                              Town Clerk-Treasurer
   I have examined and do hereby approve the above ordinance, this  31st  day
of January, 1998.
      Mark E. Myers /s/   
                              President of Town Council
ATTEST:
Donald L. Roberts /s/
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OR MORRISTOWN INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
earlier date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF MORRISTOWN:
Section 1.   That the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as it set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert sub supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
the 10th day of July 2019.
ATTEST:
Larry Tracy /s/
President
Kristi Langkabel /s/
Vice President
David Benefiel /s/
Member
Ralph Henderson /s/
Ralph Hendrerson
William White /s/
William White
Donald Roberts /s/
Donald Roberts, Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
Town of Morristown
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Morristown, Indiana,
shall be designated as the Code of Morristown and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Shelby County, Indiana.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, or TOWN. The Town of Morristown,
Indiana.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYER COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender, singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof; unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anywise be effected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (IC 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 1980-10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 1985-20, passed
1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 31.10 TOWN COUNCIL.
   The legislative authority of the town shall be vested in and exercised by
the Town Council. (Ord. 1960-10, passed 5-13-60)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Town Council, see IC 36-5-2-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
35.   BUDGET; OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Establishment; President
   
30.02   Number of members; election procedure
   
30.03   Control of utilities
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings; when held
   
30.16   Special meetings
   
30.17   State Open Door Law applicable
Statutory Reference:
   Town legislative body, see IC 36-5-2-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT; PRESIDENT.
   The town shall be governed by a Town Council with the town executive being
the President of the Town Council and shall have all duties and
responsibilities pursuant to IC 36-5-2-1 et seq.
§ 30.02 NUMBER OF MEMBERS; ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The members of the Town Council of the town shall be five in number and
shall be elected by the voters at large. The Town Council will all be a
candidate at large.
(Am. Ord. 14-2012, passed 11-14-12)
Statutory reference:
   Election of members of Town Council, see IC 36-5-2-5
§ 30.03 CONTROL OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   All municipally owned utilities of the town, including but not limited
to the water and sanitary sewage utilities, shall be controlled by the Town
Council, pursuant to IC 8-1.5-3-3.
   (B)   The Council shall have the powers provided under IC 8-1.5-3-4 and
shall proceed as provided by the provisions of IC 8-1.5-3 at all relevant
times. The Council shall have the general supervisory powers over all the
utilities with the responsibility for the detailed supervision of each utility
to be vested in its Superintendent.
   (C)   In the event the provisions of IC 8-1.5-3 are amended or repealed from
time to time hereafter, the successor or amendatory provisions thereof shall be
applicable to and govern the Council in the control and operation of the
municipally owned utilities.
(Ord. 1986-11, passed 12-15-86)
Cross-references:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 50
   Water, see
Ch. 51
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS; WHEN HELD.
   The Town Council shall meet monthly. The meetings shall be held on the
second and fourth Wednesday of every month.
§ 30.16 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   A special meeting shall be called pursuant to state statute and the State
Open Door Law, IC 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
§ 30.17 STATE OPEN DOOR LAW APPLICABLE.
   All meetings shall be conducted pursuant to the applicable state statutes,
specifically the State Open Door Law, IC 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.02   Deputies and employees of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.03   Town Attorney
   
31.04   Town Marshal
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and the Clerk-Treasurer's office of the town shall be
administered pursuant to IC 36-5-6-1 et seq. The Clerk-Treasurer shall have all
powers and duties assigned and authorized pursuant to the state statutes above
described and others that may apply due to financial responsibility of that
officer.
§ 31.02 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are responsible for that
billing and collection. Those employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure. (IC 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   The town authorizes the deputies and employees to be paid at a rate
determined by the Town Council and set out in the salary ordinance.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 12-4-19)
§ 31.03 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The town shall employ a Town Attorney. The Attorney shall exercise the power
and perform the duties assigned to the Attorney by state law, by town
ordinance, or by the Town Council.
§ 31.04 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The town shall have as its chief police officer of the town, a Town
Marshal pursuant to IC 36-5-7-1 et seq. and the Marshal shall have all the
powers and authority delegated pursuant to IC 36-5-7-1 et seq.
   (B)   Deputy marshals and special deputies may be appointed pursuant to IC
36-5-7-6.
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
32.02   Cemetery Board of Trustees
   
32.03   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.04   Planning Commission
   
32.05   Safety Board
   
32.06   Police Department fees
Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.20   Authority to collect fees for extraordinary circumstances
   
32.21   Use and placement of knox box system
   
32.22   Interlocal agreement creating Fire Board and Fire and Emergency Medical
Advisory Committee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Zoning Appeals, see Volume II
Development Standards.
§ 32.02 CEMETERY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   For provisions concerning the Cemetery Board of Trustees see §§
93.10 through
93.13.
§ 32.03 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   For provisions concerning the Park Authority, see §
98.01.
§ 32.04 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   For provisions concerning the Planning Commission see Volume II Development
Standards.
§ 32.05 SAFETY BOARD.
   (A)   A Safety Board is hereby established to fulfill the obligations and
administration of the matters required under Indiana law to be conducted under
IC 36-8-3 and provisions amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The members of the Safety Board shall consist of the Town Council from
time to time without special appointment or other proceedings for selection of
the Safety Board. When a Town Council member shall be selected as a member of
the Town Council, he shall automatically become a member of the Safety Board
with the authority to proceed under IC 36-8-3 The President of the Town Council
from time to time shall also serve as Chairman of the Safety Board, without
special election for such Safety Board.
   (C)   The town shall have only one precinct and one fire district, which
shall be all territory over which the town has jurisdiction to exercise law
enforcement authority or protection.
   (D)   Whenever reference is made to a police officer, under IC 36-8-3, then
the same shall mean the marshal's department of the town. The Town Marshal
shall be deemed the Police Chief for purposes of IC 36-8-3.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 11-10-99)
§ 32.06POLICE DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   All individuals submitting a request for the production of the
following items shall be required to remit the corresponding fees associated
with each item prior to receipt of the requested item:
1. Copies of statements on cassette                          $10.00
2. Copies of accident reports and supplements                $5.00
3. Copies of incident reports                                $3.00
4. VHS copies                                                $25.00
5. DVD copies                                                $25.00
6. Copies of pictures per print (must purchase all prints    $2.50
   taken on roll)
7. Copies of pictures on CD per CD                           $10.00
8. Any other report (calls for service)                      $.10 per page
 
   (B)   These fees are to offset the time, materials and manpower expended by
the Morristown, Indiana Police Department in the review and production of items
requested.
(Ord. 07-2007, passed 8-22-07)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 AUTHORITY TO COLLECT FEES FOR EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   Subject to applicable Indiana law, the town hereby grants authority to
the Fire Department to charge fees for providing services in extraordinary
circumstances.
   (B)   EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES shall be defined as those emergency
situations not regularly occurring and to which the Fire Department would not
regularly respond in the normal course or routine of the Fire Department's
operation.
   (C)   The fee charged for responding in extraordinary circumstance shall be
consistent with the actual expense incurred by the Fire Department in
responding to the extraordinary circumstance.
   (D)   Any fee to be charged by the Fire Department shall be submitted to the
town 15 days prior to the invoice for the fee being sent to the responsible
party.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to determine that:
      (1)   An emergency does not qualify as an extraordinary circumstance,
and/or
      (2)   An invoice for services does not accurately reflect the Fire
Department's expenditures in responding to the extraordinary circumstance.
   (F)   Should the town determine that an emergency is not an extraordinary
circumstance or that the invoice does not properly reflect expenses incurred by
the Fire Department, the town shall immediately notify the Fire Department, and
the Fire Department shall not submit the invoice to the responsible party.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 7-27-11)
§ 32.21 USE AND PLACEMENT OF KNOX BOX SYSTEM.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Any property within the town that is protected by an automatic fire
alarm system and/or a fire suppression system.
      (2)   Any new or remodeled non-resident structure.
      (3)   Any multi-family structure with a common locked entrance.
   (B)   Contents. The key box shall contain:
      (1)   Keys to locked points of ingress whether on the interior or
exterior of such buildings;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical equipment rooms;
      (3)   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
      (4)   Keys to elevator controls;
      (5)   Any other devices needed for access to above locations, including
what specific location within the building they unlock.
   (C)   Installation. The Knox Box shall be approved by the Fire Chief and/or
Fire Marshall as to the location of installation and type.
(Ord. 09-2012, passed 9-12-12)
§ 32.22 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT CREATING FIRE BOARD AND FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The Town Council hereby adopts and ratifies the Interlocal Agreement between
Hanover Township, the Hanover Township Board, and the Town of Morristown to
protect the community and township, and to promote the existence of the
Morristown-Hanover Township Fire and Emergency Medical Board and the Fire and
Emergency Medical Advisory Committee.
(Res. 2005-1, passed 5-11-05)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Town elections to be conducted pursuant to state law
   
33.02   Nomination of candidates for town offices
§ 33.01 TOWN ELECTIONS TO BE CONDUCTED PURSUANT TO STATE LAW.
   All town elections shall be conducted pursuant to IC 3-10-6-1 et seq.
§ 33.02 NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES FOR TOWN OFFICES.
   All candidates for town offices, including but not limited to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and members of the Town Council, shall be nominated pursuant to
a primary election, as provided under IC 3-8-5-2. The prior method of
nomination of town offices through a convention shall no longer be conducted.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 12-12-01)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   State law relating to labor relations
   
34.02   Conflict of interest and nepotism policies adopted
   
34.03   Drug free workplace policy
Old Age and Survivors' Insurance
   
34.10   Election of coverage
   
34.11   What positions are to be covered
   
34.12   Agreement between state and federal government incorporated by
reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 STATE LAW RELATING TO LABOR RELATIONS.
   All employees of the town shall be governed by applicable state statutes
relating to labor relations and employees of municipal bodies including, if
applicable, negotiated contracts with union representatives for town employees.
In the event a contract is executed between the town and any union
representative for and on behalf of union employees of the town, the contract
is to be included and considered part of this town municipal code. The contract
will designate compensation and all benefits and work rules relating to the
employees of the Town Council unless the contract violates state law as
designated by the legislature of the state. In that event, the conflict shall
be resolved by state law controlling.
§ 34.02CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND NEPOTISM POLICIES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the town shall have a Nepotism and a Contracting with
a Unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of IC 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter "Nepotism Policy") and IC 36-1-21 (hereinafter "Contracting with a
Unit by a Relative Policy") and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The Town of Morristown Nepotism Policy is hereby established effective
July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provision of IC 36-1-20.2 and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time and making them a part hereof as if frilly set out herein. In
addition a copy of IC 36-1-20.2 Nepotism in effect on July 1 is attached to
Ordinance No. 05-2010.
   (D)   The Town of Morristown Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is
hereby established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of IC 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of the IC 36-1-21 Nepotism in effect
on July 1, is attached to Ord. 05-2010.
   (E)   The town finds that both IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
of employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implantation, compliance and
certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation and may result
in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer from the
direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
Nepotism Policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implantation, compliance and
certifications connected with the Contracting with Unit by a Relative Policy is
a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination, of an
employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the town who
fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the compliance and
with mandated certifications of the Contracting with Unit by a Relative Policy
may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of Ordinance 05-2012 in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of Ordinance 05-2012 to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of Ordinance 05-2012;
or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials. Upon the taking of any of these actions the policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21 effective July
1, 2012 are annexed hereto.
   (M)   Two copies of IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as maybe required by IC 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 05-2012, passed 7-11-12)
Statutory reference:
   Majority vote, see IC 36-4-6-11 and IC36-5-2-9.4
§ 34.03DRUG FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use
of controlled substances including but not limited to marijuana, cocaine,
heroin, amphetamines and depressants is a violation of 21 U.S.C. 812. In
addition, any employee convicted of violating such a criminal drug statute in
the workplace must notify his or her employer within five days of such
conviction.
   (B)   Adherence to this policy is a condition of employment. Violations will
result in disciplinary action up to and including dismissal. The employee may
also be required, at the employee's own expense, to participate in an approved
drug abuse or rehabilitation program. For additional information concerning the
dangers of drug abuse, available counseling services or treatment programs, the
employee should contact the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 1-26-05)
OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS' INSURANCE
§ 34.10 ELECTION OF COVERAGE.
   The Town Council hereby elects coverage under the Old Age and Survivors'
Insurance, as provided by IC 5-10-2-1 et seq.
Editor's note:
   IC 5-10-2-1 et seq. is repealed. For current state law provisions, see IC 5-
10.1. The code user should consult town administrators to ascertain current
applicable provisions in this subchapter.
§ 34.11 WHAT POSITIONS ARE TO BE COVERED.
   The following positions are designated as those which are to be covered by
the insurance referred to in §
34.10: all positions not covered by an existing retirement or pension plan,
except the elected legislative officials.
§ 34.12 AGREEMENT BETWEEN STATE AND FEDERAL GOVERNMENT INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of Title II, Sec. 218 of the
Federal Social Security Acts and amendments thereof, the agreement entered into
between the state agency with the approval of the Governor and the Social
Security Administrator is made a part of this subchapter and shall be termed an
agreement between this political subdivision and the state agency. Further, it
shall become a part of the agreement or modification of the agreement between
the state and the Social Security Administrator.
CHAPTER 35: BUDGET; OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Budgets and administration
   
35.02   Membership of town in certain organizations
   
35.03   Use of town vehicles
   
35.04   Utilities making loans from cash reserve fund
   
35.05   Sums, services, or materials rendered to town
   
35.06   Preapproved payments of claims
   
35.07   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.08   Internal control standards
   
35.09   Electronic payment on claims
§ 35.01 BUDGETS AND ADMINISTRATION.
   All budgets prepared and administration of business conducted by the town
shall be conducted in accordance with IC 36-5-3-1 et seq. for budgets and IC
36-5-4-1 et seq. for administration.
§ 35.02 MEMBERSHIP OF TOWN IN CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A) The town may maintain membership in certain organizations, to be
identified by subsequent amendments.
   (B) The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized to pay the dues and
membership fees as may be required by those organizations.
§ 35.03 USE OF TOWN VEHICLES.
   (A) For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   POLICE VEHICLES. All clearly marked police cars and unmarked cars
used exclusively by police personnel.
      (2)   TOWN UTILITY REPAIR VEHICLES.
   (B) The Town Marshal or the Marshal's designee shall assign the town's
police cars to certain officers as take home vehicles.
   (C)   Police cars assigned as take home vehicles shall not be used by police
officers for personal use (except as may occur incidentally in commuting to and
from their place of employment).
   (D)   The town may assign the town's utility repair vehicles to town
personnel as take home vehicles.
   (E)   Town utility repair vehicles assigned as take home vehicles shall be
clearly marked and shall not be used by town personnel for personal use (except
as may occur incidentally in commuting to and from their place of employment).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.04 UTILITIES MAKING LOANS FROM CASH RESERVE FUND.
   Any utility owned by the town may make loans to any other utility upon the
terms and conditions as the Town Council may determine at the time of the loan,
consistent with IC 8-1.5-3-11 and any amendment or additions thereto.
§ 35.05 SUMS, SERVICES OR MATERIALS RENDERED TO TOWN.
   (A)   Whenever an individual or entity (“payor” herein), as part of any
matter before or approval by the Morristown Town Council, or other governmental
body of the town, including but not limited to: zoning, annexation, planning
approval, building approval, or tax abatement (the “approval”) offers or agrees
to the payment or rendering of a sum of money, services, or materials to or for
the town as part of a specific project or fund, for the general purposes of the
town or another governmental entity (such as a school corporation) or otherwise
(“payment” herein) then, the payor shall sign an agreement in writing which
shall be made part of the public records of the town, to contain relevant
information on the payor and the payment. Such written agreement shall be
sufficient if it is in the following form:
      (1)   The name and address of the payor;
      (2)   The amount of the obligation of the payor to make payment to or for
the benefit of the town or other governmental entity;
      (3)   Any contingencies of such obligation;
      (4)   Significant terms and duration of the payment;
      (5)   The payor agrees that such obligation is an enforceable obligation
of the payor, and the governmental body giving the approval may maintain an
action to enforce the payment in a court of competent jurisdiction over the
subject matter in Shelby County, Indiana;
      (6)   The payor agrees that full and adequate consideration exists for
the obligation of the payor to make such payment, and that payor agrees not to
assert any defense of lack of consideration for its obligation;
      (7)    Written opinion of legal counsel for the payor satisfactory to the
governmental agency giving such approval that the obligation to make the
payment has been duly authorized and executed by payor;
      (8)   Such other matters as the governmental body giving such approval
shall require, including but not limited to, a guaranty by a parent company of
the payor;
      (9)   The consent by the payor to rescind the approval if the payment is
not fulfilled.
   (B)   The failure to include any one or more of the above matters shall not
render the obligation of the payor invalid in any manner.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 4-11-01)
§ 35.06 PREAPPROVED PAYMENTS OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts IC 36-5-4-12(a) providing that the
Clerk Treasurer may pay certain invoices and bills prior to approval of the
Town Council.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 36-5-4-12 and this section, the Clerk Treasurer may
make the following payments prior to Town Council approval:
      (1)   License or permit fees;
      (2)   Insurance premiums;
      (3)   Utility payments and connection charges;
      (4)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (5)   Lease or rental agreements;
      (6)   Payroll;
      (7)   State, federal or county taxes; and
      (8)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
   (C)   All payments made by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be supported by a fully
itemized invoice or bill and shall be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
   (F)   Applicability and effective date.
      (1)   All portions of former ordinances in conflict with this section are
hereby repealed or superseded. This section shall become in full force and
effect from and after its adoption and publication as required by law; and
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent or supersede the enforcement
of any other ordinance or law by any other county department, board or agency.
(Ord. 06-2008, passed 6-25-08; Am. Ord. 01-2020, passed 6-24-20)
§ 35.07 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem (according to value) property tax levy will be imposed
and the revenues from the levy will be retained in the Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) will not exceed:
      (1)   .0167 per $100 assessed valuation for 2013;
      (2)   .0333 per $100 assessed valuation for 2014;
      (3)   .0500 per $100 assessed valuation for 2015 and thereafter.
   (D)   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund is established until such time
as the fund is rescinded.
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Funds will
be used for any purposes allowed by law.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E), funds accumulated in the Cumulative
Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the purposes
stated in division (E), if the purpose is to protect the public health,
welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate action.
Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the Town
Council President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or
safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the
fund.
   (G)   This fund takes effect upon approval of the DLGF.
(Ord. 06-2012, passed 7-25-12)
§ 35.08 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including but not limited to the grant-writing activities and economic
development;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, gross mismanagement or uncorrected errors.
   (B)   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives
as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including, by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management and planning among others.
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government including, by way of example, filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding appropriately to a public records
request among others.
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including, by way of example, following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts' manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance's forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT among others.
   (C)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
      (3)   Control activities.
      (4)   Information and communication.
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (D)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government:
      (1)   Control environment:
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town internal control system.
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town objectives.
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals.
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment:
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances.
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives.
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities:
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
responds to risks.
         (b)   Management designs the town's information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication:
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town's
objectives.
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring:
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
   (F)   The town directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and compliance
objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability,
accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and
personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
   (G)   The town authorizes itself to review the current internal control
system of the town and adopt a policy for the future internal control system to
be effective after June 30, 2016 (although the State Board of Accounts will not
take audit exception as long as the minimum standards are adopted between July
1, 2016 and December 31, 2016) and perform an annual review, or more if
determined necessary for compliance with this section.
   (H)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, deposition, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures (so long as
they are not in conflict with their specific elected duties) and any related
policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the town now
and as modified in the future.
   (I)   The staff of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or personnel of the Clerk-Treasurer, so that the Clerk-Treasurer can
timely certify to the State Board of Accounts that the training was received
annually by the personnel as provided by law.
   (J)   President of the Town Council or the Clerk-Treasurer will develop,
maintain, and train personnel on internal control standards and policies, and
all new personnel shall receive training in a timely manner.
   (K)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (L)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation; this may result in the discipline,
including termination of the employee.
   (M)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the required certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to actions allowed by law.
   (N)   This section may be implemented by any and all of the following
actions or such others as authorized by the Council (or delegated authority):
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the offices of the town where other employee posters or
notices are read by the employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-13-16)
Statutory reference:
   Local governmental internal controls, see IC 5-11-1-27
§ 35.09 ELECTRONIC PAYMENT ON CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Town Council adopted IC 36-1-8-11.5 providing that the Clerk-
Treasurer may make payments, including pre-payments authorized under IC 36-1-8-
11, in any business transactions with vendors by any means listed in division
(B) below.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 36-1-8-11 and this section, the Clerk-Treasurer may use
any of the following means to make payment:
      (1)   Check;
      (2)   Bank draft;
      (3)   Money order;
      (4)   Electronic funds transfer; or
      (5)   Any other financial instrument authorized by the Town Council.
   (C)   All payments made by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be supported by a fully
itemized invoice or bill and shall be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent or supersede the
enforcement of any other ordinance or law by any other state or county
department, board or agency.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 4-27-22)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Approval by EPA Region V
   
50.002   Biennial review
   
50.003   Definitions
   
50.004   Administration by Town Council
   
50.005   Right of superintendent and inspector to enter any premises
   
50.006   Damaging, defacing sewerage works property
   
50.007   Accidental discharges
   
50.008   Continued failure to comply
   
50.009   Falsifying information
   
50.010   Privies, septic tanks, cesspools and the like prohibited
   
50.011   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.012   When connection to town system required
   
50.013   Special agreements
   
50.014   Liability for equipment
   
50.015   Town's right to reject waste
   
50.016   Prohibiting uses within the wellhead protection sanitary setback area
Lateral Sewers
   
50.030   Separate sewers required
   
50.031   Construction requirements
   
50.032   Use of old lateral sewers with new building
   
50.033   Elevation and location
Connections
   
50.040   Downspouts, drains and the like
   
50.041   Inspection and supervision of connection
   
50.042   Extension outside town
   
50.043   Town's right to prohibit new connections
Private Wells
   
50.050   Registration
   
50.051   Metering
   
50.052   Inspection
   
50.053   Digging
Discharges; Significant Industrial Users; Surveillance
   
50.060   Prohibition of discharge to natural outlets
   
50.061   Determining significant industrial users
   
50.062   Significant industrial user permits
   
50.063   Significant industrial user permit applications and fees
   
50.064   Surveillance of significant industrial users
   
50.065   Surveillance survey charge
   
50.066   Monitoring significant industrial users
   
50.067   Limitations on point of discharge
   
50.068   Commercial or industrial waste hauling
   
50.069   Discharges that are flammable, create obstructions, cause odors and
the like
   
50.070   Unpolluted and cooling water
   
50.071   Radioactive waste
   
50.072   Properly shredded garbage
   
50.073   Limitation on wastewater strength
   
50.074   Time schedule
   
50.075   Cease and desist order
   
50.076   Injunction
   
50.077   Termination of service
   
50.078   Administrative appeals
   
50.079   Significant noncompliance
Charges; Fees; Rates; Billing
   
50.090   Persons subject to fees and sewer charges
   
50.091   Effective date; extension to other property
   
50.092   Rate basis
   
50.093   Meter reading
   
50.094   Single meter for more than one user
   
50.095   Water obtained from other sources
   
50.096   Water not entering sewerage system
   
50.097   Billing procedure; generally
   
50.098   Billing of tenants; property owner's right to examine records
   
50.099   Town's liability for charges
   
50.100   Surcharge based on flow and concentration
   
50.101   Surcharge rates
   
50.102   Sewage charges
   
50.103   Council's authority to set and collect revenue
   
50.104   Adjustments for water used on lawns
   
50.105   Fees for new connections
   
50.106   Capacity fee
   
50.107   Due dates
   
50.108   Notification
   
50.109   Property owners not using town utilities for an extended period only
subject to certain minimum charges
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 APPROVAL BY EPA REGION V.
   Approval of this chapter by the Regional Administrator of Region V of the
Environmental Protection Agency is evidenced by the authorization received by
the town on February 27, 1981, which authorization is incorporated herein.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.002 BIENNIAL REVIEW.
   The Town Council, not less often than every two years, shall review the
wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the total coasts of
operation and maintenance of the treatment works and its approved user charge
system. The Council shall revise the charges for users or user classes to
accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance, including replacement,
of the treatment works;
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly; and
   (D)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay principal and interest on bonds
payable and other obligations of the sewage works in order to meet the
requirements of the sewage bonds ordinance of any bonds outstanding.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These include, but are not limited to, domestic, municipal,
agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation, aesthetic
enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife
and other aquatic resources or reserves and other uses, tangible or intangible,
as specified by state or federal law.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters
or industrial wastes. The quantity of dissolved oxygen, expressed in milligrams
per liter, required during stabilization of decomposable organic matter by
aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for five days
at 20° Celsius. The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in “Standard Methods”, therein and
conventionally referred to as BOD5.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil pipes, waste pipes and other drainage
pipes inside a building and conveys it to a point outside the building.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD) of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters or
industrial wastes. The measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of the
organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in “Standard Methods.”
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface or ground water runoff
in addition to sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater having or containing:
      (1)   Measurable biochemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Suspended solids;
      (3)   pH;
      (4)   Fecal coliform bacteria; or
      (5)   Additional pollutants identified or defined in the town's National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or by the state or Town
Council.
   CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS (of wastewater). The chemical, physical,
bacteriological and radiological properties, including volume, flow rate, and
to other properties that define, classify or measure the contents, quality,
quantity and strength of wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of a treatment works to fund
debt service on outstanding revenue bonds and current capital costs.
   EFFLUENT.  The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutants which are not compatible pollutants.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A non-domestic discharger that introduces pollutants into a
POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow into or enter the sewerage system or ground from
an industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the
development, recovery or processing of any natural resource carried on by any
person and further shall mean any waste from an industrial user, but not
including sanitary sewage or storm water.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewerage system directly or by way of
private sewers, building drains and building sewers connected therewith, from
the ground, through means such as but not limited to defective pipe joints,
connections or manhole walls.
   INFLOW.  Water other than waste water entering the sewerage system from
sources such as leaders, cellars, yard areas and foundation drains, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole areas, cross connections between storm and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm water, surface runoff and
street wastewater or drainage.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Town Council or Superintendent to
perform inspection duties assigned to him or her by the Council or
Superintendent.
   LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewerage system
or other place of disposal.
   NPDES PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit now or
hereafter held by the town and setting forth conditions for the discharge of
any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage discharged by residential users with a BOD5
concentration not in excess of 200 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration
not in excess of 200 mg/l.
   NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenses related directly to operating and
maintaining the sewage works, as identified in the “Uniform System of Accounts
for Wastewater Utilities” or as prescribed by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts under the general headings, Plant Operation and Maintenance, Sewer
Operation and Maintenance, Customer Accounts, Administrative and General,
Insurance and Taxes. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement. See
REPLACEMENT.
   pH.  The conventional scientific measure of the degree of acidity or
alkalinity.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants or
pollutants to a degree which renders the water unfit for beneficial uses.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the town.
   RECEIVING SEWER SYSTEM. The town sewer system.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed. REPLACEMENT is included in operation and
maintenance. See OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage such as, and having the characteristics of, domestic
sewage from dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories or institutions, free from storm and surface water and
industrial wastes.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying sewage or other liquids and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of publicly owned sewers and appurtenances used
for collection, transportation and pumping of wastewater to the wastewater
treatment plant and the wastewater treatment plant itself.
   SEWER CHARGES. The total of the user charge and the debt service charge.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally
prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle greater than ½ inch in
dimension.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters and drainage.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department, subject to the
control of the Town Council in all matters.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for sewerage services in addition to the basic sewer
charge. A SURCHARGE is assessed upon users whose sewage is of such a nature
that it imposes upon the sewage works a burden greater than that covered by the
basic user charge.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in “Standard Methods.”
   TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS. Organic compounds defined as the summation of all:
      (1)   Volatile organics as analyzed using US EPA method 624 or
equivalent;
      (2)   Semi-Volatile Organics as analyzed using US EPA method 625 or
equivalent; and
      (3)   PCBs and Pesticides as analyzed using US EPA method 608 or
equivalent.
   USER. A person who introduces into or discharges into, including the owner
and occupant of real estate from which is introduced or discharged into the
sewerage system, any substance.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from a single family or multifamily dwelling into the sewerage system.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in providing merchandise for personal,
household or industrial consumption and/or rendering services to others.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL USER.  A publicly or privately owned school,
hospital, nursing home, prison or other similar institution whose wastes are
segregated domestic wastes.
      (4)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user engaged in legislative, judicial or
administrative activities of federal, state and local governments such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, city halls and the like.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges non-domestic wastes.
      (6)   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL
USER or SIU means the following:
            1.   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 I AC 5-18-10; and/or
            2.   An industrial user that:
               a.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blow
down wastewater) to the POTW;
               b.   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
               c.   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the town
on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
                  I.   Adversely affect the POTW's operation;
                  ii.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
                  iii.   Violate a requirement of 327 IAC 5-19-3.
         (b)   The town may, on its own initiative or in response to a petition
received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with 327 IAC 5-19-
3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant industrial user if
it does not meet subsection (a)2.c.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement of the works.
   VIOLATION CHARGE.  A charge levied upon a user that has discharged a
substance in violation with any numerical threshold or other prohibited
substance as defined in §
50.073—Limitation on Wastewater Strength of this chapter pursuant to §
50.999-Penalty.
   WASTE. Sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation or of human or
animal origin or from any producing, processing, manufacturing or industrial
operation of any nature, including WASTE placed within containers of whatever
nature before and for the purpose of disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
by the town for treatment and disposal of sewage, sludge and other sewage
constituents and products.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.004 ADMINISTRATION BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may adopt and enforce, after reasonable regulations not in
conflict herewith as it may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and
efficient management of the town's sewerage system and wastewater treatment
plant and for the construction and use of building or house lateral sewers and
connection connections to the sewage system, regulations which may include
limitations of, prohibitions of introduction of or infiltration by storm water,
surface water and ground water into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.005 RIGHT OF SUPERINTENDENT AND INSPECTOR TO ENTER ANY PREMISES.
   The Superintendent, Inspector or other person duly authorized by the town,
upon reasonable notice to any person who is owner, tenant or occupant of any
real estate is empowered to enter upon presentation of proper credentials all
premises for the purposes of inspecting, observing, measuring, sampling and
testing water, sewage and industrial waste. This includes but is not limited to
commercial or other grease traps, or the premises of any industrial user to
conduct inspections, surveillance, record review, and/or monitoring, as
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter and, if applicable, any
effective industrial wastewater pretreatment permit.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.006 DAMAGING, DEFACING SEWERAGE WORKS PROPERTY.
   A person shall not maliciously, willfully or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the town sewerage system.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   A user, upon accidentally discharging chemicals, corrosive substances or
anything harmful to the sewerage system, treatment process or wastewater in
violation of this chapter, immediately shall notify the Superintendent to
enable countermeasures to be taken by the town to minimize damage to the
sewerage system, treatment processes and receiving stream.
   (A)   This notification shall be followed within seven days of the date of
occurrence by a detailed, written report, signed by the user, describing the
causes of the accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent
future, similar occurrences.
   (B)   The notification will not relieve users of liability for any expense,
loss or damage to the sewerage system, wastewater treatment plant or treatment
process or any fines or penalties imposed by the Town Council, which expense.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.008 CONTINUED FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   The Town Council shall have the following methods of recourse in the event
of repeated or willful failure by a user to meet the wastewater admissibility
requirements of this chapter. In addition, the town shall have and the Council
may exercise all other legally available remedies.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.009 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the town a false
statement, representation, record, report, plan or other document required to
be filed hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the Town Council or
voluntarily filed with the intent the town rely thereon, or falsify, tamper
with or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring or
timing device required or installed under these regulations.
   (B)   A person shall not, during any monitoring or surveillance period,
alter industrial processes or other activities for the purpose of rendering
samples drawn or measurements taken during the monitoring or surveillance
unrepresentative or uncharacteristic of normal operations, flows or
concentrations of pollutants.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.010 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided by the Town Council or the state, a person
shall not construct or maintain a privy, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.011 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided at all restaurants
and at all industrial or commercial enterprises when, in the opinion of the
town, they are necessary to contain grease, flammable wastes or sand and other
harmful inert materials. All interceptors shall be approved by the town and
shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Receipt of any and all cleanings of such interceptors, as well as
records of the proper disposal of all material removed from the interceptors,
shall be filed with the town within seven standard business days of said
cleaning. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the interceptor to
submit these records to the town as well as produce them immediately during the
course of any inspection by a duly authorized representative of the town.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.012 WHEN CONNECTION TO TOWN SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   Any person constructing a new house or other building for occupancy,
employment, recreation, industrial or commercial activity within the town shall
connect to the sewerage system in accord with applicable ordinances and
regulations and shall not discharge sewage elsewhere than into the sewerage
system.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.013 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Special agreements and arrangements between the town and any person
within Shelby County may be established by the Town Council within the terms
and intent of this chapter when, in the opinion of the Council, unusual or
extraordinary circumstances compel special terms and conditions whereby an
unusual wastewater may be accepted for treatment, subject to payment of
applicable fees.
   (B)   Any such agreement shall be retained on file and available for
inspection by any duly authorized agent of the town or of the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management in the event of an inspection as defined
under §
50.005 of this chapter. Any such agreement shall be subject to review,
revision, or termination in the event that a violation of the terms of the
agreement is found.
   (C)   Any and all special agreements will be subject to full review at the
end of the active terms of the agreement and no such agreement shall carry
terms longer than four years.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.014 LIABILITY FOR EQUIPMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters
or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the user, at the user's expense, and shall, at all reasonable
times, be open to inspection and testing by the town.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.015 TOWN'S RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE.
   The town shall have the right to reject waste and prohibit the introduction
of rejected waste into the sewerage system or the town may require pretreatment
of the waste when the strength or character of the waste is such that it could
damage or interfere with the operation of the sewerage system. When
pretreatment is necessary, the pretreated wastes must meet the restrictions
contained in the Environmental Protection Agency Pretreatment Standard (40 CFR
403).
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.016 PROHIBITING USES WITHIN THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION SANITARY SETBACK AREA.
   (A)   The construction of new sanitary or storm sewer lines within the
sanitary setbacks of the wellhead protection area shall be prohibited.
   (B)   In the instance that the prohibition set forth in division (A) above
cannot be met, a variance may be granted on the basis of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The sewer pipe is installed more than 50 feet, as measured from all
directions, from a public water supply system production well;
      (2)   The pipe is of water grade construction quality, in accordance with
prevailing laws.
   (C)   Highways, interstates, county roads and any other roadway, driveway or
parking surface shall be prohibited within the sanitary setback.
   (D)   A parking surface for well service vehicles shall be permitted if the
area is owned and controlled by the town and restricted from access by the
public.
(Ord. 10-2014, passed 8-13-14)
LATERAL SEWERS
§ 50.030 SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building or house lateral sewer shall be provided
for every building or house, except where one building or house stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building or house through an adjoining alley, court,
yard or driveway. In such cases, the building or house lateral sewer from the
front building or house may be extended to the rear building or house and the
whole considered one building or house lateral sewer.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.031 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The size, shape, alignment, materials or construction of a building or house
lateral sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall conform to the requirements
of the building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and regulations
of the town.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.032 USE OF OLD LATERAL SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDING.
   Old building or house lateral sewers may be used in connection with new
buildings or houses only when they are determined, upon examination and test by
the Inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.033 ELEVATION AND LOCATION.
   Whenever reasonably possible, the building or house lateral sewer shall be
brought to the building or house at an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings or houses in which any building or house drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the appropriate public sewer, wastewater carried by the
building or house drain shall be lifted by an appropriate means and discharged
to the building or house lateral sewer.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
CONNECTIONS
§ 50.040 DOWNSPOUTS, DRAINS AND THE LIKE.
   No person hereafter shall connect or reconnect roof downspouts, footing
drains, areaway drains, parking lots or other sources of surface, runoff or
ground water to a building or house lateral sewer or building or house drain
which, in turn, is connected directly or indirectly to the sewerage system.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION OF CONNECTION.
   The applicant for a building or house lateral sewer permit shall notify the
Town Council or its designated representative when a building or house lateral
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the sewerage system. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or the
Inspector's representative using materials and techniques conforming to the
requirements of the Council. The applicant shall give notice before the burial
or covering of the lateral sewer and shall not cover or bury the sewer until
the inspection is completed and the connection approved.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 EXTENSION OUTSIDE TOWN.
   A person shall not directly or indirectly make any connections with or
openings into the sewerage system for the purpose of serving any areas outside
the corporate boundaries of the town without first securing a specific
resolution of the Town Council describing the real estate and property to be
served and authorizing the connection.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 TOWN'S RIGHT TO PROHIBIT NEW CONNECTIONS.
   The town shall have the right to prohibit new connections when the excess
capacity of the sewerage system is deemed insufficient by the Town Council to
accommodate the expected flow, BOD and/or suspended solids loading from the
prospective sewer user.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
PRIVATE WELLS
§ 50.050 REGISTRATION.
   Every owner or occupant of real estate within the corporate limits of the
town, or real estate from which there is a lateral sewer or other means or path
of direct or indirect flow into the sewerage system shall report, on a form
provided by the Town Council, the existence of any such well to the
Superintendent. The information furnished on the form by the owner or occupant
shall include, among other items, the name of the owner and occupant of the
real estate, the location of the real estate of the well, the size of the well
pipe, the size (voltage, amperage and horsepower, where ascertainable) of the
well pump motor and the purpose for which the well water is used by the owner,
occupant or others.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.051 METERING.
   The Town Council shall determine, by any reasonable means, including but not
limited to, the use of water meters and timing devices, the flow of the well in
order to determine the amount of sewage entering the sewerage system. The owner
or occupant of the real estate shall pay for the metering device, which shall
be of a type approved by the Council and which shall remain the property of the
owner but be under the exclusive control of the Council and shall not, under
any circumstances, be tampered with by the owner, occupant or any other person.
In the case of wells for household use only, the Council may, in lieu of
metering or timing the use of the well, provide for use of reasonable estimates
regarding water volume.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.052 INSPECTION.
   The Town Council may direct the Superintendent, Inspector or any other
employee to enter upon private property for the purpose of inspecting to
determine the existence of private wells, to oversee or to direct the
installation of metering or timing devices and to read the meters and devices.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.053 DIGGING.
   A person hereafter shall not dig or drive a well within the town limits
without first making application therefor to the Superintendent. The
application shall be on a form approved by the Town Council and shall show all
pertinent data regarding size and flow. The application shall be signed by both
the installer of the well (the contractor or other person doing the work) and
the owner or owner's agent (other than the installer). The failure to file such
an application shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
DISCHARGES; SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS; SURVEILLANCE
§ 50.060 PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any sewage or other polluted
water except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.061 DETERMINING SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   Each commercial and industrial user shall supply the town with information
about expected wastewater constituents and characteristics to be used in
determining whether or not the user will be a significant industrial user. The
user shall submit a “Non-Domestic Discharger Survey Sheet” to the
Superintendent for review and consideration for formal determination.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.062 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER PERMITS.
   (A)   Any industrial user and any other user on demand of the Town Council
shall provide the town with sufficient information to determine if he or she is
a significant industrial user. Any user determined a significant industrial
user shall be required to obtain a permit which describes the wastewater
constituents and characteristics allowed and which sets forth the applicable
surveillance schedule and the monitoring requirements the user shall be subject
to in order to discharge into the sewerage system. A significant industrial
user permit shall be valid for four years unless processing changes are made
that in the opinion of the Superintendent or Council alter wastewater
constituents and characteristics significantly. In the event of such a change a
new application shall be filed accordingly. A permit may be renewed without
reapplication at the end of four years at the discretion of the town.
   (B)   Nothing in a significant industrial user permit shall constitute an
exception to the prohibitions and limitations on wastewater admissibility as
set forth herein. Significant industrial users are subject to all applicable
fees, rates and charges set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   A user holding an NPDES or IWP permit from the state is prima facie
entitled to a significant industrial user permit from the town. The holder of
any NPDES or IWP permit from the state shall file with the Superintendent a
copy of each report or application the permit holder files with the state, the
copy to be filed with the town not later than three business days after the
filing with the appropriate state authority. Each user who applies to the state
for an NPDES permit shall similarly file a copy of the application and all
supporting documents with the town within the three-day time period.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.063 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER PERMIT APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Significant industrial users shall make application for the proposed
discharge on a form provided by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, studies or other information
considered pertinent by the Town Council.
   (B)   Permit fees for significant industrial users shall be as follows:
$200.00
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.064 SURVEILLANCE OF SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   To establish a feasible surveillance schedule, the following classes
of significant industrial users are formed:
 
Class Qualification                               Minimum Surveillance Schedule
A     Flow of 100,000 gallons per day (0.1 MGD)   Quarterly
      or more per average work day.
      Flow of 0.025 MGD to 0.1 MGD per average
B     work day or discharge with constituents or  Twice annually
      characteristics that result in a
      significant industrial user classification.
 
   (B)   The surveillance period normally will be for a period of seven
consecutive days and consist of three 24-hour composite and/or three grab
samples as applicable for the discharge characteristics of interest, but can be
of longer or shorter duration at the discretion of the Town Council or
Superintendent, and shall occur with or without prior notification to the user.
In cases where the surveillance period extends for more than seven consecutive
days, the town shall have the prerogative of selecting seven consecutive days
of its choice for establishing rates and charges as provided for in this
chapter.
   (C)   Users that hold an Industrial Wastewater Pretreatment (IWP) permit
issued by the State of Indiana shall be subject to town surveillance in
addition to the self-monitoring and reporting requirements of the IWP permit.
Historical compliance or non-compliance with both the IWP and the town's
limitations upon discharge may decrease or increase the frequency with which
town surveillance may occur as deemed necessary by the Town Manager and/or
Wastewater Superintendent.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.065 SURVEILLANCE SURVEY CHARGE.
   (A)   The charge for each surveillance survey shall be $40 per day in
addition to any and all independent laboratory fees incurred by the town with a
maximum charge for seven days of $1,000.
   (B)   The Town Council may adopt a schedule of lower but not higher
surveillance fees and may waive surveillance fees in proper instances,
particularly when surveillance is to detect or determine improper discharge
found not to exist. In a case where no improper discharge is found the Council
may charge a minimum fee of $20.
   (C)   Where the industry has an ongoing pretreatment facility or system
approved by the state or by the Council, there will be no surveillance fee,
unless the Council finds the user having the pretreatment facility or system
has violated the effluent standards applicable to the user.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.066 MONITORING SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   A significant industrial user shall install at its own expense:
      (1)   A suitable control manhole or other access means, together with
other necessary appurtenances in or on each building lateral sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastewater; and
      (2)   Sampling devices that may be reasonably necessary or unless
otherwise instructed by the town.
   (B)   A user will be required by the town to install the manholes or other
access means and sampling and testing devices shall be constructed and
maintained to the town's satisfaction at the expense of the user, but shall be
under the control of the town.
   (C)   The town may provide monitoring equipment during a surveillance period
for control manholes or other access means.
   (D)   Monitoring equipment shall unless otherwise specified by the town
include a device for automatically measuring flow and a device for
automatically taking a composite sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
Any such equipment shall be calibrated by an independent consultant at the
user's expense at least once annually and receipt and documentation of said
calibrations shall be provided to the town within seven business days of the
service and immediately available at the site during the course of an
inspection by the town or a duly appointed representative.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.067 LIMITATIONS ON POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other
opening in the sewerage system other than through the approved building or
house lateral sewer, except in accordance with the terms of this chapter or by
express permission of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.068 COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL WASTE HAULING.
   A person who is a licensed commercial or industrial waste hauler may not
discharge compatible pollutants and those incompatible pollutants within the
limits of admissibility set out herein to the wastewater treatment plant at any
time or place. However, the Town Council may accept the discharge if it elects,
in given cases, to do so. Wastewater so received may have been generated within
the county. If accepted, the Superintendent must receive a written document
showing name of hauler, license, source and quantity of wastewater prior to
discharge. The location and time of discharge shall be determined by the
Superintendent. The Superintendent may require test data to support the
constituents of the wastewater prior to discharge.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.069 DISCHARGES THAT ARE FLAMMABLE, CREATE OBSTRUCTIONS, CAUSE ODORS AND
THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge to the sewerage system wastes which cause,
threaten to cause or are capable of causing either alone of by interaction with
other substances under penalty as defined in §
50.999:
   (A)   Obstruction of flow in the sewerage system or injury to the system or
damage to the wastewater collection, treatment or disposal facilities to the
wastewater collection, treatment or disposal facilities;
   (B)   Danger to the life and safety of personnel;
   (C)   A nuisance or hindrance of the effective maintenance or operation of
the sewer system, such as through having an unusually strong or unpleasant
odor;
   (D)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or unusually malodorous gases or
malodorous gas producing substances;
   (E)   The wastewater treatment plant's effluent or any other product of the
treatment process, residue, sludge or scum to be unsuitable for reclamation,
disposal or to interfere with the reclamation process or fail to meet any of
the limitations set by any federal or state agency or the terms of the town
NPDES permit;
   (F)   A pollutant from any source of non-domestic wastewaters that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
POTW;
   (G)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140ºF. (60º
C.) using the test methods in 40 CFR 261.21;
   (H)   A pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
including a discharge with pH lower than five (5.0), unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such a discharge;
   (I)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause obstruction
to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the POTW;
   (J)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
biochemical oxygen
demand), released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration that
could cause interference in the POTW;
   (K)   Heat in an amount that could inhibit biological activity in the POTW
and result in interference or damage to the POTW; or exceed 40º C. or one 104º
F. at the POTW treatment plant unless the commissioner, upon request of the
POTW, approves alternate temperature limits;
   (L)   Petroleum, oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in an amount that could cause interference or pass through;
   (M)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
   (N)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except with the permission of the POTW
and when introduced to the POTW at a discharge point designated by the POTW; or
   (O)   A violation of Federal Clean Water Act 307(a) or 307(b).
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.070 UNPOLLUTED AND COOLING WATER.
   Unpolluted water, including, but not limited to, town water, cooling water,
process water or blow down from cooling towers or evaporative coolers shall not
be discharged through direct or indirect connection to the sewerage system for
the purposes of diluting wastewater in order to reduce sewer rates or charges
of the user. Limitations on the amount of unpolluted water that is discharged
shall be part of a major contributor's permit.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.071 RADIOACTIVE WASTE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive waste
into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.072 PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.
   Only properly shredded garbage, as defined in §
50.003, may be discharged into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.073 LIMITATION ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   All constituents and characteristics which singly or in combination may
damage or impair structures, impair the operation of the wastewater treatment
plant, interfere with the treatment process the quality of the receiving stream
or its tributaries, including but not limited to the following constituents and
characteristics with maximum concentration as shown below.
   (A)    A person shall not discharge any wastewater with:
      (1)   A BOD5 concentration in excess of 800 mg/L in a single 24-hour
composite sample, nor in excess in 600 mg/L as a monthly average of any and all
samples take during a calendar month;
      (2)   A suspended solids concentration in excess of 400 mg/L in a single
24-hour composite sample, nor in excess of 250 mg/L as a monthly average of any
and all samples taken during a calendar month.
   (B)   A person shall not discharge any wastewater containing concentration
in excess of:
      (1)   A temperature higher than 150º F.;
      (2)   A pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0;
      (3)   0.20 mg/L cadmium;
      (4)   1.7 mg/L Total Chromium
      (5)   0.25 mg/L hexavalent chromium (Cr, VI) for one day or 0.09 mg/
L hexavalent chromium for 30 consecutive days average;
      (6)   2.00 mg/L copper;
      (7)   0.6 mg/L Total Cyanide;
      (8)   0.20 mg/L cyanide amenable to chlorination (CN, A) for one day or
0.08 mg/L cyanide amenable to chlorination for any 30 consecutive days average;
      (9)   0.4 mg/L lead;
      (10)   0.000012 mg/L mercury;
      (11)   0.80 mg/L nickel;
      (12)   0.10 mg/L silver;
      (13)   1.0 mg/L zinc;
      (14)   100 mg/L fats, wax, oil and grease whether emulsified or not;
      (15)   1.0 mg/L phenolic compounds that cannot be removed by the town's
wastewater treatment process;
      (16)   2.13 mg/L Total Toxic Organics which shall include the summation
of all:
         (a)   Volatile organics as analyzed using US EPA method 624 or
equivalent;
         (b)   Semi-Volatile Organics as analyzed using US EPA method 625 or
equivalent; and
         (c)   PCBs and pesticides as analyzed using US EPA method 608 or
equivalent;
      (17)   45 mg/L ammonia;
      (18)   22 mg/L phosphorus;
      (19)   Any of the divisions above in other concentration than stated
above if applicable state or federal regulations or regulations of the Town
Council set different maximum concentrations;
      (20)   Any other substance or concentration thereof prohibited to all
user classes of users by state or federal law or regulation now or hereafter
adopted by the Council;
      (21)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or
to constitute a hazard to humans or animals or to create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the treatment plant;
      (22)   The limitations imposed by divisions (B)(1) through (B)(18) above
are found by the Council to be those attainable by the best practical
technology. Limitations adopted by the Council shall in all cases be based on
the best practical technology.
      (23)   All metals, unless specifically noted, shall be reported as total
recoverable metals. Methods utilized in the analysis of any of the above
parameters must be done in accordance with 40 CFR 136 or equivalent. Equivalent
methods must be at least as sensitive and specific as those listed and approved
by the US EPA.
      (24)   Violations of the parameters set forth in this section shall
subject the user to violation fees as defined in §
50.999 -- Penalties, in addition to any and all applicable surcharge fees,
surveillance fees, or other fees and or conditions contained within this
chapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10; Am. Ord. 04-
2014, passed 2-26-14; Am. Ord. 2016-2, passed 2-10-16) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.074 TIME SCHEDULE.
   When the town finds a discharge of wastewater has been taking place in
violation of the admissibility requirements prescribed in this chapter or the
provisions of a significant industrial user permit, the town may require the
user to submit for approval a detailed time schedule for specific actions,
acceptable to the Town Council, which the user shall take in order to prevent
or correct a violation of the requirements.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.075 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   When the town finds a discharge of wastewater has taken place or is likely
to take place in violation of the admissibility requirements of this chapter,
or of a significant industrial user permit, the Town Council may issue an order
to cease and desist and may direct the user not complying with the requirements
to comply forthwith, comply within a time schedule set forth by the Council or
take appropriate remedial or preventive action.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.076 INJUNCTION.
   When the town finds a discharge of wastewater is in violation of the
admissibility requirements of this chapter or the provisions of a significant
industrial user permit or otherwise causes or threatens to cause a condition of
pollution or nuisance, the Town Council, on behalf of the town, may petition
any court of proper jurisdiction for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction or both, as may be appropriate, in restraining the continuance of a
discharge.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.077 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   The town may revoke any significant industrial user permit or terminate or
cause to be terminated wastewater service in whole or in part if a violation of
any provisions of this chapter or the significant industrial user permit is
found to exist or if a discharge causes or threatens to cause a condition of
pollution or nuisance as defined in this chapter, or causes the town to violate
the terms of its NPDES permit or any state or federal law or regulation.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.078 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   Any user affected by any decision, action or determination, including
cease and desist orders, made by the Superintendent, interpreting or
implementing the provisions of this chapter, any permit issued herein or any
action, decision or regulation of the Town Council adopted pursuant hereto, may
file with the Council a written request for review and reconsideration within
ten days of such a decision, action or determination, setting forth in detail
the facts supporting the user's request for reconsideration.
   (B)   The appeal shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Council
within 30 days from the date of filing. The Superintendent's decision, action
or determination shall remain in effect during the period of reconsideration,
unless the Council determines otherwise on request of the user.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.079 SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The status of an industrial user that has caused or allowed a violation that
meets one or more of the following criteria:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as those in
which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed, by any magnitude, the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the
same pollutant parameter.
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in which
33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals one and
four-tenths (1.4) for biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, fats,
oil, and grease and one and two-tenths (1.2) for all other pollutants except
pH).
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum or
longer-term average) that the town determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public.
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority under 327 IAC 5-19-3(l)(G) to halt or
prevent such a discharge.
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or enforcement order
for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance.
   (F)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as:
      (1)   Baseline monitoring reports;
      (2)   Ninety day compliance reports;
      (3)   Periodic self-monitoring reports; and
      (4)   Reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations that the town determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the approved POTW
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
CHARGES; FEES; RATES; BILLING
§ 50.090 PERSONS SUBJECT TO FEES AND SEWER CHARGES.
   For the use and service rendered by the sewerage works, sewer charges shall
be collected from the person who owns each and every parcel of real estate that
is connected directly or indirectly to the town's sewerage system or otherwise
discharges wastewater either directly or indirectly into the sewerage system of
the town. These sewer charges shall be payable as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.091 EFFECTIVE DATE; EXTENSION TO OTHER PROPERTY.
   The sewer charges fixed by this subchapter shall become effective at the
time the user first discharges to the sewerage system. These sewer charges
shall be extended to and cover any additional premises thereafter served,
without the necessity of any hearing or notice.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.092 RATE BASIS.
   The sewer flow charges shall be based on the quantity of water as measured
by the water meter used on or in the premises subject to the sewer charges,
except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.093 METER READING.
   Water meters shall be read once each month or at the option of the town at
other intervals.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.094 SINGLE METER FOR MORE THAN ONE USER.
   In the event two or more premises, including apartments and trailers
discharging wastewater into the town's sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly are consumers of water, and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter, for billing purposes the quantity of water used shall be
the average for each user and the minimum charge and the sewage rates and
charges shall apply to each of the number of premises served through the single
water meter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.095 WATER OBTAINED FROM OTHER SOURCES.
   In the event a user obtains water partially or wholly from sources other
than the town waterworks, the total water used must be measured or determined
as provided in §
50.051, §
50.066 or by other reasonable means as the Town Council may direct. In the case
of a single-family household having a private well but no town water supply,
the sewer flow charge shall be for 8,000 gallons per month, unless a meter is
installed on the well at the request of either the user or the town, in which
case the cost of installation will be paid by the user and the meter will be
provided by the town. The installation of any such meter shall be approved by
the town.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.096 WATER NOT ENTERING SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   In the case of a user using more than 30,000 gallons of water per month, who
can substantiate to the town that a portion of the water does not and cannot
enter the sewerage system, the Town Council shall determine either the portion
of the measured water to be used in determining the appropriate sewer charges,
or approved the manner and technique of flow measurement provided by the user
for determining wastewater discharged to the sewerage system. Facilities used
to accomplish this shall be installed and maintained in a serviceable condition
by the user, at the user's expense, but shall be under the exclusive control of
the town.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.097 BILLING PROCEDURE; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Sewer billings and invoices shall be rendered and collected
approximately monthly.
   (B)   The Town Council shall make and enforce bylaws and regulations as may
be necessary for regulating, collecting, rebating and refunding of the sewer
charges prescribed by this section.
   (C)   Significant industrial users with a flow in excess of 25,000 gallons
per average work day shall have billing determined on the basis of wastewater
discharged as monitored by §
50.064, with the exception described in division (D) below.
   (D)   At its option, the town may accept monitoring data and information
from a significant industrial user to substantiate billing determination on a
more frequent basis than as established in §
50.064. The allowance does not exempt the significant industrial user from the
surveillance survey fee set by the town to offset the costs of monitoring
performed by the town. In the event there is a difference in analytical results
that is not explainable by a normal variation in the testing procedure, the
user may, within 30 days of billing, appeal to the Council.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.098 BILLING OF TENANTS; PROPERTY OWNER'S RIGHT TO EXAMINE RECORDS.
   Sewer charges may be billed to the tenants occupying the premises served
unless otherwise instructed in writing by the person who owns the premises. The
billing in no way shall relieve the owner of liability in the event payment is
not made as herein required. The owners of the premises served, which are
occupied by tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of
the town for the purpose of determining whether the sewer charges have been
paid by the tenants, provided the examination shall be made at the office at
which the records are kept and during the time the office is open for business.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.099 TOWN'S LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   For the service rendered to any department or agency of the town, except the
Sewer Department, the town shall be subject to the sewer charges provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.100 SURCHARGE BASED ON FLOW AND CONCENTRATION.
   (A)   All wastewater discharged by significant industrial users shall meet
the admissibility standards in §§
50.011,
50.014,
50.015 and
50.062 through
50.073 by treatment, if necessary, as determined by the Town Council or shall
be subject to violation fees in addition to surcharge fees as defined herein.
Wastewater beyond the limits of surcharge set forth in §
50.101 may be accepted and surcharged in accordance with the schedule in §
50.101 as calculated here.
   (B)   Surcharges shall be based on actual quantities discharged for
treatment as determined from measured concentration and flow. Surcharge rates
for wastewater characteristics not provided for herein may be set at the
reasonable discretion of the Council, taking into account all of the Sewer
Department's significant cost factors relating to treatment, handling and
disposal.
   (C)   Calculation of each surcharge shall be based upon the following
components:
      (1)   Ci: Shall be the average concentration in mg/L of a constituent
(I), as measured from all samples taken within a given monitoring time frame of
no less than one month and no more than six months.
      (2)   Cs: Shall be the base concentration in mg/L of a constituent (I) as
defined in §
50.101 and is representative of a strong domestic wastewater and therefore
considered sufficiently funded under the “Treatment Charge” as defined in §
50.102.
      (3)   Qt: Shall be the total flow in million gallons (Mgal) over the
given monitoring time frame consistent with that used in the calculation of
“Ci” above.
   (D)   Surcharge Formula: The surcharge for each constituent found to be in
excess of the schedule set forth in §
50.101 shall be independently calculated as follows:
   Total Surcharge for constituent (I)
               shall equal (=)
   The Surcharge Rate (I) in $/lb
            multiplied by (x)
   The average concentration less the base concentration (Ci - Cs) in mg/L
            multiplied by (x)
   The Total Flow in Mgal
            multiplied by (x)
   8.34 pounds/gallon
   (E)   The total surcharge fee incurred by a user shall be the sum of all
individual constituent surcharges applicable.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10; Am. Ord. 2016-2,
passed 2-10-16)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.101 SURCHARGE RATES.
   The rate of surcharge, in addition to volumetric charges, for the following
constituents shall be as follows:
   (A)    For BOD in excess of 200 mg/L, $0.24 per pound;
   (B)   For suspended solids in excess of 200 mg/L, $0.24 per pound;
   (C)   For ammonia in excess of 25 mg/L, $0.30 per pound; and
   (D)   For phosphorus in excess of 15 mg/L, $0.60 per pound.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 1996-2, passed 2-14-96; Am. Ord. 2000-8,
passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-01, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-
10; Am. Ord. 2016-2, passed 2-10-16)
§ 50.102 SEWAGE CHARGES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewer works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town's sanitary system or
who otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs, and
other service charges, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter
provided and shall be in an amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   Metered water users. The sewage rates and charges shall be based on
the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject to such
rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter therein use, plus
a base charge, except as herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing
and collecting the charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read
monthly. The water usage schedule on which the amounts of the rates and charges
shall be determined is as follows:
      (1)   Treatment rate — per 1,000 gallons of usage per month.
 
All Users User Charge Debt Service Total
          $ 2.72      $ 1.22       $ 3.94
 
      (2)   Base rate — per month as follows.
Meter size User Charge Debt Service Total
Meter size User Charge Debt Service Total
- ¾"      $ 3.22      $ 8.83       $ 12.05
1"         6.45        22.08        28.53
1 ¼"      9.67        35.32        44.99
1 ½"      13.53       51.21        64.74
2"         22.57       88.30        110.87
3"         50.52       203.09       253.61
4"         87.07       353.20       440.27
6"         196.72      803.53       1,000.25
 
   (B)   Unmetered water users. The flat monthly sewer charge for any
residential user who is not a metered water user shall be based upon the
schedule in division (A) above applied to an estimated volume of 4,500 gallons,
as follows:
      (1)   User charge. The user charge shall be $12.14.
      (2)   Debt service charge. The debt service charge shall be $14.32.
      (3)   Total monthly flat sewer charge. The total monthly flat sewer
charge shall be $29.78.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 1996-2, passed 2-14-96; Am. Ord. 2000-8,
passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-01, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 3-2009, passed 3-11-
09; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.103 COUNCIL'S AUTHORITY TO SET AND COLLECT REVENUE.
   (A)   The Town Council is empowered to determine rates, charges and fees for
septic tank, industrial waste and other disposable wastewater and wastes
delivered to the wastewater treatment plant, as provided in §
50.068 and to collect the charges and fees.
   (B)   The Council is empowered to determine and to collect the charges as it
may reasonably provide for under special agreements entered into by the
Council, on behalf of the town, under §
50.013.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.104 ADJUSTMENTS FOR WATER USED ON LAWNS.
   (A)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users of
sewage service shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during July and
August, the billing for sewage service for residences and/or domestic users for
those months shall be based upon the water usage for the previous months of
September, October and November.
   (B)   In the event the water usage for September, October and November is
greater than the water usage for July and August, the billing charge for sewage
services shall be computed on the actual water used in the month for which the
sewage service bill is being rendered.
   (C)   Domestic and/or residential sewage services as applicable to the
sprinkling rate shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate or building
which is occupied and used as a single family residence.
   (D)   The sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a
portion of the premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate meter and in
such case the water usage registered by the water meter serving the portion of
the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling
rate. The preceding notwithstanding, if the water usage during September
through November does not reflect sewage usage during July and August as
determined in the sole discretion of the Town Council, the Council may either:
      (1)   Fix a billing for July and August which the Council shall deem
reasonable; or
      (2)   Impose billing based upon the actual water used in July and August,
all in the sole discretion of the Council.
   (E)   The Council, in its sole discretion, may make allowance for water
usage which does not result in use of the sewerage system, other than the above
allowance for sprinkling.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.105 FEES FOR NEW CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   A fee shall be paid for every new connection to the sewerage system of
the town, due before the connection is made, as set forth in the following
schedule based upon the type of services for the connection, with single family
residences to have a connection fee of $300 and other sewage connection
services to have a connection fee equal to the multiple of $300 contained in
the Equivalent Dwelling Unit Table.
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT TABLE
Type of Service Unit Equivalent
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT TABLE
Type of Service                        Unit Equivalent
Single family residence & condominiums 1.0
Two-family residence                   1.5
Multi-family residences and apartments
One bedroom                            0.64
Two bedrooms                           0.96
Three bedrooms                         1.00
Mobile homes and parks                 .75 per unit
Hotels and motels                      .32 per unit
Service clubs and churches             0.2 per 3,000 square feet area
Office buildings                       0.3 per 1,000 square feet area
Hospitals                              0.50 per bed
Health service office                  0.3 per 1,000 square feet area
Personal care                          0.2 per chair
Restaurant                             0.1 per seat
Food (drive-in)                        0.1 per car space
Food and drug retail service           0.2 per employee
Laundry                                1.0 per washer
Car wash                               1.0 per bay
Service station                        .4 per bay
Retail sales and service               1.0 per 10 employees
Manufacturing, sanitary use only       1.0 per 10 employees
Other sewer uses                       Set by comparable use by Council
Significant industrial user            Set by comparable use by Council
 
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above notwithstanding, a credit of $300
shall be given upon the fee for the connection if the lot already has been
paying the minimum monthly sewage bill.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 2004-07, passed 12-29-04; Am. Ord. 9-
2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.106 CAPACITY FEE.
   (A)   Capacity fee shall mean the payment required for the benefit or
privilege of making a connection, directly or indirectly, to the town's sewage
collection system.
   (B)   Developer shall mean an owner of, or person acting on behalf of an
owner to develop property to be served by the municipal sewer utility.
   (C)   Equivalent dwelling unit shall mean a conversion of flows from
nonresidential use or multi-family units to flows equivalent to single family
dwelling(s). One equivalent dwelling unit is equal to 310 gallons per day usage
rate.
   (D)   Prior to connecting to the town's sanitary sewer facilities, a
developer shall be required to pay a capacity fee in the amount of $1,750 per
equivalent dwelling unit. Multi-family dwelling units and non-residential users
shall be converted to an equivalent dwelling unit as determined by the type of
user. The equivalent dwelling units assessed shall be in accordance with the
equivalent dwelling unit table. Capacity fees for users not listed in the table
or of unique character will be established by the Superintendent of the
Utility. These fees are in addition to the tap fee and the user fees.
   (E)   Capacity fees shall be due and payable at the time of application for
service and prior to the tap and connection to the system. No connection to the
sewer utility will be allowed prior to the receipt by the town of all capacity
and tap fees.
(Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.107 DUE DATES.
   (A)   Charges for sewerage service levied pursuant to this chapter shall be
due and payable on or before the due dates shown on the bills. Any service
charge not paid by the due date, which shall be the fifteenth day of the
calendar month next succeeding the calendar month in which sewerage service is
rendered, shall be considered delinquent. Delinquent sewer charges, together
with the costs and other expenses of collection, may be collected by any lawful
remedy, including, where applicable, the placing of and foreclosure of liens on
real estate as provided by state law.
   (B)   All rates and charges of any type not paid when due are hereby
declared delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates or charges
thereupon shall attach thereto. Unless another due date is specified for a rate
or charge imposed under this chapter, the due date shall be 30 days after the
service or consideration shall be rendered by the town, regardless of whether a
billing shall be submitted.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.108 NOTIFICATION.
   Each user shall be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill of
the user charge rate and that portion of the sewer charges which is
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 50.109 PROPERTY OWNERS NOT USING TOWN UTILITIES FOR AN EXTENDED PERIOD ONLY
SUBJECT TO CERTAIN MINIMUM CHARGES.
   Property owners connected to Morristown Utilities who do not use Morristown
Utilities for a consecutive period of at least four weeks, and do not have an
outstanding balance related to the use of Morristown Utilities shall only be
subject to minimum wastewater (sewage) charges.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 3-28-12)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction,
be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500. Any industrial user violating
any provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction, be fined not less than
$1,000 per day per violation in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(l)(vi)(A), but
not more than $2,500 per day, per violation for a first violation or more than
$7,500 per day, per violation for subsequent violations, in accordance with IC
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B). Each day such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate violation. The town shall impose fees, if necessary, to
offset the actual cost and expense incurred as a result of a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 7-26-82; Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-28-10)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Rates and Charges
   
51.01   Metered monthly usage; service fee
   
51.02   Minimum monthly charge
   
51.03   Fire protection
   
51.04   Automatic sprinklers
   
51.05   Meter deposit; reconnection fee for delinquent customers
   
51.06   Meter taps
   
51.07   Customer fault charges
   
51.08   Connection charge; reconnection charge
   
51.09   Late payment charge
   
51.10   Bad check charge
   
51.11   Water meters for businesses
   
51.12   Appealing disconnect notices
Water Meter Rental and Large Volume Water Sales
   
51.20   Non-resident user must contact town offices before connecting to water
supply
   
51.21   Water meter rental fee
   
51.22   Billing
   
51.23   Penalty fee for failure to notify town and rent meter
   
51.24   Civil action for failure to pay
Cross-reference:
   Property owners not using town utilities for an extended period only subject
to certain minimum charges, see §
50.109
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.01 METERED MONTHLY USAGE; SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   The rates for water services for the Town Municipal Water Utility
shall be as set by the Town Council.
   (B)   The following rates shall be in effect:
 
Monthly Metered Flow 2022  2023  2024  2025
First 10,000 gallons $4.11 $4.11 $4.11 $4.11
Next 490,000 gallons $3.88 $3.88 $3.88 $3.88
Over 500,000 gallons $2.92 $2.92 $2.92 $2.92
 
   (C)   Rates include the elimination of the utility receipts tax as enacted
in House Enrolled Act 1002-2022.
   (D)   There is an administrative fee of $20 per invoice for bulk waster
invoices.
   (E)   Service fee.
Size of Meter 2022 2023 2024 2025
Size of Meter        2022    2023    2024    2025
5/8 - 3/4 inch meter $8.90   $8.90   $8.90   $8.90
1 inch meter         $13.70  $13.70  $13.70  $13.70
1-1/2 inch meter     $21.65  $21.65  $21.65  $21.65
2 inch meter         $31.25  $31.25  $31.25  $31.25
3 inch meter         $53.60  $53.60  $53.60  $53.60
4 inch meter         $85.55  $85.55  $85.55  $85.55
6 inch meter         $165.40 $165.40 $165.40 $165.40
8 inch meter         $261.20 $261.20 $261.20 $261.20
10 inch meter        $372.95 $372.95 $372.95 $372.95
12 inch meter        $692.30 $692.30 $692.30 $692.30
 
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-10-85; Am. Ord 1996-6, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2000-7,
passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 7-2008, passed 7-23-
08; Am. Ord. 09-2018, passed 11-14-18; Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 10-23-19; Am.
Ord. 2022-09, passed 6-8-22)
§ 51.02 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
    Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the following
applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will be entitled to the
quantity of water set out in the schedule.
Size of Meter Gallons Allowed Minimum Charge per Month (effective 11/14/18)
Size of Meter    Gallons Allowed Minimum Charge per Month (effective 11/14/
                                 18)
5/8 – 3/4 inch 3,000           $28.32
meter
1 inch meter     7,470           $62.56
1½ inch meter   14,960          $119.93
2 inch meter     23,910          $177.27
3 inch meter     44,870          $277.67
4 inch meter     77,870          $435.74
6 inch meter     150,000         $675.24
8 inch meter     240,000         $915.54
10 inch meter    345,000         $1,195.89
 
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-10-85; Am. Ord. 1996-6, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2000-
7, passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 7-2008, passed 7-
23-08; Am. Ord. 09-2018, passed 11-14-18)
§ 51.03 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   The annual cost of fire hydrant rental shall be:
 
                             2020    2021    2022    2023    2024     2025
Private hydrant rental - per $795.87 $795.87 $795.87 $795.87 $795.8 7 $795.8 7
annum
 
   (B)   (1)   The monthly rates for private fire protection shall be:
 
Connection Size    Rate Per Month
                   2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025
4 inch connection  $22.83  $22.83  $22.83  $22.83  $22.83  $22.83
6 inch connection  $66.32  $66.32  $66.32  $66.32  $66.32  $66.32
8 inch connection  $141.34 $141.34 $141.34 $141.34 $141.34 $141.34
10 inch connection $254.17 $254.17 $254.17 $254.17 $254.17 $254.17
 
      (2)   The monthly rates for public fire protection shall be:
Connection Size Rate Per Month
                2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Connection Size       Rate Per Month
                      2020    2021    2022      2023      2024      2025
5/8 - 3/4 inch        $6.45   $7.63   $8.81     $9.99     $11.17    $12.35
connection
1 inch connection     $16.13  $19.00  $22.00    $25.00    $28.00    $31.00
1-1/4 inch connection $25.80  $31.00  $35.00    $40.00    $45.00    $49.00
1-1/2 inch connection $32.25  $38.00  $44.00    $50.00    $56.00    $62.00
2 inch connection     $51.60  $61.00  $70.00    $80.00    $89.00    $99.00
3 inch connection     $96.75  $53.60  $132.00   $150.00   $168.00   $185.00
4 inch connection     $161.25 $85.55  $220.00   $250.00   $279.00   $309.00
6 inch connection     $322.50 $165.40 $441.00   $500.00   $559.00   $618.00
8 inch connection     $516.00 $261.20 $705.00   $799.00   $894.00   $988.00
10 inch connection    $741.75 $372.95 $1,013.00 $1,149.00 $1,285.00 $1,420.00
 
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-10-85; Am. Ord. 1996-6, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2000-
7, passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 7-2008, passed 7-
23-08; Am. Ord. 09-2018, passed 11-14-18; Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 10-23-19)
§ 51.04 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS.
   The annual charge for automatic sprinklers shall be based on the size (in
inches) of the connection.
§ 51.05 METER DEPOSIT; RECONNECTION FEE FOR DELINQUENT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The deposit for a meter shall be $50.
   (B)   Special handling charge after 60 days shall be $25.
   (C)   The charge for reconnection shall be $25.
   (D)   The charge for special meter reading shall be $20.
   (E)   The Clerk Treasurer is authorized by the Town Council to receipt the
meter deposit into the Water Operating Fund after six months of no contact from
the deposit owner.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-10-85; Am. Ord. 1996-6, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2000-
7, passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 7-2008, passed 7-
23-08; Am. Ord. 13-2012, passed 10-24-12; Am. Ord. 09-2018, passed 11-14-18;
Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 10-23-19)
§ 51.06 METER TAPS.
   (A)   Each user, at the time of connection with the waterworks system, shall
pay a charge to cover the costs of tapping the main, furnishing and laying
service pipe, corporation and stop cocks, service and meter box and
installation of the meter.
   (B)   The charge for a 5/8-inch or smaller meter tap shall be $250. The
charge for a tap larger than 5/8 inch will be $1,550.
   (C)   A water capacity fee per equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) is the sum of
$1,200.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-10-85; Am. Ord. 1996-6, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2000-
7, passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 2004-07, passed
12-29-04; Am. Ord. 7-2008, passed 7-23-08; Am. Ord. 09-2018, passed 11-14-18;
Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 10-23-19)
§ 51.07 CUSTOMER FAULT CHARGES.
   (A)   Requested service found to be a fault beyond the utility's
responsibility which is established at the point of metering shall be charged
according to whether it is done during a normal work shift or at a time other
than normal work shift.
   (B)   The fault charges set forth in division (A) above shall not apply to
frozen meters.
§ 51.08 CONNECTION CHARGE; RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Each user, at the time of connection with the waterworks system, shall
pay a charge to cover the costs of excavating and tapping the main, furnishing
and installing the service pipe from the main to the lot line, furnishing and
installing corporation and stop cocks, and furnishing and installing the meter
crock (if outside), yoke, and meter. The charge for a tap larger than the five-
eighths inch meter tap shall be $1,550.
   (B)   When the service is turned off for nonpayment of bill, or whenever for
any reason beyond the control of the waterworks a reestablishment of service is
required by any one customer, this charge will be made by the waterworks to
cover the cost of discontinuance and reestablishment of service. The charge,
together with any arrears due the waterworks, shall be paid by the customer
before service will be reestablished.
§ 51.09 LATE PAYMENT CHARGE.
   All bills for water service not paid within 17 days after the bill is mailed
shall be subject to a late payment charge of 10% of the amount billed.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-10-85; Am. Ord. 1996-6, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2004-
02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 7-2008, passed 7-23-08; Am. Ord. 09-2018, passed
11-14-18; Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 10-23-19)
§ 51.10 BAD CHECK CHARGE.
   The charge for a bad check shall be $30.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-10-85; Am. Ord. 1996-6, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2000-
7, passed 7-12-00; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 7-2008, passed 7-
23-08; Am. Ord. 09-2018, passed 11-14-18; Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 10-23-19)
§ 51.11 WATER METERS FOR BUSINESSES.
   A business that has a meter to measure water flow and a meter to measure
discharge into the town wastewater system can ask for an adjustment in the
utility bill for the actual amount discharged into the wastewater system based
on the discharge meter. The Clerk Treasurer shall make the adjustment and
maintain a record of the adjustment.
(Ord. 12-2012, passed 10-24-12)
§ 51.12 APPEALING DISCONNECT NOTICES.
   (A)   A person owing an unpaid water or sewer bill may appeal in writing to
the Clerk-Treasurer for an extension of the date when water service would
become subject to discontinuation, setting forth in detail the extraordinary
hardship or other unavoidable circumstances whereby the delinquent bill cannot
be fully paid within the allowed period. The Clerk-Treasurer, acting as the
Hearing Officer for the extension request, may grant or deny such request, in
whole or in part. The Hearing Officer may require partial payment of the
delinquent bill in return for granting an extension.
   (B)   (1)   A person owing an unpaid water or sewer bill may appeal the
determination of the Clerk-Treasurer in writing to the Town Council acting in
its capacity as the Governing Board of the Morristown Water Corporation. The
written appeal request shall set forth in detail:
         (a)   The extraordinary hardship or other unavoidable circumstances
whereby the delinquent bill cannot be fully paid within the allowed period;
         (b)   The specific relief requested; and
         (c)   The reason(s) that the person owing an unpaid water or sewer
bill believes that the adverse determination of the Clerk-Treasurer was
arbitrary or capricious.
      (2)   The Town Council shall consider such appeal at its next regularly
scheduled Town Council meeting. Any contemplated discontinuation of water
service shall be deferred pending the determination of the appeal by the Town
Council. The Town Council in its appeal determination may:
         (a)   Deny the appeal; or
         (b)   Grant the appeal in whole or in part; and
         (C)   May require partial payment of the delinquent bill in return for
granting an extension.
      (3)   Upon denial of the appeal the delinquent user shall be given 48
hours notice of the appeal denial prior to the discontinuation of water
service.
   (C)   Town Council further directs that a resolution be passed by the
Council specifically setting the forth the form of the notice contemplated by
the terms of this section, which notice shall be delivered pursuant to the
terms of this code to a person owing an unpaid water or sewer bill and whose
water service is subject to discontinuation.
(Ord. 09-2014, passed 8-13-14)
WATER METER RENTAL AND LARGE VOLUME WATER SALES
§ 51.20 NON-RESIDENT USER MUST CONTACT TOWN OFFICES BEFORE CONNECTING TO WATER
SUPPLY.
   Any person or entity that is a non-resident user must contact the town
offices or the General Manager before connecting to the town's water supply.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 3-10-10; Am. Ord. 7-2012, passed 7-11-12)
§ 51.21 WATER METER RENTAL FEE.
   (A)   Non-resident users must rent a water meter from the town prior to
connecting to the town's water supply. The rental fee for the water meter shall
be $100 per hook up each time they want to obtain water.
   (B)   Non-resident users/water transport/pool water must pay $100 per year
to gain access to water. The non-resident user/water transport/pool water would
pay the $100 to obtain a key to get meter access for that year. Keys can be
obtained from the Clerk Treasurer. Nonresident users/water transport/pool water
must use the designated hydrant set forth by the town. Each company is
responsible for recording the amount of water they obtain.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 3-10-10; Am. Ord. 7-2012, passed 7-11-12)
§ 51.22 BILLING.
   (A)   Within ten days of the non-resident user returning the meter, the town
will submit an invoice to the non-resident user for the amount of the water
used. The non-resident user will be billed according to the prevailing rate.
   (B)   The non-resident user/water transport/pool water will be billed
monthly according to the prevailing rate.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 3-10-10; Am. Ord. 7-2012, passed 7-11-12)
§ 51.23 PENALTY FEE FOR FAILURE TO NOTIFY TOWN AND RENT METER.
   If a non-resident user fails to notify the town and/or rent the meter, the
nonresident user will be billed for an estimated amount of water taken plus a
$750 penalty fee (“invoiced amount”).
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 3-10-10; Am. Ord. 7-2012, passed 7-11-12)
§ 51.24 CIVIL ACTION FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   If the non-resident user fails to pay the invoiced amount, the town may
pursue a civil action against the non-resident user, including costs and
attorney fees.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 3-10-10; Am. Ord. 7-2012, passed 7-11-12)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   BICYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
76.   GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Application
   
70.03   Purpose
   
70.04   Definitions
   
70.05   Enforcement by Town Marshal
   
70.06   Authority of Police and Fire Department personnel
   
70.07   Obedience to traffic code required
   
70.08   Application to persons propelling pushcarts, riding animals
   
70.09   Public employees to obey traffic code regulations
   
70.10   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.11   Motor vehicle inspection; fee
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Authority to install
   
70.21   Manual and specifications
   
70.22   Designation of crosswalks
   
70.23   Designation of traffic lanes
   
70.24   Emergency devices
   
70.25   When required for enforcement purposes
   
70.26   Presumption of legality
   
70.27   Interference with devices prohibited
Traffic Accidents
   
70.35   Written reports of accidents required
   
70.36   When driver unable to report
   
70.37   Reports are confidential
   
70.38   Town Marshal to keep files of accident reports
   
70.39   Annual traffic safety report
Violations
   
70.50   Records of traffic violations
   
70.51   Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures
   
70.52   Town Attorney to prosecute violators
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the town Traffic Code.
§ 70.02 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and municipally
operated property, except where a different place is specifically referred to
in a given section.
§ 70.03 PURPOSE.
   This traffic code shall be interpreted and construed as to effect its
general purpose to make uniform the laws of the town.
§ 70.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A street intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of through
vehicular traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
      (1)   Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles, and ambulances
and other emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals, or health and
hospital corporations under IC 16-22-8.
      (2)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under IC 9-21-20-1.
      (3)   Motor vehicles that, subject to IC 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a) Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in IC 16-18-2-110).
      (4)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to IC 9-21-
20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(IC 9-13-2-6)
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, regardless of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 500 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   CROSSWALK. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. Any portion of a roadway, at an intersection or
elsewhere, distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   HOLIDAY. The following days of the year shall be designated as holidays: The
first day of January (commonly known as New Year's Day); the last Monday of May
(commonly known as Memorial Day); July 4 (commonly known as Independence Day);
the first Monday of September (commonly known as Labor Day); the fourth
Thursday of November (commonly known as Thanksgiving Day); and December 25
(commonly known as Christmas Day).
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict. The junction of any alley with a street shall
not constitute an INTERSECTION.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   OFFICER or POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Standard time or daylight-saving time, as may be in
current use in the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
including railroad advance warning signs, not inconsistent with this traffic
code, placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PARKING SPACE or PARKING PLACE. A designated portion of the surface of a
street of sufficient length and depth to accommodate a vehicle of reasonable
dimensions to be parked. The designated portion shall be specified and marked
off as provided in this traffic code.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district, when the property on such highway for a
distance of 500 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STATE LAW. Indiana laws regulating and relating to motor vehicles and their
operation.
   STOP or STOPPING. Complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, STOP
means any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TOWN COUNCIL. A simple majority vote of the Town Council of the town.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(IC 9-13-1-1 et seq.)
§ 70.06 ENFORCEMENT BY TOWN MARSHAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal and deputies to enforce the street
traffic regulations of this town and all of the state laws, make arrests for
traffic violations, assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of this chapter, investigate accidents, cooperate with officials of
the town in administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions, and carry out those duties specially imposed upon
the Town Marshal and deputies by the traffic ordinances of this town and state
law.
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Town Marshal and deputies, or such deputies as are assigned by the
Town Marshal, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, the Town Marshal and
deputies may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct traffic in the immediate vicinity of a fire or fire equipment. If the
Town Marshal or a deputy is at the scene of a fire, officers of the Fire
Department shall not contradict the actions of the Town Marshal or deputy as
they relate to traffic.
   (C)   School crossing guards are authorized to direct traffic at a
designated school crossing during periods of arrival or departure of school
children.
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful and a violation for any person to do any act forbidden, or
fail to perform any act required, in this chapter. Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 APPLICATION TO PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS, RIDING ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling a pushcart, riding an animal, or driving any animal-
drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
chapter, except those provisions which by their very nature can have no
application.
§ 70.09 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state, or any political
subdivision of the state, subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth
in this traffic code or in the state vehicle code with reference to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(IC 9-21-1-6)
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and other equipment while
actually engaged in work on the surface of a highway, but shall apply to such
persons and vehicles when traveling to or from work.
(IC 9-21-1-7)
§ 70.10 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise
the privileges set forth in this chapter, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, regardless of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property are not
endangered;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the vehicle is making use of audible or visual signals meeting
the requirements of law. An authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red or blue light visible from
in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall they protect the driver from the consequences of his or her
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(IC 9-21-1-8)
§ 70.11 MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTION; FEE.
   (A)   IC 9-29-4-2 provides a fee may be charged by a law enforcement agency
for the inspection of a motor vehicle required under IC 9-17-2-12.
   (B)   That fee shall be $5 per inspection of each vehicle or title and that
those fees shall be deposited in a special vehicle inspection fund. The special
vehicle inspection fund is hereby created and the Town Clerk-Treasurer is
hereby designated to establish that fund. The Town Council shall appropriate
the fees collected in the fund only for law enforcement purposes either at the
request of the Chief of Police or the Council. That appropriation for a
specific law enforcement purpose shall be made solely at the discretion of the
Council.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Town Council shall place and maintain official traffic-control devices
when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this town to make
effective the provisions of the ordinances. It may deem necessary to regulate,
warn, or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of this town or the state
vehicle laws.
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic-control devices, see IC 9-21-4-3
§ 70.21 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices to be installed after the
effective date of this chapter shall conform to the then current Indiana Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall be uniform as to type
and location through the town. All traffic-control devices so erected, and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this traffic code, shall be
official traffic-control devices.
Statutory reference:
   State to adopt traffic-devices manual, see IC 9-21-4-1
§ 70.22 DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to designate and maintain, by
appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon the surface of the roadway,
crosswalks at intersections, where in its opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at other places as it may deem
necessary.
§ 70.23 DESIGNATION OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway
of any street or highway under the jurisdiction of the town.
§ 70.24 EMERGENCY DEVICES.
   The Town Marshal is authorized to temporarily place official traffic-control
devices when required by an emergency. The Marshal shall notify the President
of the Town Council of his or her actions as soon thereafter as is practicable.
The official traffic-control devices shall not remain longer than 30 days
unless authorized by the Council.
§ 70.25 WHEN REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this chapter for which official traffic-control devices are
required shall be enforced if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official device is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not
state that official traffic-control devices are required, the section shall be
effective even though no devices are in place.
§ 70.26 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in positions
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter the devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, and shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
§ 70.27 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
damage, or remove any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal. Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS
§ 70.35 WRITTEN REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person, or apparent property damage to an apparent extent of $750
or more shall, within ten days after the accident, forward a written report of
it to the Town Marshal, unless the accident was investigated immediately by the
Town Marshal or deputy. Penalty, see §
70.99 Statutory reference:
Statutory reference:
   Written reports required in accidents involving injury or death, see IC 9-
26-1-1
   Written reports required in accidents involving property damage, see IC 9-
26-1-2
   Authority of municipalities to require accident reports, see IC 9-26-3
§ 70.36 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate or a written report of an accident as required in §
70.35, and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the
accident capable of making such a report, the occupant shall make or cause to
be made the report not made by the driver. If there was no other occupant and
if the driver is not the owner of the vehicle, the owner of the vehicle
involved in the accident shall, within five days after the accident, make the
report not made by the driver.
(IC 9-26-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 REPORTS ARE CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   This section does not apply to accident reports filed by a law
enforcement officer.
   (B)   All written accident reports made by drivers or owners of vehicles
involved in accidents, as required in §
70.35, shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting, and shall be
for the confidential use of the Town Marshal's Office or other governmental
agencies having use of the records for accident prevention purposes. However,
the Marshal may disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when
the identity is not otherwise known, or when the person denies his or her
presence at the accident. No report shall be used as evidence in any trial,
civil or criminal, arising out of any accident, except the Marshal shall
furnish upon demand of any person who has, or claims to have, made a report or,
upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a specified accident
report has or has not been made to the Marshal, solely to prove a compliance or
a failure to comply with the requirements that such a report be made.
(IC 9-26-3-4)
§ 70.38 TOWN MARSHAL TO KEEP FILES OF ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Town Marshal's Office shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports.
§ 70.39 ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   The Town Marshal's Office shall annually prepare a traffic report which
shall be filed with the Town Council. The report shall contain information on
traffic matters in this town as follows:
   (A)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
   (B)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the Marshal's Office; and
   (C)   Any plans and recommendations of the Marshal for future traffic safety
activities.
VIOLATIONS
§ 70.50 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal's Office shall keep a record of all violations of the
traffic ordinances of this town or of the state vehicle laws of which any
person has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all
such alleged offenses. This record shall be maintained so as to show all types
of violations and the total of each. This record shall accumulate during at
least a five-year period and from that time on the record shall be maintained
complete for at least the most recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   (C)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
§ 70.51 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   (A)   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the
forfeiture of bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this traffic code shall be paid into the town treasury and
deposited in the General Fund.
   (B)   Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of any judicial or other
officer or employee receiving or having custody of any such fine or forfeiture,
either before or after a deposit in the General Fund, to comply with the
foregoing provisions of this section shall constitute misconduct in office and
shall be grounds for removal therefrom.
§ 70.52 TOWN ATTORNEY TO PROSECUTE VIOLATORS.
   The Town Attorney or the Attorney's duly appointed deputy is authorized to
prosecute all charges of violation of this chapter.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $100. Upon conviction of a third or subsequent offense
committed within one year after the date of the first offense, the penalty
shall be a fine of not more than $1,000.
   (B)   In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the
person so charged may pay within five days to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the
benefit of the General Fund of the town, the sum of $25 for the first or second
offense committed within one year.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Coasters, roller skates, and the like; use on streets
   
71.02   Entering intersection without sufficient space on other side prohibited
   
71.03   Boarding, alighting from vehicle
   
71.04   Unlawful riding
   
71.05   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.06   Containment of loads required
Speed Limits
   
71.15   State speed laws applicable
   
71.16   Speed limits in alleys
Turning Movements
   
71.30   Authority to regulate with official traffic-control devices
   
71.31   U-turns
Stop and Yield Intersections
   
71.40   Designation of stop and yield intersections
   
71.41   Vehicle entering street from alley
Funeral and Other Processions
   
71.50   Drivers in procession
   
71.51   When permit required
   
71.52   Town Marshal to designate method of identifying funeral processions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND THE LIKE; USE ON STREETS.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, sled,
toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk. When so crossing, the person shall be granted all of the
rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 71.02 ENTERING INTERSECTION WITHOUT SUFFICIENT SPACE ON OTHER SIDE
PROHIBITED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 BOARDING, ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while that vehicle is in
motion.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle on any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle on a sidewalk or sidewalk area, except on
a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 CONTAINMENT OF LOADS REQUIRED.
   Any person hauling stone, oil, rubbish or any other material shall see that
the vehicle is of adequate dimensions and tight, so no material shall fall from
the vehicle. Any material falling from a vehicle shall be promptly removed from
the street by the driver, who shall be responsible for any damage done.
Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.15 STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within this town, except as this traffic code, as authorized
by state law, declares and determines upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation, that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas. In that event, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so determined,
when signs are in place giving notice thereof. 
Penalty, see §
70.99 
Cross-reference;
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 74, Sch. III
Statutory reference:
   Authority to alter state speed limits, see IC 9-21-5-6
§ 71.16 SPEED LIMITS IN ALLEYS.
   For speed limit regulations pertaining to alleys, see
Ch. 74, Sch. III
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.30 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Town Council is authorized to place official traffic-control devices,
within or adjacent to intersections, indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at those intersections. The course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
Penalty, see §
70.99 
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles at intersections,
see IC 5-21-1-3
§ 71.31 U-TURNS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn that vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district.
Penalty, see §
70.99
STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS
§ 71.40 DESIGNATION OF STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The Town Council is authorized to determine and designate intersections
where a particular hazard exists and to determine whether vehicles shall stop
at one or more entrances to such an intersection (in which event the Council
shall have erected a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required);
or whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different
street at such an intersection, in obedience thereto as required.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish stop, yield intersections, see IC 9-21-1-3
§ 71.41 VEHICLE ENTERING STREET FROM ALLEY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter a street from an alley shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians approaching on the street.
Penalty, see §
70.99
FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS
§ 71.50 DRIVERS IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practicable and safe.
Penalty, see §
70.99 
Statutory reference:
   Funeral processions, see IC 9-21-13-1 et seq.
§ 71.51 WHEN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No procession or parade except funeral processions, the United States Armed
Forces, the military forces of this state and the forces of the Police and Fire
Departments shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street, except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Town Marshal's Office and such other
regulations as are set forth which may apply.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.52 TOWN MARSHAL TO DESIGNATE METHOD OF IDENTIFYING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   The Town Marshal shall determine the method of identification for funeral
processions as required by IC 9-21-13-5.
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
Parking Prohibitions
   
72.01   Parking so as to obstruct traffic prohibited
   
72.02   Parking in alleys
   
72.03   Parking for purposes of display or repair
   
72.04   Disobedience to parking signs prohibited
   
72.05   Stopping or parking in lane of traffic
   
72.06   Stopping, parking on other than road or shoulder prohibited
   
72.07   Parking or standing in loading zones
   
72.08   Parking of buses or trucks in residential or business districts
   
72.09   Hazardous or congested places designated as no parking zones
Bus Stops; Taxi Stands
   
72.20   Town to designate location
   
72.21   Unauthorized use of bus stop or taxi stand
   
72.22   Use of bus stop by bus
Violations
   
72.30   Removal of illegally parked vehicle
   
72.31   Citation of illegally parked vehicle
   
72.32   Presumption that vehicle is illegally parked
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate stopping, standing, and parking, see IC 9-21-1-3
PARKING PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.01 PARKING SO AS TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand,
or park the vehicle in any alley for a period of time longer than is necessary
for the loading or unloading of passengers or freight. No vehicle shall stand
or park in any alley for any such purpose so as to leave available less than
eight feet of the width of the alley for the free movement of traffic, or if
less than eight feet of width of the alley is available, the operator of the
parked or standing vehicle shall immediately move it upon the approach of
another vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle on a street in any
manner which would restrict full access to any alley.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING FOR PURPOSES OF DISPLAY1 OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of
displaying the vehicle for sale, or for greasing or repairing the vehicle,
except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 DISOBEDIENCE TO PARKING SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   At locations officially signed or marked for parking on the streets or in
municipal parking lots, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than
within any markings and at the orientation indicated by such signs or markings.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 STOPPING OR PARKING IN LANE OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a lane of traffic not
designed for parking unless directed to do so by a Police Officer or official
traffic-control device, unless waiting to enter a parking space, or unless
necessitated by mechanical failure.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 STOPPING, PARKING ON OTHER THAN ROAD OR SHOULDER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on a street other than on the
roadway or paved shoulder.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING OR STANDING IN LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time, other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers or
materials, in any place marked as a loading zone during hours and days when the
regulations applicable to that curb loading zone are effective, and then only
for a period not to exceed three minutes for passengers or 20 minutes for
materials.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING OF BUSES OR TRUCKS IN RESIDENTIAL OR BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Residential districts. No person owning, leasing, possessing or
operating a truck, trailer, bus, tractor, or tractor and trailer, which is
taller, wider, and longer than a conventional station wagon, pickup truck, or
van, except a bus used for school purposes in a bus zone, shall be permitted to
park the same upon any street or alley within the residential district of the
corporate limits of the town. However, the vehicles may be parked for a
sufficient time to make deliveries or pick up merchandise, provided such
parking does not interrupt the regular flow of traffic and does not create a
hazard for the safety of others.
   (B)   Business districts. In the business district, no truck, bus or
recreational vehicle which is taller, wider and longer than a conventional
station wagon or pick-up truck shall park upon any street or alley within the
corporate limits of the town longer than one hour. However, the vehicles may be
parked for a sufficient time to make deliveries or pick up merchandise in the
regular course of business, provided the parking does not interrupt the regular
flow of traffic does not create a hazard for the safety of others and provided
complies with all other parking regulations in force in the town.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) or (B) above, a truck
or bus may be parked upon a street in a business or residential district after
obtaining written permission from the Town Marshal, which shall stipulate the
location and length of time the vehicle may be parked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES DESIGNATED AS NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The Town Marshall is authorized to determine and designate, by proper
signs and other markings, places not exceeding 75 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition, or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs and markings are erected at hazardous or congested
places, as authorized by division (A) above, persons shall not stop, stand, or
park vehicles in such designated places.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-8-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
BUS STOPS; TAXI STANDS
§ 72.20 TOWN TO DESIGNATE LOCATION.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to establish bus stops and taxi stands
on public streets, in places and numbers as they shall determine to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every bus stop or taxi stand
shall be designated by appropriate signs.
§ 72.21 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF BUS STOP OR TAXI STAND.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop or
other than a taxi in a taxi stand when such stops have been officially
designated and appropriately signed. However, the driver of a passenger vehicle
may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxi entering, occupying or departing that stop.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 USE OF BUS STOP BY BUS.
   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in such a
manner that the bus, when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage,
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the vehicle not farther
than 18 inches from the curb. The bus shall be approximately parallel to the
curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
Penalty, §
72.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.30 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any Police Officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of any provision of this chapter, the officer is hereby authorized to
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to remove it to a
position off the paved, improved, or main-traveled part of the street. However,
if any person so directed shall fail or refuse to move the vehicle or if the
vehicle is unattended, the Officer is hereby authorized to provide for the
removal of the vehicle to the nearest available garage or other place of
safety.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to remove illegally parked vehicles, see IC 9-21-16-3
§ 72.31 CITATION OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked, standing,
or stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of the
town or by state law, the officer finding the vehicle shall take its
registration number; take any other information displayed on the vehicle which
may identify its user; and conspicuously affix to the vehicle a traffic
citation on a form provided by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, for the driver to
answer to the charge against him within five days, during the hours and at a
place specified in the citation.
   (B)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking
under the traffic laws does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to his motor vehicle within a period of five days, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was
affixed a letter informing him or her of the violation and warning that, in the
event the letter is disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant of arrest
will be issued.
§ 72.32 PRESUMPTION THAT VEHICLE IS ILLEGALLY PARKED.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law governing the standing or
parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the
complaint was parked in violation of any such law together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of the parking, the
registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked
or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, the
violation occurred.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $100. In lieu of appearing before a court of competent
jurisdiction, the person so charged may pay, within five days to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer for the benefit of the General Fund of the town, the sum of
$10.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
72.09 shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First violation: $100;
      (2)   Second violation: $200;
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations: $500 per violation.
(Am. Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-8-23)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Responsibility of parent or guardian
   
73.02   Application of regulations
   
73.03   Parking
   
73.04   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.05   Riding on roadways or bicycle paths
   
73.06   License and license tags
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit that child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter applicable to bicycles shall apply
whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
   (B)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this title, except as set forth in special regulations in this
chapter, and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which, by their
nature, can have no application.
§ 73.03 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic or in a bicycle rack provided to support the
bicycle. No bicycle shall be parked upon the sidewalk against a building, laid
down upon the sidewalk, or parked against or secured to any fire hydrant.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS OR BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use that path and shall not use the roadway.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 LICENSE AND LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   No person who resides within the town shall ride or propel a bicycle
on any street or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles unless the bicycle has been licensed and a license tag is attached
thereto as provided herein.
   (B)   Application for a bicycle license and license tag shall be made upon a
form provided by the town and shall be made to the Town Marshal. The license
tag shall be a permanent tag and a fee of $1 shall be paid to the town before
each license is granted.
   (C)   If any license and tag issued under this chapter is lost, stolen or
removed from any bicycle, a replacement license or tag may be issued after
making application therefor to the Marshal. Application for a replacement
license shall also be filed within ten days of the time ownership of the
bicycle is transferred. The replacement license shall be $1 and paid to the
town before the replacement license is issued.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $10, by impounding of such person's
bicycle for a period not to exceed 30 days, or by any combination thereof. In
lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the person so
charged may pay within five days to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the benefit of
the General Fund of the town, the sum of $2.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets or alleys are designated as one-way streets and
drivers of vehicles thereon shall move in one direction when signs are erected
giving notice of such designation.
 
Street           Location                       Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
N. Midway Street From East Main Street to North North     164-76   5-24-76
                 Street
S. Midway Street From East Main Street to East  South     164-76   5-24-76
                 South Street
 
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Upon conviction of the violation of any provision of this schedule,
violators shall be fined in any amount not exceeding the sum of $100 for each
occurrence or violation; and the noncompliance with each portion of requirement
of this schedule shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In lieu of any person violating a provision of this schedule being
charged for such violation in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
penalties described in this schedule, in the discretion of the law enforcement
officer, Town Marshal, Deputy Marshal or police officer making such charge of
violation of this schedule, the person so charged may pay within 72 hours the
sum of $25 to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the benefit of the General Fund of
the town. The Town Marshal, Deputy Marshal, law enforcement officer or police
officer making such charge of violation of this schedule shall make such
decision as to the option to pay the sum for the benefit of the General Fund of
the town, in his sole and absolute discretion, and shall inform such person
violating this schedule in writing of said decision. Unless the decision to
allow the payment of the sum of $25 to the General Fund of the town shall be
made in writing as aforesaid and conveyed to the person violating the schedule
in such manner, then the person so charged with the violation of this schedule
shall be prosecuted in a court of competent jurisdiction for violation of this
schedule in the normal manner for prosecution of misdemeanors.
      (3)   If after receipt of such written notice of the right to make a $25
payment to the General Fund of the town in lieu of prosecution, the charged
party fails to make payment of said $25 sum within the 72-hour period, then at
the option of the Town Marshal or other authorized person, the prosecution of
the charged person shall proceed as in the normal prosecution of misdemeanors.
In the discretion of the Town Marshal or other authorized person on behalf of
the town, the charged party may be required to pay the sum of $25 immediately
upon his being informed of the violation of this schedule instead of being
granted the period of 72 hours to make payment.
      (4)   The town shall not be limited in pursuing any civil remedy for
eliminating or stopping the violation of any provisions of this schedule.
(Ord. 164-76, passed 5-24-76)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A) The following intersections are designated as stop intersections, and
when signs are erected giving notice thereof drivers of vehicles shall stop
before entering the intersections from certain directions as follows.
Street At Intersection With Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                 At Intersection With   Direction   Ord. No. Date Passed
W. Broadway Street     N. Rigdon Street       West        164-76   5-24-76
Chestnut Street        S. Washington Street   West        164-76   5-24-76
W. Fletcher Street     S. Washington Street   West        164-76   5-24-76
Harper Street          E. South Street        North/south 164-76   5-24-76
High Street            E. North Street        South       164-76   5-24-76
N. Jackson Street      E. North Street        North       164-76   5-24-76
S. Jackson Street      E. Johnson Street      South       164-76   5-24-76
S. Jackson Street      E. South Street        North/south 164-76   5-24-76
E. Johnson Street      Harper Street          East        164-76   5-24-76
W. Johnson Street      S. Patterson Street    West        164-76   5-24-76
W. Johnson Street      S. Washington Street   East/west   164-76   5-24-76
                       Alley running east and
N. Midway Street       west between N.        North       164-76   5-24-76
                       Washington Street and
                       N. Poplar Street
N. Midway Street       Broadway Street        North       164-76   5-24-76
N. Midway Street       North Street           North/south 164-76   5-24-76
S. Midway Street       Chestnut Street        South       164-76   5-24-76
S. Midway Street       E. South Street        North/south 164-76   5-24-76
W. North Street        Asbury Road            West        164-76   5-24-76
W. North Street        N. Washington Street   East/west   164-76   5-24-76
Oak Street             W. Johnson Street      North       164-76   5-24-76
N. Patterson Street    W. Broadway Street     North       164-76   5-24-76
N. Poplar Street       E. North Street        North/south 164-76   5-24-76
                       Right-of-way of
N. Poplar Street       Baltimore & Ohio       North       164-76   5-24-76
                       Railroad
S. Poplar Street       E. South Street        South       164-76   5-24-76
N. Rigdon Street       W. Broadway Street     North       164-76   5-24-76
E. South Street        Harper Street          East        164-76   5-24-76
W. South Street        S. Patterson Street    West        164-76   5-24-76
W. South Street        S. Washington Street   East/west   164-76   5-24-76
St. No. 1 or County    Right-of-way of
Road 450 E.            Baltimore & Ohio       North/south 164-76   5-24-76
                       Railroad
St. No. 1              E. North Street        South       164-76   5-24-76
N. Washington Street   W. Broadway Street     North       164-76   5-24-76
Alley running east and
west between E. Main   S. Midway Street       East/west   164-76   5-24-76
Street and E. South
Street
Alley running east and
west between N.        N. Midway Street       West        164-76   5-24-76
Washington Street and
N. Poplar Street
 
   (B)   The following intersections are designated as four-way stop
intersections and all vehicles shall stop before entering the intersection from
all four directions.
 
Street              At Intersection With                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Harper Street       Alley running east and west between E. 164-76   5-24-76
                    Main Street and E. South Street
S. Midway Street    Fletcher Street                        164-76   5-24-76
S. Midway Street    E. Johnson Street                      164-76   5-24-76
N. Patterson Street W. North Street                        164-76   5-24-76
N. Rigdon Street    W. North Street                        164-76   5-24-76
 
(Am. Ord. 2004-06, passed 10-13–04) Penalty, see
Ch. 74, Sch. I (B)
   (C)   (1)   The following intersections are designated as three-way stop
intersections and all vehicles shall stop before entering the intersection from
all three directions.
 
Street       At Intersection With Ord. No. Date Passed
South Street Poplar Street        2022-18  12-28-22
 
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-1-4, violation of Chapter 74, Schedule II(C)
shall constitute a Class C infraction.
(Ord. 2022-18, passed 12-28-22)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle of any type upon the following streets
and alleys in excess of the following rates of speed.
Street Speed (m.p.h.) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                                     Speed (m.p.h.) Ord. No. Date Passed
Asbury Road                                30             164-76   5-24-76
Central Parkway from east Industrial Drive 30             17-2014  10-22-14
to Range Line Road
Industrial Drive                           20             3-2010   5-26-10
Main Street                                30             164-76   5-24-76
S. Patterson Street                        10             164-76   5-24-76
Range Line Road                            40             164-76   5-24-76
(County Rd. 500E)
Washington Street south from Hanover Drive 40             2005-02  2-9-05
to the city limits
S. Washington Street                       30             164-76   5-24-76
 
   (B)   No motor vehicle traveling upon Midway Street or any alley in the town
shall be driven at a greater rate of speed than ten miles per hour.
   (C)   No motor vehicle shall be driven at a greater rate of speed than 20
miles per hour on any other street in the town not specifically provided for in
division (A) above.
   (D)   The speed limit from Washington Street and U.S. 52 to Gordon’s ditch
shall be 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   The speed limit from Gordon’s Ditch to Morristown’s municipal
boundaries shall be 30 miles per hour.
(Ord. 164-76, passed 5-24-76; Am. Ord. 4-2009, passed 2-25-09) Penalty, see Ch.
74, Sch. I (B)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
II.   Limited parking
SCHEDULE I. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow a vehicle to stop, stand or park on the
following portions or parts of streets or alleys in the town.
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Location                 Side          Ord. No. Date Passed
Industrial Drive    From the railroad tracks East and west 2021-1   2-10-21
                    to the curve
N. Midway Street    From East Main Street to              164-76   5-24-76
                    North Street
S. Midway Street    From East Main Street to              164-76   5-24-76
                    East South Street
Patterson Street    From U.S. 52 to Johnson  East          2004-04  3-10-04
                    Street
                    From its intersection
                    with West North Street
Rigdon Street       north to the right-of-                164-76   5-24-76
                    way of the Baltimore &
                    Ohio Railroad
                    20 feet on both sides of
                    the center point of the
                    entranceway (a total of
E. South Street     40 feet) of the nursing  South         164-76   5-24-76
                    home or convalescent
                    center between South
                    Washington Street and
                    South Midway Street
                    Within 220 feet of the
                    stop sign on the
South Street        northeast corner of its               2023-04  3-8-23
                    intersection with Poplar
                    Street
                    From the intersection
                    with the Baltimore &
St. No. 1 or County Ohio Railroad track                   164-76   5-24-76
Road 450 E.         north to the present
                    corporate limits of the
                    town
 
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person who violates the above parking prohibition on Industrial
Drive set forth in Ord. 2021-1 shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First violation: $100.
         (b)   Second violation: $200.
         (c)   Third and more violations: $500 per violation.
      (2)   Any person who violates any other parking prohibition set forth in
the above table shall be subject to the penalty set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I(B).
(Am. Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-24-21)
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall cause or allow a vehicle to stop, stand or park on the
following portions or parts of streets during the times shown.
 
Street           Location            Time                 Ord. No. Date Passed
                 Extending from the
                 center line of U.S.
                 Highway 52, or Main From 5:00 a.m. to 6:
North Washington Street, 100 feet    00 p.m., Monday      1991-2   12-9-91
                 measured northerly  through Friday
                 along the center
                 line of North
                 Washington Street
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 74, Sch. I (B)
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Operation of a golf cart or UTV
   
76.03   Operator
   
76.04   Financial responsibility
   
76.05   Slow moving vehicle sign
   
76.06   Operation at night
   
76.07   Occupants
   
76.08   Traffic rules
   
76.09   Registration
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by the
State of Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart or
utility task vehicle in an amount not less than that required by state law for
motor vehicles operated on public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels, originally designed for operation on
a golf course, and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (“UTV”). A motorized vehicle, with not less than four
non-highway tires, that is limited in engine displacement to less than 1,500
cubic centimeters, and in total highway dry weight to not more than 2,000
pounds, and that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design not intended to
be straddled by the operator, a steering wheel, or control levers for control,
and is equipped with a bed or cargo box for hauling materials. Vehicles
designed for the primary purpose of recreation are also included. Vehicles such
as dune buggies, not registered as road legal motor vehicles, shall not fit
this definition and are not allowed under this section. The Chief of Police
shall have the final say on whether a vehicle meets this definition. The
definition of a UTV shall not be construed to include an  all-terrain vehicle
(“ATV”) as currently defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7. No individual shall be allowed
to use, operate, drive, or park an ATV on the streets, alleys, and properties
under the jurisdiction of the town under this chapter.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.02 OPERATION OF A GOLF CART OR UTV.
   The operation of a golf cart or UTV within the town's municipal boundaries
is strictly prohibited unless the golf cart or UTV is operated and equipped in
full compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 OPERATOR.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s license may
operate a golf cart or UTV.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The financial ability of the operator or owner notwithstanding, the operator
of a golf cart or UTV must show financial responsibility when operating a golf
cart or UTV. Written proof of financial responsibility must be available either
on the golf cart or UTV or carried by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   The backs of all golf carts and UTVs must display a slow moving vehicle sign
of the same type required under state law.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 OPERATION AT NIGHT.
   Golf carts and UTVs shall not be operated from one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart or UTV shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart
or UTV. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart or UTV.
No part of the body of the operator or an occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart or UTV while it is being operated.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.08 TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart or UTV shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town that govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.09 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV without valid registration
with the town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall make forms available for the
registration of golf carts or UTVs, and shall collect all fees for
registration. The registration fee shall be $75 every three years. Each
registration shall last from January 1 of the first year to December 31 of the
third year, and shall not be prorated for portions of a year already lapsed.
   (B)   The following steps are also required for the registration of a golf
cart or UTV with the Town Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   Prior to registration, the golf cart or UTV must have been
inspected by the Town Police Chief, or his or her deputy, to ensure it complies
with the equipment requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   At the time of registration, the owner of the golf cart or UTV
shall present proof of insurance for the golf cart or UTV. The insurance must
be maintained on the golf cart or UTV for as long as it is operated on streets,
alleys, and properties under the jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of
the Morristown Code. An owner, lessee, or operator may be cited to appear in a
court of competent jurisdiction through the issuance of an Indiana Uniform
Traffic Ticket. Upon a finding by the court that any provision of this chapter
has been violated, the owner, lessee, or operator of a golf cart or UTV shall
be subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for each offense, along with court
costs in the amount that now exists or may hereafter be determined by ordinance
or statute. If the violator makes payment within 72 hours, the fine shall not
exceed $150.
(Ord. 15-2022, passed 11-9-22)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   CEMETERIES
      
94.   GARBAGE AND TRASH REGULATIONS
      
95.   NOISE CONTROL
      
96.   NUISANCE SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION, ILLEGAL DUMPING AND LITTERING
      
97.   OPEN BURNING
      
98.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
99.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
100.   WEEDS AND TREES
      
101.   FAIR HOUSING
      
102.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
103.   NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
      
104.   SMALL CELL AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
      
105.   LANDLORD REGISTRATION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
Removal and Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.01   Authority
   
90.02   Towing
   
90.03   Storage
   
90.04   Disposal; public sale
REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.01 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to IC 9-22-1-30 to establish procedures
to carry out the provisions of IC 9-22-1-30 for the town.
(Ord. 1988-04, passed 12-21-88)
§ 90.02 TOWING.
   The charge for towing an abandoned vehicle or parts of an abandoned vehicle
to the storage area shall be the sum of $35 plus a towing charge of $1.25 per
mile to the storage area, provided that such vehicle or parts thereof is of a
type which is normally towed by a conventional tow truck. In the event the
vehicle or parts thereof are of a type which is not normally towed by a
customary tow truck, then the cost shall be such reasonable cost which is
actually incurred by the town in the towing of such vehicle.
(Ord. 1988-04, passed 12-21-88)
§ 90.03 STORAGE.
   The charge for storage of abandoned vehicles under IC 9-22-1-30 shall be the
sum of $6 per day or part thereof that the abandoned vehicle or parts thereof
shall be in the storage area. In the event that the abandoned vehicle is of a
size larger than the standard passenger automobile, then the foregoing charge
shall be increased proportionately to the difference in size, determined in the
reasonable discretion of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1988-04, passed 12-21-88)
§ 90.04 DISPOSAL; PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   The public agency set forth and described under IC 9-22-1-3 to dispose
of abandoned vehicles and to conduct such other functions as prescribed for the
"Public Agency" under that section shall be the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The
Clerk-Treasurer is further authorized to dispose of abandoned vehicles or parts
thereof to the highest bidder at public sale after notice under IC 5-3-1,
except only one newspaper insertion at least one week before the public sale is
required.
   (B)   (1)   The abandoned vehicle or part thereof may be disposed of in
accordance with IC 36-1-11, except that the 15-day period for the property to
remain unclaimed is sufficient. The Clerk-Treasurer shall also give notice of
such sale by first class mail to the last known address of the owner, if any,
placing the same in the United States mail at least six days before the date of
sale.
      (2)    At such sale, the Clerk-Treasurer may require that a minimum bid
be equal to the removal and storage cost and cost of sale, if the Clerk-
Treasurer reasonably deems that the value of the vehicle being disposed of is
in excess of such costs. The Clerk-Treasurer may also set other terms of the
sale.
(Ord. 1988-04, passed 12-21-88)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Testing of alarm device
   
91.03   Automatic voice dialers prohibited
   
91.04   Automatic shut-off required
   
91.05   Connection to central answering point
   
91.06   Disconnection and reconnection to central answering point
   
91.07   False alarm service charge
   
91.08   Misuse of alarm system
   
91.09   Reservation of rights
   
91.10   Enforcement of ordinance
   
91.11   Disposition of fees and charges
   
91.12   Appeals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ALARM AGENT. The business, firm, corporation or partnership designated and
employed by the Alarm Board on behalf of the police to maintain, service,
alter, repair, replace, move or connect any burglar or other alarm to the
monitoring equipment and related paraphernalia to be maintained by the police
at the central answering point.
   ALARM BOARD. The Board which performs the duties herein set out. The members
of such Board shall include the Town Marshal, who shall be the Chairman of the
Board, and three other members appointed at the pleasure of the Town Council.
The Board shall meet at such time as the Town Marshal shall designate and shall
perform the following duties:
      (1)   Acquire information to determine the effectiveness of this chapter.
      (2)   Promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement
and carry out the intent of this chapter.
      (3)   Perform such other activities as may be required by the Town
Marshal to carry out, improve and implement the intent of this chapter.
   ALARM DEVICE. The portion of the alarm system located within or upon the
premises of the alarm holder to detect entry into such premises by an
unauthorized intruder.
   ALARM HOLDER. The owner, lessee or person responsible for the existence of
an alarm device within or upon his premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices designed to signal or
transmit a signal to monitoring equipment maintained at the central answering
point indicating the presence of a hazard at the premises of the alarm holder
requiring urgent attention and to which police personnel are expected to
respond. The alarm system may include burglar, hold-up or robbery warning
devices. Included in the alarm system are alarm devices emitting sounds,
flashing lights or beacon signals to warn persons outside the premises of the
existence of a hazard at the premises.
   AUTOMATIC DIALER. An alarm system which automatically sends over regular
telephone lines (as distinguished from dedicated telephone lines) a prerecorded
voice message, or coded signal, indicating the existence of an emergency
situation at the premises of an alarm holder.
   BURGLAR ALARM. An alarm device activated automatically signaling the entry
or attempted entry of an unauthorized intruder in or upon the premises of an
alarm holder, of which such activation is to signal a robbery, attempted
robbery, hold-up, attempted hold-up, burglary or attempted burglary at such
premises.
   CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT. An office or place maintained by the police to
which burglar alarms are connected and where police personnel supervise or
monitor burglar alarm signals through the use of monitoring equipment.
   DEDICATED TELEPHONE LINE. A telephone line which has as its sole use the
transmission of an alarm signal from an alarm device to monitoring equipment.
   DIRECT CONNECTION. The method of using a telephone line, or other
transmission line, which line has as its sole use the transmission of a burglar
alarm signal from an alarm device to the monitoring equipment maintained at the
central answering point.
   FALSE ALARM. A burglar alarm signal received at the central answering point
from an alarm device from causes aside from burglary, attempted burglary,
severe weather conditions or timely and proper telephone call to police
canceling any response by police to the alarm signal. Such causes are generated
from human error; improper maintenance; improper installation; faulty
equipment; electrical or mechanical malfunction; or excessive sensitivity.
   FEES. Monies paid by an alarm holder to continue to have his alarm device
connected to the central answering point.
   LOCAL ALARM. Alarm equipment which when activated causes an audible and/or
visual signal in or on the premises. Such type of alarm equipment may or may
not be a part of the alarm system.
   MONITORING EQUIPMENT. An assembly of equipment and devices maintained at the
central answering point which is part of the alarm system which registers the
activation of an alarm device in response to which police personnel are
expected to respond.
   POLICE. The Town Marshal's Department.
   SERVICE CHARGE. An assessment by the police against an alarm holder for a
false alarm.
   TROUBLE INDICATION. A transmittal signal, different from a burglar alarm
signal, which indicates a mechanical or electrical problem within the alarm
system.
§ 91.02 TESTING OF ALARM DEVICE.
   An alarm holder, in the first 30 days of the installation of an alarm
device, shall be authorized to test the alarm device without the imposition of
any false alarm service charge or without the risk of disconnection, subject to
the alarm holder's filing of a written statement with the police stating the
testing procedure to be utilized and the name of the alarm holder's delegate
performing such testing procedure. The testing procedure will be as follows:
   (A)   In the event the testing procedure is an on-site test designed to
simulate conditions to induce an alarm signal to be generated, the alarm
holder, or his delegate, shall timely and properly inform the police of the
testing and the police will telephone the alarm holder, or his delegate, each
time an alarm signal is received at the central answering point, but the police
will not otherwise respond to the alarm signal;
   (B)   If the testing procedure utilized is to allow an alarm signal to be
generated without simulating condition to induce an alarm signal, the police
will respond to each alarm signal generated but the alarm holder, or his
delegate, shall file with the police within 48 hours of the generated alarm
signal, a written statement of each false alarm created, the cause of such
false alarm and the procedure utilized to eliminate further false alarms; or
   (C)   Both of the foregoing testing procedures.
§ 91.03 AUTOMATIC VOICE DIALERS PROHIBITED.
   The installation of any automatic voice dialer to the police or central
answering point is prohibited. Alarm holders who, as of September 1, 1989, have
been granted permission to have an automatic voice dialer connected to the
central answering point shall be allowed to retain such connection.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 AUTOMATIC SHUT-OFF REQUIRED.
   All alarm devices and local alarms shall have an automatic shut-off which
will deactivate the sound, light or beacon signal of an alarm device or local
alarm within one-half hour after the commencement of such sound, light or
beacon signal. The police may enter the premises to deactivate such sound,
light or beacon signal which has not been shut off within one-half hour of
activation of same and which disturbs surrounding residents or premises. Such
deactivation by police shall be taken only after reasonable efforts have been
made by the police to contact the owner of the local alarm or alarm holder, or
his delegate, as the case may be. Neither the police nor the town shall be
liable for any damages resulting from such deactivation.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CONNECTION TO CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT.
   All connections to the central answering point shall be subject to the
following:
   (A)   Permit. No person shall hereafter be authorized to have direct
connection to the central answering point for a burglar alarm within the
corporate limits of the town, or from financial institutions outside the town
limits, without first obtaining a permit from the police.
      (1)   The permit application shall be on a form prescribed by the police.
      (2)   All applicants for a permit shall agree as follows:
         (a)   The applicant and his delegate are solely responsible for the
alarm device of the alarm holder, including any liability directly or
indirectly connected with the use or non-use of all the alarm devices of the
alarm holder;
         (b)   The applicant shall indemnify, defend and hold free and harmless
the Town, the police and the alarm agent from any and all claims, demands,
judgments, liabilities, costs or expenses that may arise, directly or
indirectly, as a result of any connection to the central answering point.
         (c)   That neither the town, the police, nor the alarm agent are
liable for any costs or expenses of installation, lease, maintenance, service
or any other charges or fees for any alarm device or equipment leased or owned
by the applicant.
   (B)   Equipment. All alarm devices hereafter connected to the monitoring
equipment shall be compatible with such monitoring equipment and shall conform
to the most recent specifications of the American National Standards Institute,
or equivalent specifications of an approved rating bureau.
   (C)   Connection and maintenance fees. The following connection fees shall
be chargeable against an alarm holder:
      (1)   An initial fee of $90 for each direct connection shall be paid by
the alarm holder to the alarm agent at the time of connection to the central
answering point. An alarm holder having more than one type of alarm device
shall require a separate connection to the central answering point for each
alarm device that it to be so connected and, shall require separate permits.
Connections in effect as of September 1, 1989 are exempt from this fee.
      (2)   A monthly maintenance fee shall be paid by the alarm holder to the
alarm agent in the amount of $9, as long as the alarm holder has an alarm
device connected to the central answering point.
      (3)   A fee of $10 shall be paid by the applicant to the police with each
application made for connection of an alarm device to the central answering
point.
   (D)   Testing of equipment. No alarm device connected to the central point
shall be tested or demonstrated without first having obtained permission from
the Town Marshal or his delegate.
§ 91.06 DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION TO CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT.
   (A)   Disconnection. Causes for disconnection from the central answering
point are as hereinafter set out. The alarm holder shall be liable and
responsible for all costs, charges and fees arising from a disconnection from
the central answering point. Such causes are as follows:
      (1)   Failure to pay any fees or charges required herein.
      (2)   Twelve false alarms from an alarm device of the alarm holder,
transmitted to the monitoring equipment, within any 12-month period.
      (3)   Three or more trouble indications from an alarm device of the alarm
holder, transmitted to the monitoring equipment, within any 12-month period.
      (4)   A continuous transmission to the monitoring equipment of a trouble
indicated from an alarm device of the alarm holder for a period of more than 48
hours.
      (5)   Failure of the alarm holder to have his portion of the alarm system
under a 24-hour basis maintenance agreement with a qualified alarm installer or
supplier.
      (6)   Violation of division (B) regarding connection to central answering
point.
   (B)   Reconnection. In the event an alarm holder has had his alarm device
disconnected from the central answering point for causes set out in division
(A) hereof, such alarm device can be reconnected to the central answering
point, in accordance with the following:
      (1)   If any alarm system has been disconnected from the central
answering point by reason of division (A)(1) hereof, then upon payment in full
of all outstanding fees and charges, the alarm system may be reconnected to the
central answering point.
      (2)   If an alarm system has been disconnected by reason of division (A)
(2) or (3) hereof, then the alarm holder must submit a written statement
indicated that repairs have been made to correct the problem in the appropriate
alarm device and its related paraphernalia. After verification, on behalf of
the alarm holder, that the alarm system is property functioning, the alarm
holder may have his alarm device reconnected to the central answering point.
      (3)   If an alarm device has been disconnected from the central answering
point by reason of division (A)(4) hereof, then the alarm holder must submit a
written statement indicating the reasons for the false alarms and stating what
measures have been taken to prevent or minimize future false alarms. After
review of aforesaid statements by the Town Marshal, the alarm device may, in
the sole discretion of the Town Marshal, be reconnected to the central
answering point.
      (4)   If an alarm device has been disconnected from the central answering
point by reason of division (A)(5) hereof, then upon proof submitted to the
police by the alarm holder of the acquisition of an appropriate maintenance
agreement by the alarm holder, the alarm device of the alarm holder can be
reconnected to the central answering point. The alarm holder shall be
responsible for any cost or charge arising from the reconnection.
   (C)   Security companies. Alarm holders who are directly or indirectly
connected to an alarm security company or other answering service, whose
primary purpose is that of notifying the police or fire by telephone of a
burglary, attempted burglary, hold-up, robbery, fire, smoke, excess heat,
explosion, or other emergency, shall be subject to comply with all sections of
this chapter with the exception of the connection and monthly maintenance fees.
Registration shall be required with the central answering point. Information
shall include, but not be limited to, names of persons that can be contacted to
allow entry into the building and/or to shut of an alarm.
§ 91.07 FALSE ALARM SERVICE CHARGE.
   A service charge for false alarms received at the central answering point
shall be payable as follows: Three false alarms shall be allowed each alarm
device in any 12-month period. A service charge of $25 shall be paid by the
alarm holder to the police for each of the fourth and fifth false alarms
received at the central answering point from each separate alarm device of the
alarm holder during any 12-month period, and a service charge of $50 shall be
paid for each false alarm in excess of five false alarms received at the
central answering point from the alarm holder's each and separate alarm device
during any 12-month period.
§ 91.08 MISUSE OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   It is unlawful for any person to activate an alarm system for any purpose
other than what the alarm system was originally designed to detect.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The town and the police reserve the right, at any time, to discontinue the
service of providing monitoring of any and all alarm systems after 30 days'
written notice to the alarm holder. The town and the police are under no
obligation to supply this special type of service described in this chapter to
any person.
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   The Town Marshal shall have the responsibility for enforcement of this
chapter.
§ 91.11 DISPOSITION OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   Fees paid to file an application for the permit described herein, and all
charges relative to false alarms, shall be paid directly to the police. All
other fees shall be paid to the alarm agent. All fees paid directly to the
police shall be dedicated, cumulatively, for the upgrading of response by the
police to burglary, hold-up and robbery alarms. The dedication shall include
the acquisition of appropriate equipment and related paraphernalia pertaining
thereto. The office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall maintain in its
records such dedicated fund on a cumulative basis. The Alarm Board, without
further authority, shall be entitled to require expenditures from such
dedicated fund as are necessary to implement and carry out the intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1989-9, passed 10-23-89)
§ 91.12 APPEALS.
   Any final decision issued by the police, Town Marshal, or Alarm Board may be
appealed by the alarm holder, or his delegate, to the Town Council within 30
days after the issuance of such final decision.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $300 for each and every offense, and each day that such
offense continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   License required; annual fee; record
   
92.03   License tag
   
92.04   Immunization
   
92.05   Running at large
   
92.06   Trespassing upon or damaging property prohibited
   
92.07   Barking dogs
   
92.08   Chasing after persons or vehicles prohibited
   
92.09   Impoundment procedure
   
92.10   Exemption
   
92.11   Pet owner responsibility
Other Animals
   
92.25   Household chickens
 
   
92.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any licensed or unlicensed dog or cat found off the premises of
his owner and not under the control of a competent person, restrained within a
motor vehicle, housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel, on a leash or at heel
beside a competent person and obedient to that person's command.
   CATS. Both male and female animals of the feline species whether altered or
not.
   DOGS. Both male and female animals of the canine species whether altered or
not.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, association, or corporation owning, keeping,
sheltering, or harboring a dog or cat.
§ 92.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; ANNUAL FEE; RECORD.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat over the age of six months shall procure a
dog or cat license from the town on or before February 1 of each year. The
license fee shall be due and payable between January 1 and February 1 of each
year. Licenses become delinquent February 1 of each year, and the delinquent
license fee shall be $1, except in those cases where by reason of residence or
age the dog was not subject to licensing during the January 1 to February 1
period.
   (B)   The annual license fee shall be $1 for each dog, $1 for each cat, and
$1 for each spayed dog or cat.
   (C)   Upon payment of the license fee, the town designated official shall
issue to the owner a license which shall contain the name of the owner, his
place of residence and a description of the dog or cat. The town designated
official shall keep a duplicate of each license issued as a public record.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 LICENSE TAG.
   (A)   Upon issuance of the license, the town designated official shall
deliver to the owner a metal tag stamped with the number of the license and the
year for which it is issued. The license tag shall be securely fastened to a
collar or harness which shall be worn by the dog or cat for which the license
is issued.
   (B)   Any dog or cat found running at large without the license tag attached
to its collar or harness shall be deemed unlicensed.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 IMMUNIZATION.
   All dogs or cats six months or older shall be vaccinated against rabies.
Before issuance of the license the owner shall furnish a veterinarian's
certificate showing that the dog or cat for which the license is sought has
been vaccinated, and that the vaccination does not expire within six months
from the effective date of the dog or cat license. It shall be a violation of
this subchapter for any dog or cat to not be vaccinated against rabies. A tag
showing evidence of proper vaccination shall be worn by every dog and cat when
not confined.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner of any dog or cat shall permit that dog or cat to run at large,
whether the dog or cat be licensed or unlicensed.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 TRESPASSING UPON OR DAMAGING PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit that
dog or cat to pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or
interference with, the premises.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 BARKING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit that
dog or cat to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent
and habitual howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 CHASING AFTER PERSONS OR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit that
dog or cat to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by running
after or chasing any person, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any unlicensed or unvaccinated dog or cat found at large or any
licensed dog or cat found at large in violation of §§
92.02 through
92.04 of this subchapter shall be seized and impounded, or, at the discretion
of the Town Marshal, the owner may be served a summons to appear before a
proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
   (B)   Owners of licensed dogs or cats shall be notified within two days that
upon payment of applicable impounding fees, plus cost of food and care in a
reasonable amount, the dog or cat will be returned. If the impounded licensed
dogs or cats are not recovered by their owners within seven days after notice,
the dogs or cats shall be disposed of in a humane manner as directed by the
Town Council.
   (C)   Impounded unlicensed dogs or cats may be recovered by the owner, upon
proper identification, by payment of the license fee, impounding fee, and
boarding costs, and the costs of vaccination if vaccination is required by §
92.04. If those dogs or cats are not claimed within seven days after notice,
they shall be disposed of in a humane manner as directed by the Council.
§ 92.10 EXEMPTION.
   Kennel dogs or cats which are kept or raised solely for the bona fide
purpose of sale and which are kept under constant restraint are not subject to
the provisions of this subchapter.
§ 92.11 PET OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Each owner of an animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any solid waste
of the animal. A violation of this section shall be the sum of $30.00 per
occurrence.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 7-1-04)
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 92.25 HOUSEHOLD CHICKENS.
   (A)   Household chickens. Household chickens shall be allowed as follows:
      (1)   Number. Maximum number of chickens: three chickens per lot.
      (2)   Permitted and prohibited types. Hens shall be permitted and
roosters shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Chicken coop; fence. A chicken coop shall be required and all
chickens must be contained within an appropriately fenced area.
      (4)   Location. A coop shall be permitted in the rear yard only and
within the setbacks applicable to a primary structure in the subject zoning
district. It shall be at least eight feet from property line.
   (B)   These household chicken standards shall not interfere in any way with
the pastured farm animals standards for chickens.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 11-9-16; Am. Ord. 5-2017, passed 7-12-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.10 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (B)   Violation of §
92.25 is punishable by a fine up to $250 per day for each violation as
determined by the Town Council.
(Am. Ord. 5-2017, passed 7-12-17)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Price of cemetery lots
   
93.02   Perpetual care fund
Board of Cemetery Trustees
   
93.10   Establishment and duties
   
93.11   Members
   
93.12   Powers and duties; compensation
   
93.13   Secretary and sexton
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PRICE OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   The price of all lots and all other charges in the cemetery shall at all
times be fixed and determined by the Town Council.
§ 93.02 PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   (A)   There is created a Perpetual Care Fund for the care, maintenance, and
upkeep of the cemetery located in the town. This fund is to be designated on
the books and records of the Town Council and on the books and records of the
cemetery as the Perpetual Care Fund.
   (B)   The Perpetual Care Fund shall be maintained by the addition to the
fund of sums of money obtained pursuant to the sale of grave sites in an amount
established by the Council.
BOARD OF CEMETERY TRUSTEES
§ 93.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   There is hereby created a board to be known as the Board of Cemetery
Trustees to advise the Town Council on the use of privately donated funds to
the Town Cemetery. The Board shall consist of five members to be appointed by
the Council.
§ 93.11 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Cemetery Board shall be either residents of the
town or owners of lots within the cemetery, either by purchase or by
inheritance. One of the members of the Board shall be a member of the Town
Council and shall, by virtue of that office, be President of the Board of
Cemetery Trustees.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of five suitable persons, having the
qualifications set forth in this chapter, each of whom shall serve for a term
of four years from the date of their appointment. The Town Council shall, at
their regular session in the month of January in each year, appoint one or two
persons as the case may require, to serve as members of the Board.
§ 93.12 POWERS AND DUTIES; COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Trustees of the cemetery shall be allowed compensation for
their services as the Town Council from year to year shall determine.
§ 93.13 SECRETARY AND SEXTON.
   (A)   The Town Council may, on or before January 21 of each year, employ a
Secretary to the Board of Cemetery Trustees, which person shall be a resident
of the town and shall serve as Secretary upon the terms and conditions
determined by the Council and specifically at the pleasure of the Council until
a successor is elected and qualified. That Secretary may be a member of the
Cemetery Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Secretary, if employed, shall give bond in the sum of $2,500 in
favor of the town to account of all moneys and property of all kinds coming
into his or her hands as Secretary and shall have such duties as the Council
shall proscribe.
   (C)   The sexton, if employed, shall give bond in the sum of $2,500 in favor
of the town to account for all moneys and property of all kinds coming into his
hands as sexton and shall have such duties as the Council shall prescribe.
CHAPTER 94: GARBAGE AND TRASH REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Compliance
   
94.03   Refusal of service
   
94.04   Collection through Sewage Utility Department
   
94.05   Sites and times for pickup
   
94.06   Outside entities
   
94.07   Certain substances prohibited from collection
   
94.08   Burning and smoldering refuse; ashes
   
94.09   Special collections
   
94.10   Limited application
Containers
   
94.20   Plastic bags; cans
   
94.21   Damage
   
94.22   Removal after collection
Charges and Surcharges
   
94.30   Method for setting fees
   
94.31   Charges to be monthly
   
94.32   Surcharge for small businesses with more trash than residences
   
94.33   User charge
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRASH. Refuse; accumulations of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that
attend the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storage of meat, fish,
fowl, fruits or vegetables and containers originally used for foodstuffs; the
residue from fires used from cooking or heating; combustible materials
consisting of paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches,
yard trimmings, wood furniture or other wood or combustible materials; bedding;
metals, tin cans; dirt; contents of litter receptacles; small quantities of
rocks, concrete, glass, crockery, leaves, bottles and other containers.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.02 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any person or entity within the town shall comply with all
regulations, rules and statutes of any governmental body pertaining to the
manner of containing, keeping and disposing of trash, garbage and materials
from time to time. No person or entity shall permit any materials, debris,
trash or garbage to be placed or remain upon any property or real estate in the
town except as permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   In the event any person or entity shall fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the Town Sewage Utility Department may, in addition
to any other remedies, discontinue trash collection from the person or entity
for a period of time.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.03 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The collection of trash may be refused at any time the person or entity
collecting it deems the trash is not in compliance with this chapter or
otherwise not suitable for collection.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.04 COLLECTION THROUGH SEWAGE UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   The collection of trash by or through the town shall be under this chapter
and through the Town Sewage Utility Department.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.05 SITES AND TIMES FOR PICKUP.
   (A)   Trash collection service shall be on a periodic basis, such as weekly,
or at other times as the Town Council may, from time to time, direct.
   (B)   Trash collection service shall be available to residents of the town
at or near their place of residence and to small businesses the Council shall
consider in its discretion as having an amount of trash comparable to that of a
residence.
   (C)   All trash shall be set out or placed at one location on the sidewalk
line or at other places as personnel from the Town Sewage Utility Department
shall designate from time to time, no earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the day before
trash collection and no later than 8:00 a.m. on the day of collection. Trash
shall not be set out for collection in advance of the regularly scheduled
collection day, except as set forth in this section.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.06 OUTSIDE ENTITIES.
   No person or entity shall permit the trash collection service to be used for
the benefit of any person or entity outside the town or for any person or
entity bringing trash from another location to the trash collection site of the
residence or small business from which trash is collected under this chapter.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.07 CERTAIN SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED FROM COLLECTION.
   (A)   No noxious, corrosive, hazardous, pollutive, flammable or fire
accelerant substances shall be deposited or placed for collection.
   (B)   No substance or chemical shall be deposited for trash collection which
cannot be placed in the general refuse landfill receiving customary residential
household waste, within the meaning of any applicable federal, state or local
regulation or law.
   (C)   No oil, gasoline, dead animals or pesticide shall be deposited for
trash collection.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.08 BURNING AND SMOLDERING REFUSE; ASHES.
   No burning or hot materials or ashes shall be deposited for trash
collection.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.09 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS.
   From time to time, such as quarterly in each year, the town may provide a
trash collection service at a single location to which larger items or
quantities not suitable for deposit in the containers provided for weekly trash
pickup, to be brought for deposit.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.10 LIMITED APPLICATION.
   Trash collection service is not to be considered for the benefit of every
lot, parcel or real property or building connected or to be connected with the
municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 1987-6, passed 8-24-87))
CONTAINERS
§ 94.20 PLASTIC BAGS; CANS.
   (A)   All trash shall be placed in durable plastic bags which are securely
tied or fastened, without any liquid accumulated in the bag.
   (B)   In the event a container is furnished by the town or its contractor
for the deposit of trash, all trash shall be deposited in the container and the
lid shall be securely closed thereon.
      (1)   The maintenance and security of the container furnished for the
collection of trash shall be the sole responsibility of the person or entity to
whom trash collection service is provided.
      (2)   In the event the container is lost, damaged or stolen, regardless
of whether it shall be due to an act or omission of the person whose trash is
collected, the person or entity receiving the trash collection service
forthwith shall replace the container at his or its expense, the same to be the
property of the town or contractor, as the case may be.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.21 DAMAGE.
   No person or entity shall damage or permit to be damaged any trash container
used in connection with the town's trash collection service.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.22 REMOVAL AFTER COLLECTION.
   Trash containers shall be removed from the designated place of collection on
the same day collection is made.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
CHARGES AND SURCHARGES
§ 94.30 METHOD FOR SETTING FEES.
   (A)    The Town Council hereby determines that the cost of collecting,
treating and disposing of garbage in a sanitary manner is the factor which is
used hereunder to establish fees.
   (B)   A residential user in a mobile home park, multiple family dwelling or
apartment complex shall be deemed to be each living unit thereof.
(Ord. 1987-6, passed 8-24-87; Am. Ord. 08-2012, passed 7-11-12)
§ 94.31 CHARGES TO BE MONTHLY.
   (A)    The charge for trash collection shall be made on a monthly basis as
part of the sewage bill of the property to which service is rendered.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
   (B)   The normal use charge shall be $11 for solid waste collection for
residential or business user per month.
      (1)   The normal use, for which the monthly payment charge shall be due
and payable, shall be not greater or different than one trash collection
container approved by the town for trash collection on a weekly basis.
      (2)   If a second toter is required, it will be provided at a rate of $8
per home per month.
   (C)   The trash collection service hereunder is not to be considered for the
benefit of every lot, parcel or real property or building connected or to be
connected with the municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 1987-6, passed 8-24-87; Am. Ord. 1997-2, passed 9-30-97; Am. Ord. 08-
2012, passed 7-11-12; Am. Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-14-18; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed
1-11-23; Am. Ord. 2023-10, passed 4-26-23)
§ 94.32 SURCHARGE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES WITH MORE TRASH THAN RESIDENCES.
   The Town Council may provide a surcharge for any small business having an
amount of trash greater than that normally produce by a residential user.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
§ 94.33 USER CHARGE.
   (A)    A user charge shall be imposed for trash collection for each
residential user of the town sewage system (connected to the sanitary sewage
system), regardless of whether such residential user shall make use of such
trash collection service of the town, unless the Sewage Utility Board or the
Town Council shall determine, in its discretion, that it is inequitable under
the circumstances for such charge to be made. A user may request the Town
Council or Sewage Utility Board to make such determination.
(Ord. 1987-6, passed 8-24-87; Am. Ord. 08-2012, passed 7-11-12)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this section, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1987-04, passed 7-27-87)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Purpose of regulations
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Excessive vehicle noise levels
   
95.04   Notice to repair vehicle
   
95.05   Decompression of engine cylinders
   
95.06   Signs restricting decompression
   
95.07   Exceptions
   
95.08   Administration and enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall govern all noise caused by motor vehicles and originating
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighing network. The level so read is
designated db(A) or dBA.
   DECIBEL or db. A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons
per square meter).
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Consistent with IC 9-13-2-105, a vehicle that is self-
propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, or an electric personal assistive mobility device.
   NOISE LEVEL. The A-weighted sound level produced by a motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector, integrator or time averager, output meter, and weighting networks
used to measure sound pressure levels. The instrument shall be used for
measurement of the intensity of sound and calibrated in decibels as
standardized by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Readings
shall be made on a db(A) scale.
   TRAFFIC NOISE. Sound made by a motor vehicle operated either on the public
right-of-way or private property.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 95.03 EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE LEVELS.
   (A)   Noise limit. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, or allow to
be caused, noise levels from the operation or use of a motor vehicle in excess
of 88 dB(A) in any area within the municipal limits.
   (B)   Excessive noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or
cause to be operated, or use a motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause, or
allow to be caused, excessive noise levels as a result of unnecessary rapid
accelerations, deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, or as a
result of the operation of audio devices such as, but not limited to, radios,
phonograph, tape players, compact disc players or any other sound-amplifying
device on, or from, the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 7-28-10) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 NOTICE TO REPAIR VEHICLE.
   No person shall operate a vehicle found to be in violation of the dBA level
contained in this chapter more than 30 days after receiving a notice to repair,
until the vehicle has been properly repaired to comply with the sound level in
this chapter.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DECOMPRESSION OF ENGINE CYLINDERS.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall cause or permit the decompression of
the cylinders of the motor vehicle while the vehicle is on a public street or
way. Such decompression and the noise resulting therefrom is a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-06, passed 4-10-02)
§ 95.06 SIGNS RESTRICTING DECOMPRESSION.
   The employees of the town are authorized to erect signs on and near public
highways of the town informing operators of vehicles that decompression of
engine cylinders is not permitted, so such operators of vehicles will be
apprised of the limitation imposed by §
95.05 dealing with such prohibition.
(Ord. 2002-06, passed 4-10-02)
§ 95.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are excepted from this chapter:
   (A)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, and similar home power tools when
properly muffled;
   (C)   Celebrations on Halloween and legal holidays and celebrations in
connection with duly authorized parades and festivals.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 95.08 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever this ordinance is violated, the person so charged shall be
issued a citation that provides:
      (1)   The violation cited;
      (2)   The cost of the violation;
      (3)   The date by which the prescribed penalty shall be paid;
      (4)   A statement that the violator may participate in the penalty
reduction program by paying the citation within 72 hours; and
      (5)   The address to which payment for the violation may be submitted.
   (B)   Traffic regulations not specifically changed by this chapter shall
remain in full force and effect. All portions of former ordinances in conflict
with this chapter are hereby repealed or superseded. This chapter shall become
in full force and effect from and after its adoption and publication as
required by law.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 7-28-10)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall result in a penalty of $250. The Clerk
Treasurer shall reduce the penalty fee to $150, if full payment is made within
72 hours of the violation. To be eligible for the reduction program, full
payment must be made to the Town of Morristown and received by the Clerk
Treasurer's Office, 418 W. Main Street, Morristown, IN 46161, within 72 hours
of violation.
(Ord. 7-2010, passed 7-28-10)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCE SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION, ILLEGAL DUMPING AND LITTERING
Section
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Purpose
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Violations
   
96.05   Investigation
   
96.06   Warnings and citations
   
96.07   Enforcement, abatement and clean up
   
96.08   Right to contest
   
96.09   Severability
   
96.10   Administrative rules and policies
   
96.11   Applicability and effective date
   
96.12   Businesses that endanger public health and welfare prohibited
 
   
96.99   Penalties and sanctions
§ 96.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the “Nuisance Solid Waste Accumulation,
Illegal Dumping and Littering Ordinance.”
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.02PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit nuisance solid waste
accumulation, illegal dumping and littering along roadways and on public and
private property in the town, to establish penalties for violations thereof,
and to provide for the clean up of solid waste that is not disposed in
accordance with Indiana law. Littering and improper disposal at recycling
stations shall also be prohibited. This chapter is intended to protect the
citizens from the burden of costs related to solid waste accumulation, illegal
dumping, littering and clean up.
   (B)   The primary intent of the chapter is to discourage illegal dumping and
littering on public and private property, to promote clean up of nuisance solid
waste, and to encourage the proper waste management alternatives of sanitary
landfilling and recycling. Elimination of improper disposal is necessary to
protect human health and the natural environment, to protect surface and ground
waters from pollution and to protect the value of property from the negative
effects of solid waste accumulation, dumping and littering. Fines and sanctions
are meant to deter violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours; or
      (2)   A vehicle located on private property that is at least three model
years old, is mechanically inoperable, and is left on private property, with or
without the consent of the person in control of the property, continuously in a
location visible from public property or public right-of-way for more than 20
days. “Mechanically inoperable” shall mean a vehicle from which the engine,
transmission, differential, wheels or any other part of the drive train or
suspension has been removed so as to prevent the vehicle from being driven
under its own power.
      (3)   Licensing of a vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the
finding that it is an abandoned vehicle.
   ABATE. To end nuisance solid waste accumulation, illegal dumping and
littering by removal, clean up and proper disposal.
   ACCUMULATION/TO ACCUMULATE. To heap, pile up, amass or collect waste
improperly or in improper storage containers for a period exceeding 15 days or
the standard interval of local commercial collection services, whichever is
less.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION WASTE shall mean any discarded construction or
demolition materials including, but not limited to lumber, wood, paneling, dry
wall, roofing shingles, siding, plumbing, electrical, doors, windows, floor
coverings and cabinets.
   CONTAMINATED. Un-rinsed containers with food or product residues, non-
container glass materials, containers which contained oils, pesticides,
fertilizers, herbicides, poisons or other hazardous materials, materials fouled
with dirt or other substances foreign to their original contents or
composition, wet or saturated newspapers, and any other conditions that render
the materials unrecycleable.
   DISCARD. Abandon, deposit, desert, discharge, dispose, drop, dump,
eliminate, emit, jettison, leave, pitch, place, put, scrap, spill, leak, throw,
or toss any item of solid waste or derivative thereof, or any inherent waste-
like material in a manner such that the discarded substance remains upon the
land as solid waste.
   DUMPING/TO DUMP. The discarding along county roadways or at any location
other than a site of generation, any items of solid waste commonly known as
garbage, rubbish, refuse, construction and demolition debris, household trash,
baby diapers, food service wastes, old appliances, tires, scrap metal, vehicle
parts, and all other items and materials defined as “solid waste” below.
   FILL MATERIAL. Any material that is used for filling such as clean soil,
clay, shale, gravel or sand. Concrete will be allowed if the maximum particle
size is 24 inches or less in diameter and all protruding reinforcing steel is
removed from the concrete particle.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible (rotten) animal solid, vegetable solid, and semi-
solid wastes from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving or
consumption of food or food materials. Such materials carry the potential of
harboring vector-borne diseases.
   GENERATE. The act or process of producing solid waste. "Generator" means the
person whose actions or processes result in the unwanted solid waste materials.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste, including but not limited to household hazardous
wastes, used oils, and chemicals that because of its quantity, concentration,
or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious or incapacitating irreversible illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled, disposed
of or otherwise managed;
      (3)   Be nondegradable or persistent in the environment;
      (4)   Be biologically magnified; or
      (5)   Cause or tend to cause cumulative effects.
    INERT SOLID WASTE. Uncontaminated earth, rocks, rigid concrete, bricks,
tiles, aged asphalt, uncontaminated natural wood, brush, leaves, grass
clippings, wood chips and sawdust.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any waste that is capable of transmitting a communicable
disease including but not limited to pathological waste (human tissues, blood,
excreta and secretions), medical and laboratory wastes, contaminated or fouled
bedding, bandages, dressings, diapers, contaminated animal carcasses, offal,
excreta, body parts, and bedding, etc.
   JUNK. Any of the following items which are considered abandoned, dismantled,
discarded or otherwise unusable including, but not limited to vehicles,
machinery, equipment, appliances or other household goods and furniture. The
term shall also include component parts, such as engines, transmissions, drive
train, suspension, fenders, doors, hoods, wheels, windshields and tires removed
from vehicles or any other part of a vehicle.
   LITTERING. Discarding in any location other than a proper waste storage
container any item of solid waste such as a can, bottle, cigarette butt,
package, wrapper or any other material, excluding organic refuse such as a
single apple core, banana peel or leftover food item. LITTERING may also
include any item of waste material moved by wind, water or animals into a
public way or any combination of these items exceeding a volume of one cubic
foot.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more sources or the
discarding of solid waste at any location that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill as proscribed by state law or regulations,
and that exists without daily cover and without regard to the possibilities of
contamination of surface or subsurface water resources, air, land or other
hazard or threat of hazard to the environment or safety.
    PERSON. Shall mean, but is not limited to, an individual, partnership,
firm, company, corporation, trust, estate, legal representative or agent.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any condition or thing existing or allowed to exist that:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, health or safety of others or the
environment;
      (2)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to destruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
alley, stream or ditch;
      (3)   Unreasonably interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and/
or property, or is likely to depreciate the value of other's property.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials segregated from the waste stream for the purpose of
collection and reprocessing to recover and reuse as a materials resource. This
shall include glass containers, newspapers, office papers, corrugated
cardboard, aluminum and steel containers and certain plastic containers.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable or recyclable waste materials
from a solid waste disposal facility and implies consent of the owner of the
waste materials.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled and unauthorized removal of materials from
solid waste at any point in the waste management system.
   SHELBY COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT. The territorial area
described in Shelby County Ordinance #1991-3 and cited as Shelby County Code
Article 3, Chapter 7 Section 9 (SCC 3-7-9), and for purposes of this chapter
shall specifically include Morristown.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge or other discarded or disposed
materials, including solid, liquid, or semi-solid or contained gaseous
materials resulting from any operation, activity or source. This definition
excludes hazardous and infectious wastes defined above.
   STORAGE. The proper temporary containment of waste materials in a waste
storage container for a period not to exceed 15 days or the standard interval
of local commercial collection service, whichever is less.
   VECTOR. Any animal or substance capable of harboring and transmitting
microorganisms or disease from one animal to another or to a human.
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. A proper and suitable receptacle used for the
temporary storage of solid waste, infectious or hazardous wastes while awaiting
collection. Containers shall be designed to prevent escape or leakage of
contents and should be resistant to scavenging animals. Plastic bags, paper
bags and corrugated boxes shall not be considered to be proper containers for
outdoor storage of wastes.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.04VIOLATIONS.
   The following acts shall constitute a violation of this chapter:
   (A)   No person shall discard or dump construction/demolition waste,
hazardous waste, infectious waste or solid waste along any public roadway, in
or near any public or private river, lake, stream, ditch or on the property of
another person.
   (B)   No person shall conduct any activity on public or private land which
results in the accumulation of construction/demolition waste, infectious waste,
or solid waste, so as to unreasonably interfere with the public health, safety,
peace and enjoyment of the general public and as such shall be deemed a public
nuisance.
   (C)   No person owning real property shall cause or consent to final
disposal upon said property of solid waste materials (other than inert solid
waste or fill material) that is generated by said person or by any other
person, unless otherwise licensed or permitted as a disposal facility.
   (D)   No person shall discard inert solid wastes on public property for
final disposal or for use as fill material without the consent of the proper
County Commissioners.
   (E)   No person shall litter, nor permit any dependent minor or other person
for whom he or she is legally responsible to litter, nor cause another person
to litter.
   (F)   No person shall discard any materials other than recyclables in any
facility or container intended for collecting recyclables. Leaving recyclable
material outside the recycling bin shall constitute illegal dumping.
   (G)   No person shall deposit any contaminated recyclable materials in any
county or Solid Waste Management District facility or container intended for
collecting recyclable materials.
   (H)   No person shall conduct scavenging of materials at any facility or
container intended for collecting recyclable materials.
   (I)   No person, either knowingly or unknowingly, shall contract with
another party to engage in any acts prohibited by divisions (A) through (H) of
this section. A violation of this provision of this chapter shall be an offense
of the same degree for the waste generator as the violation committed by the
hired contractor.
   (J)   No person shall store, accumulate or allow to remain on any private
property any abandoned vehicle or junk which is visible from a public place or
public right-of-way. It is hereby declared that any abandoned vehicle or junk
is detrimental to the safety, health and welfare of the general public and
community, tends to reduce the value of private property, and is detrimental to
the economic welfare of the county and is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.05INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of any complaint or report of an alleged violation of this
chapter, the Compliance Officer shall conduct an investigation of such
complaint or report. In the event that the Compliance Officer determines that
there is not a violation of this Ordinance, but believes that the activity may
constitute a violation of a health ordinance or zoning ordinance, the
Compliance Officer may forward a copy of the report of investigation to another
county or Town agency for further review and investigation.
   (A)   Items contained in waste materials or recyclable materials, which bear
information such as names and addresses, shall be considered as evidence for
identifying the owner or generator of the discarded materials and shall
constitute rebuttable evidence that the person whose name is found therein has
violated this ordinance. Witness accounts or surveillance documentation of any
acts prohibited herein shall be considered evidence to identify violators. Any
other pertinent evidence, including photographs and identification, by license
plate number may be considered to determine whether a violation of this chapter
has occurred.
   (B)   No enforcement action may be taken under this chapter against a
landowner on whose land waste has been improperly disposed without the
landowner's consent, unless there has been made a diligent and good faith
effort to identify, locate and take enforcement action against the person that
committed or caused the violation.
   (C)   Any person who in good faith provides information concerning a name, a
license number, or any other evidence of a responsible person's identity found
in waste improperly disposed on either public or private land shall not be held
liable to said person for an action taken by enforcement authorities against
the person as a result of information provided.
   (D)   The Compliance Officer shall have the right to enter any premises for
the purpose of performing any duties imposed upon the officer by the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.06WARNINGS AND CITATIONS.
   (A)   The following persons are hereby authorized to issue warning and
citations under this chapter:
      (1)   The Compliance Officer for the Shelby County Solid Waste Management
District; or
      (2)   A police officer, deputy sheriff or other designated enforcement
officer operating under a cooperative agreement with the District.
   (B)   A warning or citation shall be served by one of the following means
reasonably calculated to give notice to the person alleged to have committed a
violation followed by certified mail, return receipt requested:
      (1)   In person; or
      (2)   To a member of the person's family who is over the age of 18 years
who resides at the person's residence.
   (C)   A warning issued under this chapter shall be on a form approved by the
District Board which shall include:
      (1)   A description of the location of the alleged violation;
      (2)   A brief description of the nature of the alleged violation together
with the provision of this chapter alleged to have been violated;
      (3)   The date and time when the alleged violation was observed or
occurred;
      (4)   The name of the person issuing the warning and the date the warning
was issued; and
      (5)   A statement that failure to correct the alleged violation within a
specified time may result in the issuance of a citation and order to appear
before the Compliance Board and the maximum penalty or fine that may be
assessed if the person is adjudged guilty of violation of this chapter.
   (D)   A citation issued under this chapter shall be on a form approved by
the District Board which shall include:
      (1)   The items contained in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(5), above; and
      (2)   A description of the rights of the person cited to request a
hearing for review, review procedure, and possible penalties or fines for
failure to appear at the hearing all as provided according to §
96.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.07ENFORCEMENT, ABATEMENT AND CLEAN UP.
   (A)   In matters involving a health and/or vector hazard, the Shelby County
Health Department may conduct investigation and enforcement according to laws
governing public health.
   (B)   In matters involving a zoning issue, the Office of the Plan Commission
may conduct investigation and enforcement of the county zoning ordinance.
   (C)   The Shelby County Solid Waste Management District Board of Directors
in conjunction with an appointed Solid Waste Management District Compliance
Board shall be empowered to order the abatement of nuisance solid waste
accumulation, illegal dumping and littering and to issue the orders and fines
designated.
   (D)   Any person or persons identified in violation of this chapter, shall
be subject to the following schedule for abatement:
      (1)   The Compliance Officer shall notify the person of an alleged
violation in accordance with §
96.06(B). Depending upon the extent of the violation, the notice will state
that violation abatement must occur within a reasonable length of time, usually
between ten days and 60 days, from the date of notice. If abatement does not
occur within the stated time, the Shelby County Solid Waste Management District
reserves the right to abate the nuisance through the use of private contractors
or the public workforce.
      (2)   If a small amount of trash, litter or recycling is found on public
land, designated county highway employees or other designated agents may search
the material for identification evidence and then properly dispose or recycle
the material. Evidence will be forwarded to the Compliance Officer for further
action.
      (3)   The owner of property on which improper disposal acts have occurred
may be included as a party of an enforcement action against a person who
committed the violation for the purposes of obtaining access to the land to
clean up and properly dispose of the wastes.
      (4)   Either abatement of the violation or a request for appeal must be
filed with the Compliance Board within the time frame designated in the notice
for the identified person or property owner to avoid fines, an order to appear,
or other legal action. Appeals will be heard pursuant to §
96.99.
      (5)   It shall not be a defense to this chapter that other persons have
participated in the violation, and any person adjudicated to have violated this
chapter may be held liable for all costs related to action to bring compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.08 RIGHT TO CONTEST.
   (A)   A person cited under this chapter is entitled to seek review of the
violation order(s), penalty(ies) or both by filing a written petition for
review to the Shelby County Solid Waste Management District, 1110 Amos Road,
Suite C, Shelbyville, Indiana, 46176, postmarked within 15 working days of
receipt of the violation order(s) and penalty(ies). "Working days" means Monday
through Friday, but does not include Saturday, Sunday or legal holidays. If a
petition for review is not timely filed, the violation order(s) and penalty
(ies) shall be deemed final orders of the Shelby County Solid Waste Management
District.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the petition for review, the Compliance Board will
affirm, amend, or dismiss the violation order(s) and penalty(ies). The
Compliance Board shall issue written findings based upon the evidence submitted
by the Compliance Officer and information submitted by the person seeking
review. Within 30 days after receiving the petition for review, the Compliance
Board shall mail by first-class United States mail, a copy of its findings to
the petitioner. A petition for review will be certified to the District Board.
   (C)   If the petitioner disagrees with the findings issued by the Compliance
Board, the petitioner may appeal the findings to the District Board. All
appeals must be filed with the District Board not later than 15 days after the
date of the findings. Upon receipt of the appeal, the District Board shall
notify the petitioner of a hearing date. At a hearing before the Board, the
Board may hear testimony and consider written evidence. The appellant does not
have to be represented by counsel at the hearing, and the Board shall not be
bound by rules of evidence. The appellant must present sufficient evidence to
rebut the presumption that a violation of the ordinance occurred. Within 30
days following the hearing, the District Board shall issue written findings of
fact and shall notify the appellant thereof. Failure of the appellant to appear
at the hearing shall not prevent the Board from issuing findings. The written
findings of the Board shall be deemed final orders and may be appealed to the
Circuit or Superior Court. All appeals must be filed within 15 days from the
final order or be forever barred.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.09 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section, sentence, clause and phrase of this chapter is declared to be
an independent section, subsection, sentence and phrase, and the finding or
holding of any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase to be
unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause shall not affect any other
section, subsection, sentence clause or phrase or part hereof. The District
Board may modify this chapter as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.10 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND POLICIES.
   The District Board may establish written rules and policies, not
inconsistent herewith to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.11 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the entirety of Morristown, Indiana.
   (B)   All portions of former ordinances in conflict with this chapter are
hereby repealed or superseded. This chapter shall become in full force and
effect from and after its adoption and publication as required by law.
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter that occurred prior to
the enactment of this chapter, and which was a violation of existing state law,
shall not be exempted from enforcement under this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent or supersede the enforcement of
any other ordinance or law by any other county department, board or agency.
   (E)   All changes and amendments to the Shelby County Waste Accumulations,
Illegal Dumping and Litter Ordinance, Ordinance No. 2004-12, are hereby adopted
and incorporated as if fully stated herein after being publicized and filed as
required by law.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
§ 96.12 BUSINESSES THAT ENDANGER PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE PROHIBITED.
   The following types of business may not be located within the town limits:
   (A)   A CFO or a CAFO, including its lagoons, ponds, pits, holding tanks,
and related structures;
   (B)   Any business that creates large amounts of animal excrement; and
   (C)   Any business that otherwise causes a public health risk to the
community.
(Ord. 2023-17, passed 8-23-23)
§ 96.99 PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS.
   (A)   In all cases where a person or property owner is alleged to have
violated this chapter, the Compliance Officer shall have the authority to issue
all orders necessary, including but not limited to orders to appear before the
Shelby County Solid Waste Management District Compliance Board, as appointed by
the Solid Waste Management District Board of Directors. Cases involving fines
will be presented to the Compliance Board by the Compliance Officer or other
designated issuing officer after due notice has been given. The Compliance
Board shall have the authority to levy fines not to exceed $300 per day up to a
total of $2,500 for each violation that remains unabated. Persons who are
ordered to appear before the Compliance Board or District Board and who fail to
appear may be subject to an additional fine of up to $300.
   (B)   All expenses including fines and abatement costs incurred by the
county or the Solid Waste Management District in enforcing this chapter shall
become a lien on property owned by the person or persons as afforded by IC 36-
1-6-2. The lien shall be placed and recorded on the property tax duplicate and
collected from the owner as taxes are collected.
   (C)   All monies collected through the enforcement of this chapter shall be
placed in a non-reverting solid waste clean up fund in the form of an
appropriation from the general fund pursuant to IC 36-7-10.1-4 and 36-7-10.1-
5 and shall be dispersed through the Shelby County Solid Waste Management
District for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-2007, passed 5-9-07)
CHAPTER 97: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
97.01   Regulations for open burning
§ 97.01 REGULATIONS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burning is defined as the burning of any materials wherein air
contaminates resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air,
without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   (B)   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow, or maintain any form of
open burning of any materials on private or public property, except as
specifically authorized by this section. No person shall allow the accumulation
or existence of combustible materials that constituted or contributes to open
burning.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following types of burning are allowed:
      (1)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood, and other cooking
fuels customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices,
or campfires.
      (2)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as school
pep rally fires or the celebration of scout activities. Recreational or
ceremonial shall meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
         (b)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
         (c)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: 10 ft. x 10 ft. x 10 ft.).
         (d)   The local Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advanced
if the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: 5 ft. x 5
ft. x 5 ft. ).
         (e)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
         (f)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel
storage.
   (D)   Variances. 
      (1)   Other types of fires may be approved as follows. Any other type of
fire whereby a citizen of the town has obtained a variance from the provisions
of this section by petitioning the Town Council may be allowed. However, the
Town Council cannot grant a variance for burning that would otherwise violate
the provisions of the 326 Indiana Administrative Code 4-1 et seq., as amended,
and IC 13-17-9.
      (2)   The following types of fires may be allowed if approved by the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management:
         (a)   Fire fighter training;
         (b)   Fire extinguisher training;
         (c)   Vegetation propagation;
         (d)   Use of an air curtain destructor;
      (3)   Please refer to Attachment A to Ordinance 2-2014, incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein, for expanded version of variance
situations based on 326 IAC 4-1-3(c)(3-8) and 326 IAC 4-1-4.
   (E)   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances:
      (1)   Burning shall be done during safe weather conditions. Burning shall
not occur, during high winds, temperature inversions, air stagnation, or when a
pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
      (2)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
      (3)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem or threat to public health.
      (4)   Firefighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be
on-site and nearby during times of burning.
      (5)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state and local laws,
rules, and ordinances.
   (F)   Enforcement. Any person found in violation of this section shall be
subject to the following procedures:
      (1)   The Fire/Police/Health Department/Solid Waste District or other
designated department personnel shall issue a warning notice to a first-time
violator stating that he or she is in violation. The person must then correct
the violation by immediately extinguishing the fire. Failure or refusal to
immediately extinguish the fire shall result in a citation being issued.
      (2)   Issuance of the citation to the violator shall result in the
imposition of a $250 fine per event, as administered by the Town Council. The
fine may be paid within 72 hours at a discounted rate of $150 per event.
      (3)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of this section shall also result in the Fire Department
having the authority to go upon private property to extinguish said fire.
      (4)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing, or allowing of a new
fire after a warning notice or citation has been issued, shall be considered a
separate offense.
      (5)   Liability for fire. Any person who allows the accumulation or
existence of combustible material which constitutes or contributes to open
burning may not refute liability for violation of this section on the basis
that said fire was set because of vandals, accidental, or act of God.
   (G)   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly appointed
fire/police or law enforcement officers within the town acting on his/her own
initiative or at the request of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1987-05, passed 7-27-87; Am. Ord. 2-2014, passed 4-23-14)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
98.01   Creation of Park Authority
   
98.02   Description of park
   
98.03   General authority for rules
   
98.04   Guidelines
   
98.05   Rules
   
98.06   Exceptions to rules
   
98.07   Exclusion from park
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 CREATION OF PARK AUTHORITY.
   The town hereby establishes a Park Authority for the management of all
public parks including approaches that belong to the town pursuant to IC 36-10-
5. The “Park Authority” within the meaning in IC 36-10-52 is the Town Council.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98)
§ 98.02 DESCRIPTION OF PARK.
   The town hereby establishes a park on a certain tract of real estate
consisting of approximately 14.10 acres west of County Road 450 East. Such park
area and grounds shall be open and permitted for use as it is developed and
made available for public use hereafter by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98)
§ 98.03 GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR RULES.
   The Park Authority is authorized to promulgate rules concerning the laying
out, improvement, preservation, ornamentation, management and use of any park
from time to time, user fees, deposits and other matters relating to parks.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98)
§ 98.04 GUIDELINES.
   A determination or written rules for the use and operation of parks
established by the Park Authority from time to time shall control. As to
matters not covered by a determination or the rules of the Park Authority, the
determinations of the following persons shall control without the necessity of
a meeting of the Town Council to make a determination regarding the parks of
the town:
   (A)   The determination of the Town Council President shall control.
   (B)   If the Town Council President does not act and is reasonably
unavailable, then the determination of the Town Manager shall control.
   (C)   If the Town Council President and the Town Manager do not act and are
reasonably unavailable, then the determination of the Town Marshal or deputy
Marshal shall control.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98)
§ 98.05 RULES.
   To the extent not in conflict with rules adopted by the Town Council
regarding use and operation of parks, the following provisions shall control
with regard to the park:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring, possess or consume an
alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance in violation of Indiana criminal
statute (commonly called drugs) in a park of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or deposit any trash,
chemical, debris, equipment, vehicle, discarded material or other substance in
a public park, except ordinary trash properly deposited in a designated trash
receptacle which results from the ordinary recreational use of the park and not
brought in from an outside source or for another purpose.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the park who does not
comply with a deposit or user fee for use of the park required by the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or be in a park between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any
determination or rule adopted by the Park Authority with regard to the park.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to not follow or to disobey the
direction or order of a duly authorized town official regarding the use of the
park at any time, including but not limited to a direction or order from the
Town Marshal or deputy, Town Council President or Town Manager.
   (G)   Reserving the park. Reservations are on a first come, first served
basis except for Morristown High School Senior Graduation which has priority
for graduation weekend as long as notification has been made at least 14 days
in advance of graduation day.
   (H)   Derby Days week. The last week in July of each year the Morristown
Park will automatically be reserved by the Derby Day Committee. The Derby Day
Committee can use the park for a $1 fee plus electricity.
   (I)   No service organization will have to pay a user fee but will be
required to pay a damage deposit of $25. This deposit will be refunded if no
damage.
   (J)   Shelter houses. A $50 user fee will be charged for each shelter house
and related equipment (eight picnic tables, two outdoor grills and electricity)
per day. A day runs from 5 a.m. to 10 p.m. A $25 refundable damage deposit will
also be required.
   (K)   Amphitheater. A $50 user fee will be charged for the use of the
amphitheater stage area and electricity per day. A day runs from 5 a.m. to 10
p.m. A $25 refundable damage deposit will also be required.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98; Am. Res. 2002-04, passed 4-1-02)
§ 98.06 EXCEPTIONS TO RULES.
   The Park Authority or Town Council President may authorize exceptions or
deviations from a rule or this chapter for the use of the park, including such
matters as use of the park after 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98)
§ 98.07 EXCLUSION FROM PARK.
   Any person that the Park Authority determines to have violated Indiana
criminal law in a park or used a park in such manner as: (a) to cause a
substantial danger to person or property within the park or (b) to repeatedly
violate the rules of the town or reasonable directions of town officials with
regard to the park, may be excluded from the park by the Park Authority by
resolution of the Park Authority for a reasonable time, not to exceed one year,
unless extended by further resolution of the town for successive periods so
limited. A person may not be so excluded without at least five days notice and
hearing before the Park Authority, provided that if such person can not be
reasonably notified the hearing may proceed in his absence. It shall be
unlawful for any person to be in or to use a park from which he or she is
excluded during the term of his or her exclusion.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, including but not limited to
§
98.04, for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the
penalty set forth in §
10.99 as amended from time to time. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-14-98)
CHAPTER 99: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Definition
   
99.02   Obstructing public ways prohibited
   
99.03   Obstructing street drains or gutters prohibited
   
99.04   Damage to streets
   
99.05   Structures affixed to sidewalks prohibited
   
99.06   Awnings, signs, or other overhanging structures
   
99.07   Uniform numbering system for properties and principal buildings
Street Excavations
   
99.20   License required
   
99.21   Application and fee
   
99.22   Bond and insurance
   
99.23   Issuance
   
99.24   Warning barriers, signs and lights
   
99.25   Completion of work or defects
   
99.26   Disposition of fees, fines, or penalties
   
99.27   Violations
   
99.28   Town retains control of public ways
Snow Removal
   
99.35   Removal of snow on sidewalks
   
99.36   Removal by town; liability of owner
 
   
99.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET. All public roads and highways in the town.
§ 99.02 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner obstruct any street, or
alley crossing, or for any number of persons to congregate at any point upon
any sidewalk in the town so as to hinder or interfere with the free passage of
pedestrians thereon.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 OBSTRUCTING STREET DRAINS OR GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any real estate within the
town, or any person, to obstruct, cause, or suffer the obstruction of any
ditch, drain, or gutter, made by authority of the town, running along side, in
front of, or through any such real estate, or in any street.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 DAMAGE TO STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, remove, or displace, or cause
to be injured, removed, or displaced, any earth, stone, gravel, or other
material forming a part of any street, sidewalk, or alley, or to damage,
remove, or deface any appurtenance in any street or alley within the town,
without permission so to do from the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 STRUCTURES AFFIXED TO SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   The construction or use of any structure of support, any awning, or overhang
attached to any building which is permanently affixed to the sidewalk and to
the awning or overhangs in front of the building and more than 12 inches from
the curb is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Every person having
such structure in a sidewalk shall remove the same not later than ten days
after a receipt of written notice so to do from the Clerk-Treasurer.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 AWNINGS, SIGNS, OR OTHER OVERHANGING STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person occupying any building to maintain any
awning, sign, or thing of like nature over the sidewalk in front of such
building so that any part of the same is less than seven feet above the surface
of the sidewalk over which it is so hung.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.07 UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR NUMBERING PROPERTIES AND PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings is
hereby established, with the numbering system to be based upon thoroughfares of
the town, all as shown on the map bearing the title “Street Numbering of Town
of Morristown, Ordinance 1981-1",which is incorporated herein and made a part
hereof, said map being filed with the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   All properties or parcels of land within the corporate limits of the
town from time to time shall hereafter be identified by reference to the
numbering system adopted by this section. As a general principle for the
assignment of numbers, a separate number shall be utilized for each
approximately 20 linear feet of street frontage in a residential area, and a
separate number shall be established for every approximately ten feet of linear
street frontage in a commercial area. Each principal building shall bear the
number assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case
a principal building has more than one business or family dwelling unit with
separate front entrances, then each business or family unit having a separate
front entrance, shall bear a separate number.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have discretion and be responsible for
administering and maintaining the numbering system, and may change a street
number. Whenever there shall be a building or residence within the town limits
not having a street number in compliance with the numbering system, by reason
of annexation of territory, erection or altering of a house or building, or
otherwise, the owner thereof shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her
authorized representative for the assignment of a number to the house or
building. The Clerk-Treasurer or his or her representative may assign a street
number without an application being made therefor.
   (D)   The owner of each house or building shall post and maintain at all
times the numeral assigned to the owner's house or building, regardless of
whether such numeral is assigned at the effective date of this section or
thereafter. The numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal
building or each front entrance to a building shall be placed on the property
in such a manner as to be plainly visible and readable from the street upon
which the property is located. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep record of all
numbers assigned under this section. It shall be unlawful for any property
owner to maintain any number upon his or her house or building other than the
one assigned by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1981-1, passed 7-13-81)
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 99.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening for any purpose whatever in
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, or underneath the surface
of the street, alley, or other public place in the town, without first
obtaining a license to do so from the town in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter. The Planning Director or Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall
have the authority to issue such permit. The license may prescribe requirements
or restrictions for such excavation and resurfacing. In the absence of the
Planning Director and Clerk-Treasurer, the President of the Town Council may
issue such permit. This subchapter shall not apply to work conducted by the
town's employees.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.21 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Any person who desires to make any excavation or opening for any
purpose whatever in any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, or
underneath the surface of the street, alley, or public place in the city, shall
make and file with the Clerk-Treasurer a written and sworn application for a
permit on a form prescribed by the Town Council, setting out the location,
purpose, length, and width of the proposed excavation, type of back fill,
resurfacing and thickness of resurfacing material and base, and other relevant
information. Such person shall fully comply with such proposed excavation and
resurfacing described in the application, subject to changes or requirements
set forth in the permit. Such application shall contain an agreement that the
license holder is responsible for and shall pay for any damage to person or
property, including utilities, caused by the work performed under the license,
either by the license holder or any contractor or person furnishing labor or
materials, and that the license holder shall perform all obligations for which
a bond is to be given under §
99.23, including the maintenance of the surface for a two year period. The town
may modify the permit after first issuing the permit. The permit shall not be
deemed to authorize the permit holder to interfere with or alter any utility,
wire or drain.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a license fee to be fixed by
the Town Council from time to time, which may be based upon the time involved
of town personnel in reviewing the application and the work by the license
holder and other factors.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.22 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before any license is issued, the applicant shall execute and file
with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond or undertaking in the penal sum of $5,000, or a
larger amount if required by the Town Council before or after the excavation,
with proper surety to the approval of the Clerk-Treasurer. The bond shall be
conditioned that the obligors will indemnify and save the town harmless from
any and all liability, and all claims and lawsuits for damages that may result
from the excavation or that may arise in any manner, including those that may
result or arise from negligence or purported negligence of the employees or
officials of the town or from the failure or omission to keep or maintain
adequate and proper warning signs, lights, or barriers at the site of the
excavation. The bond shall be further conditioned that the applicant will fill
the excavation up to the surface and resurface the same in accordance with the
permit and requirements set by the town, and the applicant shall be responsible
for maintenance and correct any defects in such work discovered within a period
of two years after it is completed. Unless otherwise permitted by the town, the
resurfacing material shall be of the same type and quality as the surfacing
material adjacent to the excavation. The Town Council may also require
liability insurance for such work, with a certificate of insurance to be
furnished to town.
   (B)   If any applicant for a license has on file a good and sufficient bond
and insurance in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, this shall cover any one or
more excavations for which a license has been issued to the applicant
furnishing the bond.
   (C)   If at any time the Clerk-Treasurer or the Planning Director shall find
that any bond or insurance required by this subchapter is insufficient for any
reason, it shall notify the principal, who shall furnish a new and proper bond
and insurance before continuing the present excavation or commencing any future
excavation.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.23 ISSUANCE.
   If the Clerk-Treasurer or Planning Director determines that such
application, bond, insurance and license fee are sufficient, a license shall be
issued to the applicant authorizing the holder of the license to perform the
work as set forth in the permit under proper safeguards as to warning signals,
lights, and barriers in order to prevent accidents, injuries, and damages to
persons and property, and other requirements. Additional requirements,
restrictions or changes in the work from that set forth in the application may
be required by the town: (a) in the permit; or (b) after issuance of the
permit. Further, after issuance the applicant shall:
   (A)   Display such permit at all times at the site of the excavation;
   (B)   Give notice to the Street Superintendent of town prior to every day
that the excavation will be open;
   (C)   Take and have all responsibility for the work related to permit,
including any liability for damage to person or property.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.24 WARNING BARRIERS. SIGNS, AND LIGHTS.
   Any person making an excavation in or underneath the surface of a street,
alley, or other public place in the city shall erect or place and maintain
suitable warning barriers, signs, and lights at or near the excavation, in a
manner so as to prevent damage to persons and property that might otherwise
result from or be caused by the presence of the excavation, and to direct
traffic safely around the excavation. Such barricades, signs and inserts shall
comply with the laws of the State of Indiana, including the manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.25 COMPLETION OF WORK OR DEFECTS.
   Immediately upon the completion of work and filling and resurfacing of an
excavation by a license holder, he or she shall return his or her permit to the
Clerk-Treasurer or Planning Director. If in the discretion of the Town Council,
the license holder shall not act promptly to fill and/or properly resurface the
excavation, or correct deficiencies in the work of the license holder, then the
town may, with or without notice, perform such refilling, resurfacing or
correcting, and the cost thereof to the town shall immediately be paid to the
town by the license holder with attorney fees and interest as provided for
judgments under Indiana law.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93)
§ 99.26 DISPOSITION OF FEES, FINES, OR PENALTIES.
   All fees received for licenses shall be credited and go to the Street
Department fund of the town. All fines and penalties collected shall be paid
into the general fund of the town.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.27 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the concurrent duty of the Street Superintendent, Planning
Director and Town Marshal to report all violations of this subchapter, and
verify any complaints to be filed therefor.
   (B)   Any person who does any of the following shall be punished as provided
in §
99.99, and shall be liable to the town in an action on the bond for any actual
loss or damage sustained by the town by reason of any breach of the conditions
of the bond or for any violation of this subchapter, to-wit:
      (1)   Makes an excavation or opening in or underneath the surface of any
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in the town without a proper
license from the town, or of larger dimensions than is authorized by the
license;
      (2)   Fails, neglects, refuses, or omits to return his or her license
promptly to the Clerk-Treasurer after filing an excavation;
      (3)   Fails to erect or maintain suitable warning signs, lights, or
barriers at or near any excavation in order to prevent damage to persons and
property;
      (4)   Fails to display his or her license for the excavation;
      (5)   Fails to fill in or resurface any excavation or opening promptly
when the work has been completed, or correct any defects discovered within the
two year discovery period;
      (6)   Fails to apply for or pay for a license;
      (7)   Fails, neglects, refuses, or omits to perform or discharge any
other act or duty imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.28 TOWN RETAINS CONTROL OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as to limit the town in the
control of its public ways, streets and sidewalks during the work of the
license. The licensee shall comply with instructions of the town as to the
timing of excavation construction, providing access over the excavation, and
other matters relating to the excavation and resurfacing, even though not set
forth in the permit. If the license holder shall not promptly comply with such
instructions, the town may perform the same and the cost thereof to the town
shall be due as provided under §
99.26.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-10-93)
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 99.35 REMOVAL OF SNOW ON SIDEWALKS.
   Any person owning, occupying, or controlling any lot, part of lot, or other
real estate in the town abutting on any sidewalk shall remove from the sidewalk
any snow or ice that may fall or accumulate thereon within six hours after such
snow or ice has so fallen or accumulated thereon, provided that such person
shall not be required to remove such snow or ice between the hours of 5:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of the following morning in the event such snow or ice shall fall
or accumulate at such time that it may not be removed before 5:00 p.m.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.36 REMOVAL BY TOWN; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   If any person shall fail to remove any snow or ice from any improved
sidewalk within the time provided for in this subchapter, the Street
Commissioner may remove such snow and ice and he shall keep an accurate account
of the time employed in so doing and the expense thereof. The owner of the lot,
part of the lot, or other real estate shall be liable to the town in an action
against the person for the reasonable costs and expenses thereof, together with
the costs of the action.
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
99.35 shall upon conviction thereof be fined in any sum not exceeding $10.
   (C)   A property owner who violates §
99.07 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 1981-1, passed 7-13-81)
CHAPTER 100: WEEDS AND TREES
Section
Weed Control
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Council to administer
   
100.03   Violation
   
100.04   Abatement and removal procedures
Trees
   
100.15   Planting in public rights-of-way
   
100.16   Removal of unlawfully planted trees
 
   
100.99   Penalty
WEED CONTROL
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   LANDOWNER. The person of record in the County Auditor's tax records at the
address shown therein.
   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION. All plant life that is located in platted
subdivisions, minor subdivisions, or in a row of two or more structures
separated by 435 feet or less on a country road, except turf grass, landscaped
trees, ornamental flowers, crops, and shrubs.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 6-9-10)
§ 100.02 COUNCIL TO ADMINISTER.
   This subchapter shall be administered by the Council and all decisions and
actions required by this subchapter shall be made on behalf the Council.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 6-9-10)
§ 100.03 VIOLATION.
   All weeds and rank vegetation exceeding 12 inches in height are in violation
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 6-9-10)
§ 100.04 ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Council shall give notice to a landowner to cut, within five days,
all weeds and rank vegetation that are in violation of this subchapter. The
notice shall be delivered personally or be sent by certified U.S. mail to the
landowner at the address shown in the County Auditor's tax records. The five
days shall begin on the date of personal delivery or the day after the date of
mailing the notice.
   (B)   If the owner does not bring the height of the weeds and rank
vegetation into compliance with this subchapter within the time set out in the
notice, the Council may cause the weeds and rank vegetation to be cut. The
person cutting the weeds and rank vegetation shall attempt to identify himself
or herself to anyone occupying the property before proceeding.
   (C)   Upon completion of the cutting, as prescribed in division (B) above,
the Council shall bill the landowner for the cost of the cutting at a rate of
$40 per hour for each person that performs the cut, plus an additional $150
administrative fee plus $40 per hour for equipment.
   (D)   A landowner may appeal the Council's decision rendered under divisions
(A) and (B) to the Council by filing a written appeal with the Council within
three days of receiving the notice described in division (A). The notice of
appeal shall be filed with the Council by delivering or mailing the notice to
the attention of the Council at the Town Office, 418 W. Main Street,
Morristown, Indiana 46161.
   (E)   If the landowner fails to pay the bill sent out under division (C)
within ten days after it is mailed to the landowner, the Council shall certify
it to the County Auditor for collection pursuant to IC 36-7-10.1-4.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 6-9-10)
TREES
§ 100.15 PLANTING IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant of real estate within the
limits of the town to plant trees within the right-of-way of any street, alley,
or public way within the town. However, trees may be planted between the
sidewalk and curb measured from the back of the curb to the street side of the
sidewalk.
Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.16 REMOVAL OF UNLAWFULLY PLANTED TREES.
   If any tree is found growing in violation of this subchapter, it shall be
lawful for the Town Council to cause such tree to be removed without notice to
any owner of the land upon which such tree is located.
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall be found to have willfully violated §§
100.15 and
100.16, such persons shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not to exceed
$100.
CHAPTER 101: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
101.01   Policy statement
   
101.02   Definitions
   
101.03   Unlawful practice
   
101.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
101.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
101.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
101.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
101.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
101.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
101.10   Exemptions
   
101.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
   
101.12   Severability of provisions
Statutory reference:
   State law provisions concerning fair housing, see IC 22-9.5-1 et seq.
§ 101.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
    It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur. (IC 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to IC 22-9-
1-4 et seq. (IC 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
IC 22-9.5-6. (IC 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§ 101.04,
101.05, 101.06, 101.07 or 101.08 of this chapter or IC 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. (IC 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in the definition of “familial status” in this section. (IC 22-
9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP. Means, with respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person's major life activities.
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment, or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment,
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
      (5)   Any other impairment defined under IC 22-9.5-2-10.
   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of the United
States Code (IC 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (IC 22-9.5-2-10
(c)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries. (IC 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. (IC 22-
9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
    Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
101.10 of this chapter and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination
in the sale or rental of housing set forth in IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
101.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
101.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
101.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title, or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
    As made applicable by §
101.03 and except as exempted by §
101.03(B) and §
101.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
    It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
101.03,
101.04,
101.05 or
101.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
    Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR 5.403 and 24 CFR 574.3 the definition of FAMILY is
revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
Town of Morristown, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because of
lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein elects to
refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) of this section to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under IC 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
§ 101.12 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-2018, passed 8-22-18)
CHAPTER 102: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
102.01   State law adopted by reference
   
102.02   Administration; enforcement; hearings
   
102.03   Declaration as public nuisance
   
102.04   Building and Planning Director to administer chapter
   
102.05   Unsafe building determination
   
102.06   Order requiring action
   
102.07   Unsafe Building Fund
   
102.08   Definition
   
102.09   State law references
   
102.10   Violations
§ 102.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   IC 36-7-9 et seq. is hereby adopted by reference as the Town of Morristown
Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the town for the inspection,
repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by that law and the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.02 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT; HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be the executive department authorized to
administer this chapter.
   (B)   The “Enforcement Authority”as defined by IC 36-7-9-2 shall be the Town
Building and Planning Director, or such organization that the town may contract
with to provide building inspection services for the town.
   (C)   The “Hearing Authority” shall be the Town Council.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.03 DECLARATION AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the Building and Planning Director to be unsafe as defined in
this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.04 BUILDING AND PLANNING DIRECTOR TO ADMINISTER CHAPTER.
   The Building and Planning Director shall be authorized to administer this
chapter.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.05 UNSAFE BUILDING DETERMINATION.
   (A)   A building or structure, or any part of a building or structure, that
is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building conditions or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance;
is considered an unsafe building.
   (B)   An unsafe building and the tract of real property on which the unsafe
building is located are considered unsafe premises.
   (C)   The Building and Planning Director is authorized to adopt written
policies and guidelines to use in determining whether buildings or structures
are unsafe or dangerous.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.06 ORDER REQUIRING ACTION.
   (A)   The Building and Planning Director may issue an order requiring action
relative to any unsafe premises. The following orders become final ten days
after notice is given, unless a hearing is requested before the ten days end by
a person holding a fee interest, life estate, or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser in the unsafe premises:
      (1)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion by unauthorized
persons, in accordance with a uniform standard established by ordinance;
      (2)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (3)   Removal of trash, debris, or fire hazardous material in and about
the unsafe premises.
   (B)   (1)   The following orders require a hearing before they become final:
         (a)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy, or use by a statute, a rule adopted under IC 4-22-
2, or an ordinance;
         (b)   Removal of part of an unsafe building;
         (c)   Removal of an unsafe building; and
         (d)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a
period of more than 90 days:
            1.   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
effects of weather;
            2.   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
            3.   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and
premises.
      (2)   Any person having substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises may appear in person or by counsel at the hearing.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.07 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of IC 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.08 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present possessory
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser. The interest
reflected by a deed, lease, license, mortgage, land sale contract, lien, or
evidence of it is:
      (1)   Recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or
      (2)   The subject of a written information that is received by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and includes the name and address of the holder of the interest
described.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.09 STATE LAW REFERENCES.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
§ 102.10 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter shall be addressed as established in IC 36-7-9 et
seq. as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-27-22)
CHAPTER 103: NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
103.01   Relation to health and welfare
   
103.02   Administrative office
   
103.03   Standards for posting of house numbers
§ 103.01 RELATION TO HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   The numbering and/or renumbering of houses and other structures in an
orderly and systematic manner will make the location of such houses and
structures more expeditious in cases of fire emergencies, in situations
involving immediate need for medical attention for members of family or
occupants of a building and in instances where police protection may be
required with haste. An orderly and systematic house numbering process will
also enhance the delivery of goods and services, as well as increase the
efficiency of operations such as postal delivery.
(Ord. 03-2014, passed 2-26-14)
§ 103.02 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   The Morristown Plan Commission shall act as the Administrative Office
(hereinafter "Administrative Office") in charge of issuing numbers to houses or
structures in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrative Office shall issue numbers to all new houses and structures,
renumber houses and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do so in the
implementation of a uniform system, and cause the numbering of all existing
homes or structures which are not numbered to be numbered in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-2014, passed 2-26-14)
§ 103.03 STANDARDS FOR POSTING OF HOUSE NUMBERS.
   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
jurisdictional area of the town shall post numbers in a location providing easy
identification from the abutting street or road. Such official number may be
placed attached to the mail box (as according to postal regulations) in which
event it shall be on both sides of the mailbox, or on a post or outside light,
or on any prominent place on the house or structure so that the number is
identifiable from the road, and it is recommended that such number be at least
a minimum of four inches in height.
   (A)   If more than one house or structure share a common driveway, the
officially assigned number shall be placed both on the mailbox and on a
prominent place on or near the particular building itself, so as to make
identification of the address as easy as possible for emergency responders.
This number should be placed at a point on the building closest to the normal
entrance to the property from the driveway and meet the above minimum size
recommendation.
   (B)   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall be renumbered in order that the same may comply with the
uniform numbering system and so that the numerical harmony throughout an area
or areas is substantially achieved.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation owning or occupying a building who
shall fail to number such building or who shall fail to maintain the number of
such building as provided in this chapter shall be deemed to have violated the
provisions of this chapter. Civil proceedings may be instituted against any
alleged violator, and upon the finding of a violation the court may enter
judgment in an amount up to $300 for each day of violation.
   (D)   Any decision of the Administrative Office under this chapter may be
appealed by the filing of a petition to the Town Council pursuant to its
procedures. Decisions of the Town Council may be appealed by the filing of a
Petition for a Writ of Certiorari in the Circuit or Superior Courts of Shelby
County pursuant to Indiana statues. Such petition must be presented to the
court within 30 days after the entry of the decision of the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-2014, passed 2-26-14)
CHAPTER 104: SMALL CELL AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
104.01   Applicability
   
104.02   Definitions
   
104.03   General standards
   
104.04   New wireless support structures
   
104.05   Substantial modification
   
104.06   Collocation
   
104.07   Construction, placement or use of small cell facilities
   
104.08   Construction requirements
§ 104.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all rights-of-way (“ROW” within the town, as
designated from time-to-time, and is intended to implement provisions of IC 8-
1-32.3.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
§ 104.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of wireless communications
service.
   BASE STATION. A station located at a specific site that is authorized to
communicate with mobile stations. The term includes all radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial cables, power supplies, and other electronics associated with
a station.
   COLLOCATION. The placement or installation of wireless facilities on
existing structures that include a wireless facility, small cell facility, or a
wireless support structure, including water towers and other buildings or
structures. The term includes the placement, replacement, or modification of
wireless facilities within an approved equipment compound.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the meaning set forth in IC 8-1-2.6-13.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN.
      (1)   When referring to a new wireless support structure, means a written
plan for construction that demonstrates that the aesthetics of the wireless
support structure is substantially similar to the street lights located nearest
the proposed location; includes the total height and width of the wireless
facility and wireless support structure, including cross section and elevation,
footing, foundation and wind speed details; a structural analysis indicating
the capacity for future and existing antennas, and the identity and
qualifications of each person directly responsible for the design and
construction; and signed and sealed documentation from the applicant that shows
the proposed location of the wireless facility, small cell facility, or
wireless support structure, and all easements and existing structures within
1,200 feet of such wireless facility, small cell facility, or wireless support
structure.
      (2)   When referring to a substantial modification of wireless support
structure means a plan that describes the proposed modifications to the
wireless support structure, and all equipment and network components, including
antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and
related equipment.
   ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION TOWER. A structure that physically supports high
voltage overhead power lines. The term does not include a utility pole.
   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. The area that:
      (1)   Surrounds or is near the base of a wireless support structure or
small cell facility; and
      (2)   Encloses wireless facilities.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. Does not include a utility pole or an electrical
transmission tower.
   MAKE-READY WORK. All engineering, inspection, design, planning,
construction, or other work reasonably necessary to prepare poles for the
installation of permittee’s attachments, including without limitation, work
related to transfers, rearrangement and placement of existing poles or
equipment, and the addition of new poles or equipment.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell facility to which both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The small cell facility is not larger in dimension than:
         (a)   Twenty-four inches in length;
         (b)   Fifteen inches in width; and
         (c)   Twelve inches in height;
      (2)   If the small cell facility has an exterior antenna, the exterior
antenna is not longer than 11 inches.
   PERMIT AUTHORITY. The Town Planning and Building Department.
   PERMITTEE. A person who submits an application for permit to the permit
authority.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Shall have the meaning as set forth in IC 8-1-2-101, as if
stated verbatim herein.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY.
      (1)   A personal wireless service facility (as defined by the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996 as in effect on July 1, 2015); or
      (2)   A wireless facility that satisfies the following requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna, including exposed elements, has a volume of six
cubic feet or less; and
         (b)   The primary equipment enclosure located with the facility has a
volume of 28 cubic feet or less. The volume of the primary equipment enclosure
does not include the following equipment that is located outside the primary
equipment enclosure:
            1.   Electric meters.
            2.   Concealment equipment.
            3.   Telecommunications demarcation boxes.
            4.   Ground based enclosures.
            5.   Back up power systems.
            6.   Grounding equipment.
            7.   Power transfer switches.
            8.   Cut off switches.
   SMALL CELL NETWORK. A collection of interrelated small cell facilities
designed to deliver wireless service.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION OF A WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   The mounting of a wireless facility on a wireless support structure
in a manner that:
         (a)   Increases the height of the wireless support structure by the
greater of:
            1.   Ten percent of the original height of the wireless support
structure; or
            2.   Twenty feet;
         (b)   Adds an appurtenance to the wireless support structure that
protrudes horizontally from the wireless support structure more than the
greater of:
            1.   Twenty feet; or
            2.   The width of the wireless support structure at the location of
the appurtenance; or
         (c)   Increases the square footage of the equipment compound in which
the wireless facility is located by more than 2,500 square feet.
      (2)   The term SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION does not include the following:
         (a)   Increasing the height of a wireless support structure to avoid
interfering with an existing antenna;
         (b)   Increasing the diameter or area of a wireless support structure
to:
            1.   Shelter an antenna from inclement weather; or
            2.   Connect an antenna to the wireless support structure by cable.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Owned or operated by:
         (a)   A public utility;
         (b)   A communications service provider;
         (c)   A municipality;
         (d)   An electric membership corporation; or
         (e)   A rural electric cooperative; and
      (2)   Designed or used to:
         (a)   Carry lines, cables, or wires for telephone, cable television,
or electricity:
         (b)   Provide lighting;
         (c)   Provide traffic control; or
         (d)   Provide signage.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Services, whether mobile or at a fixed
location, that are provided using wireless facilities through licensed or
unlicensed spectrum.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   The set of equipment and network components that are:
         (a)   Owned and operated by a communications service provider; and
         (b)   Necessary to provide wireless communications service.
      (2)   The term does not include a wireless support structure.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A freestanding structure that is:
         (a)   Designed to support; or
         (b)   Capable of supporting;
wireless facilities.
      (2)   The term does not include a utility pole or an electrical
transmission tower.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
§ 104.03 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permits. A person that provides wireless communications service or
otherwise makes available infrastructure for wireless communications service
must apply for a permit through the permit authority to:
      (1)   Construct or locate a new small cell facility or wireless support
structure;
      (2)   Perform a substantial modification to a wireless support structure;
or
      (3)   Collocate wireless facilities on existing structures.
   (B)   Permit fee. The permit Fee for each application submitted under this
chapter $100, excluding any fees for the construction, placement or use of
small cell facilities on utility poles owned or controlled by the town.
   (C)   Antenna shielding preference. The town desires to maintain the beauty
of its community. Where possible, applicants shall place the antenna inside the
pole when erecting a new pole or replacing a current pole.
   (D)   Collocation preference. The permit authority may propose, as an
alternative location for a proposed small cell facility or wireless facility,
that the facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or on an existing
wireless support structure, if the existing utility pole or the existing
wireless support structure is located within 50 feet of the location proposed
in the application.
   (E)   Specifications. New wireless facilities and wireless support
structures located within the town’s ROW shall meet the following
specifications:
      (1)   Overall maximum antenna and tower height. Thirty-five feet from AGL
(at grade level). The antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas, or
dish-shaped antennas, cannot have a surface area of more than seven cubic feet
in volume.
      (2)   Minimum tower separation and clearance requirements. Wireless
support structures may be attached to a utility pole, existing wireless support
structures or small cell facilities and city-owned infrastructure only where
such pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a distance
equal to 100% of the height of such facility to any residential building and no
closer than 1,200 feet from any other personal wireless telecommunication
facility. If the facilities are located in the public ROW, a separation or
lesser clearance may be allowed by the permit authority an administrative
variance to this chapter when the applicant establishes that the lesser
separation or clearance is necessary to close a significant coverage or
capacity gap in the applicant’s services, or to otherwise provide adequate
services to customers, and the proposed antenna or facility is the least
intrusive means to do so within the ROW.
      (3)   Wireless support structures or small cell facilities must consist
of metal poles matching the town’s street light poles, per engineering
specifications as may be amended from time to time by the Town Building and
Planning Department. Wireless support structures and small cell facilities
shall include luminaires that match the town’s specifications for lighting and
be maintained in good working order at the cost of the applicant, including,
but not limited to the cost of electricity. Any antenna equipment, components,
or facilities mounted to the support structures (antenna or other permitted
equipment) shall also be matching in color to the pole.
      (4)   All facility equipment at a single facility, with the exception of
the antenna itself, shall be ground mounted in a cabinet having an area not to
exceed 40 cubic feet and no greater than 48 inches overall height. Under
special circumstances based on a mutual agreement, the permit authority may
allow a pole mounted cabinet with dimension not exceeding 20 inches by 20
inches by six inches (20" x 20" x 6"), ground mounted cabinet not to exceed two
feet by two feet by one foot (2' x 2' x 1') and shrouding and landscaping to
mitigate the visual impact of the equipment. If a mutual agreement cannot be
reached, the Town Building and Planning Department shall intervene and make a
determination.
         (5)   All support structures shall have a plaque identifying the
structure, the owner and the owner’s contact information, and said plaque shall
not exceed one-quarter of a square foot.
         (6)   All wiring and fiber shall be concealed within the wireless
support structure or small cell facility, and all conduit, wiring and fiber
shall be buried between structures and/or structures and ground mounted
cabinets. All service lines (e.g., electric lines) to the wireless support
structure or small cell facility must be buried, unless the service lines in
the area adjacent to the wireless support structure or small cell facility are
aerial. If so, the service lines to the wireless support structure or small
cell facility can also be aerial, except for any service drop crossing a street
or roadway. In this situation, the service lines would need to be bored and
located under such street or roadway.
         (7)   Wireless support structures and small cell facilities and their
components, shall be designed to blend into the surrounding environment through
the use of color, camouflaging and architectural treatment and the entire
facility shall be aesthetically and architecturally compatible with its
environment. The use of materials compatible with the surrounding environment
is required for associated support structures, which shall be designed to
architecturally match the exterior of residential or commercial structures
within the neighborhood or area. Specific requirements for the aesthetics of
the wireless support structures and small cell facilities and their components
shall be in accordance with standards established by the Town Building and
Planning Department, from time to time.
         (8)   Grounding. The wireless support structure or small cell
facility, and its components must be grounded in accordance with the
requirements of the electrical code currently in effect in the town.
   (F)   Continued operation. A person receiving a permit for: (1) new
construction of a wireless support structure; (2) substantial modification of a
wireless support structure; (3) collocation of wireless facilities on an
existing structure; or (4) construction, placement and use of small cell
facilities, inherently agrees that if the wireless support structure, small
cell facility, or wireless facilities are not used for the intended purpose for
a period of six consecutive months, they will be removed by the facilities
owner at its expense. Should such owner fail to remove the wireless support
structure, small cell facility, or wireless facility after 30 business days
from the date a notice of violation is issued by the town, the town may remove
such structure or facilities and bill the owner for the costs of removal and
cleanup of the site. A failure to timely pay such fee may result in the
imposition of a lien against the facility owner and the prohibition of the
issuance of a new permit under this chapter. The owner of any facility shall
annually file a copy of any inspections completed on such wireless support
structure, small cell facility or wireless facilities with the permit authority
for continued operation with the use of the wireless support structure, small
cell facility, or wireless facilities.
   (G)   Confidential information. All confidential information submitted by an
applicant shall be maintained to the extent authorized by IC 5-14-3 et seq.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
§ 104.04 NEW WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Contents of application. An application for a new wireless support
structure permit shall include the following:
      (1)   A statement that the applicant is a person that either provides
wireless communications service or owns or otherwise makes available
infrastructure required for that service.
      (2)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant.
      (3)   The location of the proposed or affected wireless support structure
or wireless facility.
      (4)   A construction plan, as defined herein, that describes the proposed
wireless support structure, the height of the proposed structure, and all
equipment and network components, including antennas, transmitters, receivers,
base stations, power supplies, cabling, and related equipment sufficient to
determine compliance with the standards set forth herein. The construction plan
must also include evidence of conformance with all applicable building permit
requirements.
      (5)   Evidence supporting the choice of location, including, without
limitation:
         (a)   A sworn statement from the individual responsible for the choice
of location demonstrating that collocation of wireless facilities on an
existing wireless support structure was not a viable option because
collocation:
            1.   Would not result in the same wireless service functionality,
coverage and capacity;
            2.   Is technically infeasible; or
            3.   Is an economic burden to the applicant.
   (B)   Application. An applicant may submit one application requesting no
more than five wireless service facilities permits. The permit authority may
issue a single permit for all wireless support structures included in the
application rather than individual permits for each wireless support structure.
   (C)   Variances. If the proposed wireless support structure is not a
permitted use under an applicable zoning ordinance, the applicant shall
additionally submit evidence showing that the application complies with the
criteria for a variance of use from the terms of the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Procedure/review of permit.
      (1)   The permit authority shall promptly review for completeness every
application duly filed with the town which requests authorization to place or
construct wireless support structures within the town’s ROW. Every applicant
shall be notified within ten business days of the town’s receipt of an
application as to whether its application is complete.
      (2)   Within 90 days of receipt of the completed application, or not more
than 120 days in any case in which the approval of a variance of use is
necessary, the permit authority shall review the application to determine if
the application complies with the standards set forth by this chapter and the
permit authority. If the permit authority determines that an application is not
complete, the permit authority shall notify the applicant in writing of all
defects in the application. An applicant that receives a written notice of
incompletion may cure the defects and resubmit the application within 30 days
of receiving the notice.
      (3)   If an applicant has requested additional time to amend its
application or requested or agreed to a continuance during the review or
hearing process, then the period of time prescribed above shall be extended for
a corresponding amount of time.
   (E)   Written determinations.
      (1)   A written determination shall clearly state the basis for the
decision to approve or deny an application. If the permit authority denies an
application, the written notice must include the basis for such denial. A
notice is considered written if it is included in the minutes of a public
meeting of the permit authority.
      (2)   If the permit authority approves an application, the permit is
valid for 90 days, if the applicant fails to complete the work within 90 days,
the permit is void and must be resubmitted.
   (F)   Failure to notify. If the permit authority fails to notify an
applicant in writing within ten business days whether its application is
complete, the application is considered complete. If the permit authority fails
to notify an applicant within 90 days (or 120 days for zoning approval) whether
its application has been approved or denied, the application shall be
considered approved. If an applicant requested additional time to amend its
application, then the 90-day (or 120-day) review period specified above shall
be extended for a corresponding amount of time.
   (G)   Deadlines for final actions. For purposes of making a written
determination either approving or denying an application, a reasonable period
of time is not more than 90 days from the date that the applicant is notified
that the application is complete, or not more than 120 days in any case in
which the approval of a variance of use is necessary. If a use variance is
deemed necessary by the permit authority, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
conduct a public hearing on the request and shall make a decision on the
request at the meeting at which it is first presented. Decisions made by the
Board of Zoning Appeals after a public hearing conducted in accordance with
this section are considered zoning decisions for purposes of IC 36-7-4 and are
subject to judicial review under the IC 36-7-4-1600 et seq.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
§ 104.05 SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Contents of application. An application for substantial modification
of a wireless support structure shall include:
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant,
and a statement that indicates the applicant is a person that either provides
wireless communication service or owns or otherwise makes available
infrastructure required for that service;
      (2)   The location of the proposed or affected wireless support
structure; and
      (3)   A construction plan, as defined herein, that describes the proposed
modifications to the wireless support structure and all equipment and network
components, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power
supplies, cabling, and related equipment. The construction plan must also
include evidence of conformance with all applicable building permit
requirements.
   (B)   Application. An applicant may submit one application requesting
modifications to no more than five wireless service facilities. The permit
authority may issue a single permit for all wireless service facilities
included in the application rather than individual permits for each wireless
service facility.
   (C)   Variances. If the proposed substantial modification of a wireless
support structure is not a permitted use under an applicable zoning ordinance,
the application shall include evidence showing that the application complies
with the criteria for a variance of use from the terms of the underlying zoning
ordinance.
   (D)   Procedure/review of application.
      (1)   The permit authority shall promptly review for completeness every
application duly filed with the town which requests authorization to modify
wireless support structures in the town’s ROW. Every applicant shall be
notified within ten business days of the town’s receipt of an application as to
whether its application is complete.
      (2)   Within 90 days of receipt of the completed application, or not more
than 120 days in any case in which the approval of a variance of use is
necessary, the permit authority shall review the application to determine if
the application complies with the standards set forth by this chapter and the
permit authority. If the permit authority determines that an application is not
complete, the permit authority shall notify the applicant in writing of all
defects in the application. An applicant that receives a written notice of
incompletion may cure the defects and resubmit the application within 30 days
of receiving the notice.
      (3)   If an applicant has requested additional time to amend its
application or requested or agreed to a continuance during the review or
hearing process, then the period of time prescribed above shall be extended for
a corresponding amount of time.
   (E)   Written determinations.
      (1)   A written determination shall clearly state the basis for the
decision to approve or deny an application. If the permit authority denies an
application, the written notice must include such basis for denial. A notice is
considered written if it is included in the minutes of a public meeting of the
permit authority.
      (2)   If the permit authority approves an application, the permit is
valid for 90 days. If the applicant fails to complete the work within 90 days,
the permit is void and must be resubmitted.
   (F)   Failure to notify. If the permit authority fails to notify an
applicant in writing within ten business days whether its application is
complete, the application is considered complete. If the permit authority fails
to notify an applicant within 90 (or 120 days for zoning approval) whether its
application has been approved or denied, the application shall be considered
approved. If an applicant requested additional time to amend its application,
then the 90-day (or 120-day) review period specified above shall be extended
for a corresponding amount of time.
   (G)   Deadlines for final actions. For purposes of making a written
determination either approving or denying an application, a reasonable period
of time is not more than 90 days from the date that the applicant is notified
that the application is complete, or not more than 120 days in any case in
which the approval of a variance of use is necessary. If a use variance is
deemed necessary by the permit authority, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
conduct a public hearing on the request and shall make a decision on the
request at the meeting at which it is first presented. Decisions made by the
Board of Zoning Appeals after a public hearing conducted in accordance with
this section are considered zoning decisions for purposes of IC 36-7-4 and are
subject to judicial review under the IC 36-7-4-1600 et seq.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
§ 104.06 COLLOCATION.
   An application for a permit for collocation shall include:
   (A)   Contents of application. An application for collocation of a wireless
facility on an existing structure shall include:
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant
and a statement that indicates the applicant is a person that either provides
wireless communication service or owns or otherwise makes available
infrastructure required for that service;
      (2)   The location of the proposed or affected wireless support structure
or wireless facility; and
      (3)   A construction plan that includes evidence of conformance with
applicable building permit requirements.
   (B)   Application. An applicant may submit one application requesting no
more than five wireless service facilities for collocation. The permit
authority may issue a single permit for all wireless service facilities
included in the application rather than individual permits for each wireless
service facility.
   (C)   Procedure/review of application.
      (1)   The Permit Authority shall promptly review for completeness every
application duly filed with the town which requests authorization to collocate
a wireless facility in the town’s ROW. Every applicant shall be notified within
ten business days of the city’s receipt of an application as to whether its
application is complete.
      (2)   Within 45 days of receipt of a completed application, the permit
authority shall review the application to determine if the application complies
with the standards set forth by this chapter and the permit authority. If the
permit authority determines that an application is not complete, the permit
authority shall notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the
application. An applicant that receives a written notice of incompletion may
cure the defects and resubmit the application within 15 days of receiving the
notice.
      (3)   If an applicant has requested additional time to amend its
application or requested or agreed to a continuance during the review or
hearing process, then the period of time prescribed above shall be extended for
a corresponding amount of time.
   (D)   Written determinations. A written determination shall state clearly
the basis for the decision to approve or deny an application. If the permit
authority denies an application, the written notice must include the basis for
such denial. A notice is considered written if it is included in the minutes of
a public meeting of the permit authority.
   (E)   Failure to notify. If the permit authority fails to notify an
applicant in writing within ten business days whether its application is
complete, the application is considered complete. If the permit authority fails
to notify an applicant within 45 days whether its application has been approved
or denied, the application shall be considered approved. If an applicant
requested additional time to amend its application, then the 45-day review
period specified above shall be extended for a corresponding amount of time.
   (F)   Deadlines for final actions. For purposes of this collocation section
a reasonable period of time is not more than 45 days from the date that the
applicant is notified that the application is complete. An application for
collocation only is not subject to a public hearing before the Town Building
and Planning Department, but the permit authority may review the application
for compliance with applicable building permit requirements before issuing the
applicant a permit.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
§ 104.07 CONSTRUCTION, PLACEMENT OR USE OF SMALL CELL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Exemption from local zoning. The placement of a small cell facility
and the associated supporting structure in the town’s ROW is exempt from local
zoning review if the total height of the structure supporting the small cell
facility does not exceed the greater of:
      (1)   Fifty feet measured from grade; or
      (2)   The height of any utility pole in place on July 1, 2017, and within
500 feet of the proposed small cell facility, plus ten feet.
   (B)   Contents of application. An application for construction, placement or
use of a small cell facility and associated supporting structure shall include:
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant
and a statement that indicates the applicant is a person that either provides
wireless communication service or owns or otherwise makes available
infrastructure required for that service;
      (2)   The location of the proposed or affected small cell facility and
associated supporting structure; and
      (3)   A construction plan that includes evidence of conformance with
applicable building permit requirements.
   (C)   Application. An applicant may submit one application for multiple
small cell facilities that are located within the city and constitute a small
cell network. The permit authority may issue a single permit for the small cell
network rather than individual permits for each small cell facility.
   (D)   Procedure/review of application.
      (1)   The permit authority shall promptly review for completeness every
application duly filed with the town which requests authorization to construct,
place or use a small cell facility and associated supporting structure in the
town’s ROW. Every applicant shall be notified within ten business days of the
town’s receipt of an application as to whether its application is complete.
      (2)   Within 60 days of receipt of a completed application, the permit
authority shall review the application to determine if the application complies
with the standards set forth by this chapter and the permit authority. If the
permit authority determines that an application is not complete, the permit
authority shall notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the
application. An applicant that receives a written notice of incompletion may
cure the defects and resubmit the application within 15 days of receiving the
notice. If an applicant has requested additional time to amend its application,
then the 60-day review period prescribed above shall be extended for a
corresponding amount of time.
   (E)   Written determinations.
      (1)   A written determination shall clearly state the basis for the
decision to approve or deny an application. If the permit authority denies an
application, the written notice must include the basis for such denial. A
notice is considered written if it is included in the minutes of a public
meeting of the permit authority.
      (2)   If the permit authority approves an application, the permit is
valid for 90 days. If the applicant fails to complete the work within two
years, the permit is void and must be resubmitted.
   (F)   Failure to notify. If the permit authority fails to notify an
applicant in writing within ten business days whether its application is
complete, the application is considered complete. If the permit authority fails
to notify an applicant within 60 days whether its application has been approved
or denied, the application shall be considered approved. If an applicant
requested additional time to amend its application, then the 60-day review
period specified above shall be extended for a corresponding amount of time.
   (G)   Deadlines for final actions. For purposes of this small cell facility
section, a reasonable period of time is not more than 60 days from the date
that the applicant is notified that the application is complete. An application
for construction, placement or use of a small cell facility and additional
supporting structure is not subject to a public hearing before the BPW, but the
permit authority may review the application for compliance with applicable
building permit requirements before issuing the applicant a permit.
   (H)   Construction, placement or use of small cell facilities on a utility
pole owned by the town.
      (1)   The fee for construction, placement or use of a small cell facility
on a utility pole owned or controlled by the town shall be $50 dollars per
utility pole per year.
      (2)   For a utility pole used to provide communications service or
electric service, the parties to the construction, placement, or use shall
comply with the process for make-ready work under 47 U.S.C. 224 and any
associated implementing regulations. The town’s good faith estimate for any
make-ready work necessary to enable the utility pole to support the requested
placement will include pole replacement to the extent necessary.
      (3)   If a utility pole does not support aerial facilities used to
provide communications service or electric service, the town shall provide a
good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the utility
pole to support the requested construction, placement, or use, including pole
replacement if necessary, not later than 60 days after the town’s receipt of a
complete application. Make-ready work, including any pole replacement, shall be
completed not later than 60 days after the applicant’s written acceptance of
the good faith estimate.
      (4)   The amount of any make-ready work, as determined by the town, shall
only be an amount that is required to meet applicable codes, as defined in IC
8-1-32.3-15(b)(3), including all applicable building, fire, electrical,
plumbing and mechanical codes. The fee for any make-ready work shall be
determined by the town on a case by case basis, but in no event shall the fee
exceed actual costs or the amount charged to communications service providers
for similar work or include any consultants’ fees or expenses.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
§ 104.08 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All antennas, telecommunication towers, accessory structures and any other
wiring constructed within the town right-of-way shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   All applicable provisions of the town zoning ordinance and the
Building Code of the State of Indiana, as amended, and the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) when applicable.
   (B)   All wireless facilities, small cell facilities, and wireless support
structures shall be certified by a qualified and licensed professional engineer
to conform to the latest structural standards and wind loading requirements of
the Uniform Building Code, as amended, and the Electronics Industry
Association.
   (C)   All wireless facilities, small cell facilities, and wireless support
structures shall be designed to conform to accepted electrical engineering
methods and practices and to comply with the provisions of the National
Electrical Code, as amended.
   (D)   All wireless facilities, small cell facilities and wireless support
structures shall be constructed to conform to the requirements of the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
   (E)   All wireless facilities, small cell facilities, and wireless support
structures shall be designed and constructed to all application standards of
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Manual, as amended.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-27-22)
CHAPTER 105: LANDLORD REGISTRATION PROGRAM
Section
   
105.01   Definitions
   
105.02   Registration program
   
105.03   Inspection program
   
105.04   Landlord Registration Fund
   
105.05   Performance measure and reporting
 
   
105.99   Penalty
§ 105.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Town of Morristown Planning Commission.
   LANDLORD. Has the meaning set forth in IC 32-31-3-3.
   OWNER. Has the meaning set forth in IC 32-31-3-4.
   PERSON. Has the meaning set forth in IC 32-31-3-5.
   RENTAL UNIT. Has the meaning set forth in IC 32-31-3-8, except that:
      (1)   An owner-occupied structure that:
         (a)   Has no portion of the area thereof promised for the use of a
residential tenant; or
         (b)   Has a single sleeping unit being rented to a tenant;
shall not be considered a RENTAL UNIT.
      (2)   In addition, a property that is:
         (a)   Booked for rental to the public or rented to the public only for
a rental period of less than 30 consecutive days at any one time; and
         (b)   Rented to the public not more than a total of 180 days during a
calendar year;
shall not be considered a RENTAL UNIT.
   RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. Has the meaning set forth in IC 36-1-20-1.5.
   TENANT. Has the meaning set forth in IC 32-31-3-10.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-25-22)
§ 105.02 REGISTRATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   All owners or landlords or rental units, whether occupied or offered
or advertised for rental, or rental units offered with an option for sale
through seller-financed agreements without recorded title transfer (e.g., rent-
to-own) within the town must register with the Commission via a method or form
prescribed by the Commission. The registration form (a copy of which is
attached to Ord. 2022-08 and is available for public inspection during normal
hours in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer) shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, telephone number, and a physical business or domicile
address of the owner. A secondary address (not required to be physical) can be
used for availability to the public;
      (2)   The name, telephone number and address of:
         (a)   A person residing in Indiana authorized to manage the rental
unit; and
         (b)   A person who is authorized to act as agent for the owner for
purposes of service of process and receiving and receipting for notices and
demands, as provided in IC 32-31-3-18;
         (c)   An affirmation that the rental units, the real property of which
the rental units are a part, and any other rental unit property owned or
registered by the owner in the town, are not subject to any un-remediated
citation of violation of the state and local codes and ordinances;
         (d)   An affirmation that there is not more than one delinquent
payment of real property taxes, assessments, or penalties (other than those
that are the subject of an ongoing appeal or bankruptcy proceedings) with
respect to the property, or any other rental unit property owned or registered
by the owner in Shelby County;
         (e)   A statement of the number of rental units on each separate
parcel of real property covered by the registration.
   (B)   Beginning September 1,2022, an owner or landlord of a rental unit must
pay to the Commission an initial registration fee of $5. Only one registration
fee is required for all rental units in a rental unit community. If a rental
unit is not part of a rental unit community, a separate registration fee must
be paid for each separate parcel of real property on which a rental unit is
located, unless they are all registered at the same time.
   (C)   In the event of a change of ownership, the new owner or landlord must,
not later than 30 days after the change of ownership, pay the registration fee
of $5 and provide updated registration information to the Commission.
   (D)   Registrations must be renewed annually. The renewal fee may be up to
$5, as determined by the Commission.
   (E)   The owner or landlord must notify the Commission within 30 days of any
changes to registration information.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-25-22) Penalty, see §
105.99
§ 105.03 INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   Notwithstanding IC 36-1-20-4.1, no inspection program will be implemented to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-25-22)
§ 105.04 LANDLORD REGISTRATION FUND.
   There is hereby created a special fund, to be designated the Landlord
Registration Fund. This Fund shall be a continuing, non-reverting fund, with
all balances remaining therein at the end of the year, and such balances shall
not revert to the town general funds. The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit in this
Fund all fees assessed and collected pertaining exclusively to a rental unit or
rental unit community. This Fund shall be dedicated solely to reimbursing the
costs actually incurred relating to the landlord registration program.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-25-22)
§ 105.05 PERFORMANCE MEASURE AND REPORTING.
   (A)   The Commission shall measure the success of the landlord registration
program using without limitation, but at a minimum, the following performance
measures:
      (1)   Number of landlords registered;
      (2)   Number of parcels registered;
      (3)   Number of fines issued and collected and the reason for the fine;
      (4)   Number of citations of violation of the state and local codes and
ordinances opened against properties listed on the landlord registry;
      (5)   Status of the Landlord Registration Fund.
   (B)   Within six months of adoption of this section, the Commission shall
create individual numeric benchmarks for, at a minimum, each of the performance
measures above, as a means of tracking and measuring the annual performance of
the program. An annual report shall be posted on the Commission’s website for
each of the above measures. Additionally, the Commission shall, no less than
annually, report to the Town Council on the progress made in implementing the
landlord registration program. The Commission shall report on the annual
increase or decrease for each performance measure contained in this section
compared to the previous year(s). In its annual report to the Town Council, the
Commission shall additionally make recommendations on any needed changes to the
landlord registration program, including, but not limited to, eliminating the
landlord registration program if it is not deemed to be effective.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-25-22)
§ 105.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Failure to register as required by §
105.02 is subject to admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty for
each rental unit or rental unit community in violation in an amount provided
herein.
      (2)   Failure to update the registration within 30 days of a change in
ownership as required by §
105.02 is subject to admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty for
each rental unit or rental unit community in violation in an amount provided
herein.
      (3)   Failure to renew the registration as of January 1 of each calendar
year as required by §
105.02 is subject to admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty for
each rental unit or rental unit community in violation in an amount provided
herein.
      (4)   Failure to update the registration within 30 days of a change in
anything other than ownership as required by §
105.02 is subject to admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty for
each rental unit or rental unit community in violation in an amount provided
herein.
   (B)   In addition to civil penalties, the Commission may seek injunctive
relief to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The penalties allowed under this section may not be imposed until
after:
      (1)   A notice of violation has been issued to the owner or the owner’s
designee by personal service or by first class United States Mail, postage
prepaid;
      (2)   Passage of 30 days, which must be stated in the notice, for the
violation to be cured; and
      (3)   Failure of the violation to be cured within the time stated in the
notice.
   (D)   The following provisions and their respective civil penalties are
designated for violations of this chapter.
 
Section      Subject Matter                                     Civil Penalty
§           Failure to register as a landlord                  $500
105.99(A)(1)
§           Failure to update the landlord registration upon   $250
105.99(A)(2) change in ownership
§           Failure to renew annual registration as a landlord $100
105.99(A)(3)
§           Failure to update the landlord registration upon   $100
105.99(A)(4) change of information, other than ownership
 
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-25-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING
      
111.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
112.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   TAXICABS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Title
   
110.03   Definitions
Sign Permits
   
110.20   Permits required
   
110.21   Application; fees
   
110.22   Effect of sign permit issuance
   
110.23   Nullification
   
110.24   Permit exceptions
Inspection, Removal, Safety
   
110.30   Inspection
   
110.31   Removal of signs
   
110.32   Maintenance
   
110.33   Abandoned signs
   
110.34   Street improvement projects
   
110.35   Assurance of discontinuance
Sign Classifications and Requirements
   
110.40   Prohibited signs
   
110.41   Exemptions
   
110.42   Temporary signs
   
110.43   Illumination
Sign Standards by Zone Districts
   
110.50   General
   
110.51   Residential
   
110.52   Commercial districts
   
110.53   Commercial and industrial districts
Major Highway Signage
   
110.60   Purpose and intent
   
110.61   Permitted locations
   
110.62   Prohibited signs
   
110.63   Size and height restrictions
   
110.64   Minimum proximity
   
110.65   Structure specifications
Enforcement
   
110.70   Authorization to enforce and inspect
   
110.71   Interpretation
   
110.72   Right to appeal
   
110.73   Civil remedies
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code is to regulate all signs
in the incorporated area of the town so as to protect the general public and
promote traffic safety and public health. The chapter establishes on-premise
sign standards for all zoning districts in the town and off-premise sign
standards.
§ 110.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Outdoor Advertising Sign Code of the town
and may be so cited and pleaded and shall be referred to herein as the Outdoor
Advertising Sign Code.
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   AREA OR SURFACE AREA OF A SIGN.
      (1)   The surface area shall be that area which is enclosed by one
rectangle, the sides of which make contact with the extreme points or edges of
the sign excluding the supporting structure which does not form part of the
sign proper or of the display; or
      (2)   The area of a sign composed of characters or words attached
directly to a large, uniform building wall surface and shall be the smallest
combination of rectangles which enclose the whole group, including any loops or
special symbols.
   BILLBOARD SIGN. A billboard shall be defined as a sign used to display
information or products which are not located on the same premises as the
billboard, regardless of whether or not there is a service fee or rental fee
for such a sign.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The linear length of a building facing the right-of-way
or the linear length of the right-of-way facing the building, whichever is
smaller.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot establishing
the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of a building or
structure and the front lot line.
   COPY (PERMANENT OR TEMPORARY). The wording or any graphic illustrations on a
sign surface either in permanent or removable letter form.
   ENCLOSED MALL SHOPPING CENTER. A commercial real estate development
comprised of department, retail, or commercial stores, the majority of which
stores have entrances facing upon a common enclosed mall. The term ENCLOSED
MALL SHOPPING CENTER as used herein shall not include free standing buildings
located at or about such enclosed mall shopping center.
   ERECTED. Attached, altered, built, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, or
moved, and shall include the painting of wall signs and any attached
embellishments.
   HIGH-RISE SIGN. A high-rise sign shall be defined as a sign erected at a
minimum height of 50 or more feet above grade level and upon premises of the
business being advertised. High-rise signs are permitted along interstate
highways only. Other locations are prohibited.
   LOT. A single parcel of land which meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Part of a properly recorded subdivision; or
      (2)   Duly recorded under the state recording statutes.
   MAINTAIN or MAINTENANCE. The act of permitting a sign, structure, or part of
each to continue; or to repair or to refurbish a sign, structure, or part of
either.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roof-like shelter extending from part or all of the
building face over a right-of-way (sidewalk) public or private and constructed
of some durable material such as metal, glass, plastic, or wood.
   MULTI-FACED SIGNS. If a sign has two display or advertising surfaces, the
area of any face shall be no greater than 100% of the maximum area permitted
for a single-faced sign in the particular district. Should a sign have more
than two faces, the area of any single face shall be no greater than 50% of the
maximum area permitted for a single-faced sign, with a total maximum area no
greater than 400 square feet.
   OWNER. A person recorded as such on official records and including a duly
authorized agent, a purchaser, a devisee, or a person having a vested or
contingent interest in the property in question as long as written proof of
such can be produced upon request.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, and the
like, singular or plural.
   PREMISES. An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which,
because of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of
real estate.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY OR ROADWAY WIDTH. A particular distance across a public or
private roadway from property line to property line, such distance being
reserved for the movement of vehicles, persons, goods, services. Such right-of-
way improvements are in the form of hard surface materials (black-top, cement,
and the like) and soft surface (grass, dirt areas, and the like).
   SIGN. A single- or multi-faced structure or device designed for the purpose
of informing or attracting the attention of persons not on the premises on
which the structure or device is located.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign that no longer correctly directs or exhorts any
person, advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product, or activity
conducted or product available on the premises where such sign is displayed.
   SIGN, BANNER. A temporary sign composed of lightweight material either
enclosed or not enclosed in a rigid frame, secured, or mounted so as to allow
movement of the sign caused by movement of the atmosphere.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business, building,
product, activity, or service, manufactured, sold, or offered upon the premises
as the primary use where such sign is located.
   SIGN, DISPLAY. A sign that is located on and is incidental to a display of
merchandise.
   SIGN, ELECTRIC. Any sign containing electric wiring, this includes signs
illuminated by an exterior floodlight.
   SIGN, EXEMPT. Sign exempt from normal permit requirements.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign which is supported by one or more uprights or bases in
the ground with sign surface mounted above, the maximum height of which shall
not exceed four feet above grade level.
   SIGN, IDENTITY. Any sign or sign structure not permanently affixed or
installed and intended for short-term use.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. Signs which were lawful prior to the time this chapter
was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted
under the terms of this chapter shall be deemed legal nonconforming.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign identifying or providing directions to a business
or organization which is located on premises separate from the location of the
sign.
   SIGN, POLE. A sign which is supported by one or more poles or uprights in
the ground with sign surface mounted at a minimum height of nine feet above
grade level to the bottom of the sign.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign which by its design and construction is readily
movable from one location to another. Such a sign may be mounted on wheels or
on a small trailer frame, or may be mounted on a supportive frame which is
designed to sit on top of the ground or to be temporarily staked or tied to the
ground.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected, constructed, and maintained upon the roof of a
building.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported, or is capable
of supporting a sign, including decorative covers, poles, piers, and other
structural components.
   SIGN, WALL. One affixed directly to or painted on or otherwise inscribed on
an exterior wall and confined within the limits of any building.
   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign installed inside a window for purposes of viewing from
outside the premises. This term does not include merchandise located in a
window.
   STRIP SHOPPING CENTER. A commercial real estate development comprised of
four or more retail or commercial stores situated side by side and generally
facing a street or highway right-of-way.
   VEHICLES. Automobiles, trucks, trailers, railroad cars, construction
equipment, and other such mobile equipment whose major purpose is other than
display of advertising.
SIGN PERMITS
§ 110.20 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to erect, construct, enlarge, move or convert any sign within the
jurisdiction of the Town Planning Commission, or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a sign permit for each sign from the Town Building
Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Application for a permit shall be made to the Building Commissioner
upon a form provided, and shall be accompanied by such information as may be
required to assure compliance with the laws and regulations of the county,
including:
      (1)   Name and address of the property owner of the premise on which the
sign is located or is to be located;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
      (3)   Clear and legible drawings with description showing the location of
the sign which is the subject of the permit, and all other signs whose
construction requires permits, when such signs are on the same premises;
      (4)   Drawings showing dimensions, construction supports, sizes,
electrical wiring and components, materials of the sign, method of attachment,
character of attachment, and character of structural members to which
attachment is made. If required by the Town Building Commissioner, engineering
data shall be supplied on plans submitted and certified by a duly licensed
engineer;
      (5)   Any individual or company seeking to erect, construct, alter,
repair, improve, maintain, convert, or manufacture any sign adjacent to or
visible from any state or federal roadway shall register, in writing, a
statement that they have all necessary licenses or approvals from the other
affected governmental agencies; and
      (6)   Permission in writing from the person in possession or ownership of
shopping centers or industrial premises, if applicable, shall be supplied as
part of the application documentation.
   (B)   The application, including all required documentation, shall be filed
with the Town Building Commissioner together with a permit fee as specified by
the Town Plan Commission Fee Schedule. If any sign is hereafter erected,
placed, installed, or otherwise established on any property before obtaining a
permit as required in this chapter, the fees specified shall be doubled.
Payment of such double fee shall not relieve any person from compliance with
other provisions of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code and penalties prescribed
in this chapter.
§ 110.22 EFFECT OF SIGN PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   No permit for a sign issued hereunder shall be deemed to constitute
permission or authorization to maintain an unlawful sign nor shall a permit
issued hereunder constitute a defense in an action to abate an unlawful sign.
§ 110.23 NULLIFICATION.
   A sign permit shall become null and void if the work authorized thereunder
has not been started within a period of 90 days following date of the permit,
and completed within a reasonable time thereafter.
§ 110.24 PERMIT EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall not be considered as creating a sign and therefore shall
not be required to have a sign permit unless otherwise specified:
   (A)   Changeable copy. The changing of advertising copy or messages on an
approved sign such as a theater marquee or an electronic message center and
similar approved signs, which are specifically designed for use of replaceable
copy.
   (B)   Maintenance. Painting, repainting, cleaning, or other normal
maintenance and repair of a sign or sign structure unless a structural change
is involved, or a change in copy is involved.
   (C)   Political campaign signs. Political campaign signs announcing
candidates seeking public political office shall:
      (1)   Be confined within private property and not within the street
right-of-way;
      (2)   Be permitted no more than 60 days prior to a scheduled election;
      (3)   Be removed within 14 days after they election for which they were
made; and
      (4)   Not require a permit.
(Am. Ord. 2023-16, passed 8-9-23)
INSPECTION, REMOVAL, SAFETY
§ 110.30 INSPECTION.
   Signs for which a permit is required may be inspected periodically by the
Building Commissioner or his agent for compliance with this and other codes of
the town.
§ 110.31 REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   The Building Commissioner may order the removal of any sign erected or
maintained in violation of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code. He shall give 30
days' notice in writing by certified mail to the owner of a permanent sign, or
place a notice of such violation on the building, structure, premises, or sign
in violation, to remove the sign or to bring it into compliance. He shall give
a three-day notice for temporary or portable signs.
§ 110.32 MAINTENANCE.
   All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good repair and in safe,
neat, clean, and attractive condition. Failure to comply will automatically
revoke the permit after such noncompliance has been determined by the Building
Commissioner and notice has been given to the owner of the sign as reflected by
the records of the Building Commissioner.
§ 110.33 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the premises upon which
the sign is located when the business which it advertises is no longer
conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails to remove it, the
Building Commissioner shall give the owner 30 days' written notice by certified
mail to remove it. Upon failure to comply with this notice, the Building
Commissioner or his duly authorized representative may remove the sign at cost
to the owner. Where a successor to a defunct business agrees to maintain the
sign as provided in this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code, this removal
requirement shall not apply. The new sign user shall forthwith notify the
Building Commissioner's office, in writing, of this change. No new sign permit
is required, unless the sign is altered or relocated. The Building Commissioner
shall be notified in any matters relating to sign relocations.
§ 110.34 STREET IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   Any sign projecting over a roadway right-of-way at the time of the effective
date of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code which was subject to removal or
relocation at the owner's expense, pursuant to a permit or other ordinance of
the town, shall be removed by the owner, or altered at the owner's expense to
comply with the regulations of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code if, as the
result of, or after completion of a roadway improvement project, that sign does
not or would not comply with the provisions of this Outdoor Advertising Sign
Code.
§ 110.35 ASSURANCE OF DISCONTINUANCE.
   As an additional means of enforcement, the Building Commissioner may accept
an assurance of discontinuance of any act or practice deemed in violation of
any provision of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code, from any owner or person
engaging in such act or practice. Such assurance shall be in writing and shall
specify a time limit during which such discontinuance is to be accomplished.
Failure to perform the assurance shall constitute prima facie proof of a
violation of any provision of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code, which makes
the alleged act or practice unlawful for the purpose of securing an injunctive
relief from a court of competent jurisdiction.
SIGN CLASSIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.40 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are expressly prohibited in all zone districts:
   (A)   A-frame signs. A-frame signs or sandwich board, sidewalk, or curb
signs are prohibited.
   (B)   Abandoned signs. Such business signs that advertise an activity,
business, product, or service no longer conducted or available shall be
prohibited and may be removed by the town.
   (C)   Animated and intensely lighted signs. No sign shall be permitted which
is animated by means of flashing, scintillating, blinking, or traveling lights
or any other device or means not providing constant illumination.
   (D)   Banners and pennants. Banners and pennants shall be permitted so long
as they are at least ten feet from any street right-of-way and located so as
not to obstruct vision or otherwise create a hazard to traffic. No permit shall
be required.
   (E)   Lights and balloons. Search lights, twirling signs, balloons, or other
gas-filled figures shall not be used except as set forth below. Such signs
shall be permitted at the opening of a new business in a commercial or
industrial district for a period not to exceed 60 days; and will be permitted
in residential districts in conjunction with an open house or model
demonstration conducted by a realtor for two days after and not to exceed a
total period of 30 days.
   (F)   Miscellaneous signs and posters. The tacking, pasting, or otherwise
affixing of signs of a miscellaneous character, visible from a roadway, located
on the walls of buildings, barns, sheds, on trees, poles, posts, fences, or
other structures is prohibited unless otherwise permitted by this Outdoor
Advertising Sign Code.
   (G)   Moving signs. No sign or any portion thereof shall be permitted which
moves or assumes any motion, or give the illusion of moving.
   (H)   Off-premise signs. Off-premise signs shall be prohibited except as is
expressly permitted in this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code.
   (I)   Projecting signs. No sign shall project over or into the street right-
of-way.
   (J)   Public areas. No sign shall be permitted which is placed on any curb,
sidewalk, post, pole, electrolier, hydrant, bridge, tree, or other surface
located on public property or over or across any street or roadway except as
otherwise expressly authorized by this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code.
   (K)   Swinging signs. Overhead swinging signs are prohibited.
   (L)   Towers (water, radio, and the like). No sign shall be placed on any
tower or tank without the approval of the Town Plan Commission.
   (M)   Unclassified signs. The following signs are also prohibited which:
      (1)   Bear or contain statements, words, or pictures of an obscene,
pornographic, immoral character, or which contain advertising matter which is
untruthful or will offend public morals or decency;
      (2)   Are painted on or attached to any fence or any wall which is not
structurally a part of a building except to identify a residence or residence
structure by means of posting the name of the occupant or structure, and the
street address;
      (3)   Operate or employ any stereopticon or motion picture projection or
media in conjunction with any advertisements, or have visible moving parts of
any portion of which moves, or gives the illusion of movements except as
permitted in this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code;
      (4)   Emit audible sound, odor, or visible matter;
      (5)   Signs which purport to be, or are an imitation of, or resemble an
official traffic sign or signal, or which bear the words stop, go slow,
caution, danger, warning, or similar words; except as permitted in §
110.41(D);
      (6)   Signs which, by reason of their size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination, may be confused with or constructed as a
traffic-control sign, signal, or device, or the light of an emergency or road
equipment vehicle or which hide from view any traffic or roadway sign or signal
or device;
      (7)   Obstruct any door, fire escape, stairway, or any opening intended
to provide air, egress, or ingress for any building or structure;
      (8)   Were erected before the adoption and effective date of the Outdoor
Advertising Sign Code, and for which a proper permit was not issued; or
      (9)   Are not included under the types of signs permitted in this Outdoor
Advertising Sign Code.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of signs are exempted from all provisions of this
Outdoor Advertising Sign Code, except for construction and safety regulations
and the following requirements:
   (A)   Business identification sign. An identification sign on or near (above
or beside) a public entrance or service entrance to a business in a business,
commercial, or industrial zone is permitted, provided such signs state only the
street address number and name of the business or building, that such sign
shall be mounted flush against the wall, and that such sign shall not exceed
four square feet.
   (B)   Damaged signs. A sign erected under a legally obtained permit which is
damaged or destroyed by wind, weather, or other accidental means beyond the
control of the applicant may be replaced or restored to its original size,
shape, and location (as prior to the accident) without obtaining an additional
permit. Replacement of a damaged or destroyed sign with a new sign of different
size, shape, or location from the original sign shall require a permit.
   (C)   Integral signs. Names of building, date of erection, monumental
citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stones,
concrete, or similar material or made of bronze, aluminum, or other permanent
type construction and made an integral part of the structure.
   (D)   Parking signs. Signs for public and private parking shall be
permitted. Such signs shall be subject to a three-foot setback from right-of-
way, and shall not be used for advertising purposes. Signs shall be no higher
than six feet and no greater than six feet in area. Such signs shall be
installed so as to not present a hazard to traffic entering or leaving the
premises.
   (E)   Private traffic direction signs. Signs directing traffic movement onto
or within a premise. Illumination of these signs shall be permitted in
accordance with §
110.43. The leading edge of such signs shall be a minimum of three feet from
any curb or traffic movement aisle, the sign shall be no higher than three
feet, and no greater than six square feet in area.
   (F)   Public signs. Signs of a noncommercial nature and in the public
interest erected by or on the order of public officers in performance of their
public duty, such as safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic
signs, memorial plaques, signs of historical interest, signs directing the
traveling public to public and quasi-public facilities, or signs on public
buildings or structures, and the like.
   (G)   Small signs. A nameplate which shall not exceed two square feet in
area is permitted for each dwelling unit of a single-family or row structure;
such nameplate shall state nothing other than the name or address of the
occupant, or legal customary home occupation. No other sign shall be allowed.
This paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit each dwelling unit from also
displaying a house numbering plate for identification. Signs on the premises
announcing rooms, apartments, or houses for rent and not exceeding four square
feet in area. Also, provided that the signs are located ten feet from the
street right-of-way.
   (H)   Social or charitable organizations. Signs indicating the names and
locations of churches, charitable organizations, and community service
organizations are permitted, provided that the sign area shall not exceed four
square feet, shall be located at least ten feet off the street right-of-way,
and shall in no way obstruct the view of pedestrians or vehicular traffic. Such
signs shall be permitted as off-premises signs; provided, however, such signs
have a minimum spacing of 500 feet between any two signs in this category.
   (I)   Vehicle signs. Signs on vehicles are permitted, provided the sign is
painted to or attached permanently to the body of the original motor-powered
vehicle and does not project or extend beyond the original manufactured body
proper of the motor-driven vehicle. Such vehicles and semi-trailers shall be
parked a minimum distance of ten feet from any street right-of-way and shall be
located so as to not create an obstruction or hazard to the traveling public.
Trucks and trailers may be used as signs for special events or sales for a
maximum period of 30 days, if trucks or trailers are loaded with sale items.
   (J)   Window signs. Window signs are permitted, provided such signs conform
to the construction, illumination, and safety regulations of this Outdoor
Advertising Sign Code.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be permitted at any location within the town and
shall be required to have a permit unless otherwise specified.
   (A)   Construction signs. Construction signs which identify the architects,
engineers, contractors, and other individuals or firms involved with
construction, but not including any advertisement of any product, and signs
announcing the character of the building enterprise of the purpose for which
the building intended during the construction period to a maximum of 32 square
feet for each firm. The minimum setback shall be ten feet from any street
right-of-way. The sign shall be confined to the site of construction and shall
be removed within 30 days after the end of construction.
   (B)   Garage sale signs. Signs advertising the sale of miscellaneous
household items for the purpose of a residential garage or yard sale shall not
exceed four square feet in area. Such signs may be erected on the premises one
week in advance of the sale and shall be removed within 48 hours after the
sale. No permit shall be required.
   (C)   Political campaign signs. Political campaign signs announcing the
candidates seeking public political office shall be confined within private
property and not within the street right-of-way, shall be permitted no more
than 45 days prior to the scheduled election and shall be removed within 14
days after election for which they were made. Such signs shall not be required
to obtain a permit.
   (D)   Portable signs. One portable sign may be permitted for a time period
not to exceed 60 days in any 180-day period. Renewal permits may be obtained so
long as there are no zoning violations relative to that permit, provided such
sign shall:
      (1)   Be located not less than 10 feet from any public right-of-way.
      (2)   Not obstruct the flow or sight pattern of vehicular traffic on any
established right-of-way.
      (3)   Not be less than ten feet from adjoining residential lot.
      (4)   Have a face not exceeding 32 square feet.
      (5)   Meet the illumination requirements as set forth in §
110.43 and in addition be approved by the Building Commissioner.
   (E)   Real estate signs. One real estate sign advertising the sale, rental,
or lease of the premises or part of the premises on which the sign is displayed
shall not exceed four square feet in residential, and 32 square feet in
commercial zones. Such sign shall be removed within 14 days of the sale,
rental, or lease. The minimum setback from the street right-of-way shall be ten
feet. Signs shall reflect no advertising or promotional material other than to
indicate the party listing the property for sale, rental, or lease. Such a sign
shall not be required to obtain a permit.
   (F)   Street banners. Street banners advertising a public entertainment or
event and only for locations designated by the Building Commissioner, during
and for, 14 days prior and 14 days after the event. Such signs shall not be
required to obtain a permit.
   (G)   Subdivision or multi-family sign.
      (1)   One temporary subdivision or multiple-family project identity sign
indicating only the name or address of the premises or name of the management.
Such a sign shall not exceed 32 square feet or face area and shall be located a
minimum distance of ten feet from any street right-of-way, excepting, however,
for each additional foot (beyond 10) that the setback distance is increased,
the face area of the sign may be increased by one square foot, up to a maximum
allowable size of 100 square feet. The maximum time period will be 12 months
from the date the sign permit is issued.
      (2)   Such sign may be extended for another 12 months by the Town
Building Commissioner or until the project is 85% completed or is occupied.
Permanent identification signs may be obtained pursuant to §
110.51.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.43 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   All illuminated signs must meet the standards as specified in the
National Electrical Code.
   (B)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights, nor shall
any device be utilized which has a changing light intensity, brightness, or
color or gives such an illusion.
   (C)   The full number of illuminating elements thereof shall be kept in
satisfactory working condition or immediately repaired or replaced. Signs that
are only partially illuminated shall meet all electrical requirements for that
portion directly illuminated. All electrical wiring shall be in conduit and not
exposed to the elements or external stress in any way. All electrical signs
shall have a disconnecting switch located in a readily accessible place.
   (D)   Neither the direct nor reflected light from a primary light source
shall create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public or
private roadways.
   (E)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded, or
directed that the light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to
the surrounding areas.
Penalty, see §
110.99
SIGN STANDARDS BY ZONE DISTRICTS
§ 110.50 GENERAL.
   (A)   The following sign standards by districts are intended to include
every zone district within the jurisdiction of the town. The zones are as
defined in the zoning ordinance and official zone map. Only signs as described
herein, and as may be described under §§
110.41 and
110.42 shall be permitted in each particular zone.
   (B)   If any zone is omitted from this section, or if a new zone is created
after enactment of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code, no sign shall be
permitted therein until this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code shall have been
amended to include the new zone.
§ 110.51 RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Scope. This section of the sign code shall apply to all zones
designated by the zoning ordinance as A, A-1, A-2, B, C, SR, and Single Family,
Multiple Family, Cluster Housing, Condominiums, High-Rise Apartments, or any
variety of these.
   (B)   Residential.
      (1)   One nameplate not exceeding a combined area of two square feet in
area is permitted. That nameplate shall not be subject to the permit
requirements of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code.
      (2)   Signs in conjunction with home occupations as defined in the Town
Zoning Ordinance, and no illumination shall be permitted.
      (3)   A church or public building, bulletin board or sign, not exceeding
32 square feet in area. Such sign may be illuminated but shall conform to §
110.43 and division (D) below.
      (4)   Any sign as permitted under §§
110.41 and
110.42 of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code.
      (5)   One subdivision identity sign as permitted under §
110.42 of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code. Such sign shall not be
illuminated. In the event the subdivision has entries from more than one
street, additional identity signs may be permitted by the Town Building
Commissioner.
   (C)   Permitted signs, medium and heavy density.
      (1)   For each duplex or multiple-family building, one nameplate per
occupancy not to exceed two square feet in area is permitted. Such nameplate
shall not be subject to the permit requirements of this Outdoor Advertising
Sign Code. No illumination shall be permitted.
      (2)   Signs in conjunction with home occupations as defined in the Town
Zoning Ordinance. No illumination shall be permitted.
      (3)   A church or public building bulletin board or sign, not exceeding
32 square feet in area. Such sign may be illuminated but shall conform to §
110.43 and division (D) below.
      (4)   For funeral homes or mortuaries, a non-illuminated nameplate shall
be permitted, provided it is not greater than 32 square feet in area.
      (5)   One permanent multi-family project identity sign shall be
permitted. In the event the project has entries from more than one street,
additional identity signs may be permitted by the Building Commissioner. Any
temporary sign as provided in this section shall be removed before a permanent
sign may be erected.
   (D)   Location standards for signs permitted in divisions (A) and (B).
      (1)   A permanent identity sign for a single-family subdivision or for a
multi-family project shall be placed a minimum distance of ten feet from any
street right-of-way. The face of any such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet
in area, excepting, however, for each additional foot (beyond 10) that the
setback distance is increased, the face area of the sign may be increased by
one square foot, up to a maximum allowable size of 100 square feet.
      (2)   Building mounted signs shall be flush mounted. There shall be no
projection of any sign above the ridge line of the principal roof.
      (3)   All signs shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from any street
right-of-way.
      (4)   Permitted signs shall not be placed on utility easements or
drainage easements as defined on recorded plats or site plans.
      (5)   Signs shall not be placed as to interfere with the sight path of
vehicular traffic.
      (6)   The height of any ground sign shall be such that no part of the
sign face shall exceed a maximum height of four feet above grade level.
      (7)   The height of any pole sign shall be such that no part of the sign
face shall be less than nine feet above grade level. Such pole sign shall not
exceed a maximum height of 20 feet.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.52 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Scope. This section of the code shall apply to the zone designated by
the Town Zoning Ordinance as CBD - GB - LB.
   (B)   Permitted signs.
      (1)   Ground signs.
         (a)   Limit of one. One ground sign indicating the name and nature of
the business shall be permitted for each business parcel. Such ground sign
shall not be illuminated if adjacent to a residential use.
         (b)   Height. The height of any ground sign shall be such that no part
of the sign face shall exceed a maximum height of four feet.
         (c)   Size and location. A ground sign shall be placed a minimum
distance of ten feet from any street right-of-way. The face of any such sign
shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (2)   Wall signs. One wall sign shall be permitted on each building. The
maximum sign area shall be one- and one-half square feet for each lineal foot
of building frontage; however, in no instance shall such signage exceed 50
square feet for a single business. Location shall be as explained in §
110.53(D). Such wall sign shall not be illuminated. The face area may be
increased by 75% if the sign is for two or three businesses, and may be
increased by 100% if the sign is for more than three businesses.
(Ord. 1988-10, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.53 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Scope. This section of the Outdoor Advertising Sign Code shall apply
to all zones designated by the Town Zoning Ordinance as Industrial Business -
OI - EI - RB.
   (B)   Permitted signs.
      (1)   Permitted signs for freestanding buildings including freestanding
buildings located at strip and enclosed mall shopping centers.
         (a)   Ground signs. Either one ground sign or one pole sign (but not
both) indicating only the name and nature of the occupancy shall be permitted
for each business place. Such sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in area
(except as permitted in division (C) below and the definition of multi-faced
signs in §
110.03) and a pole sign shall not exceed 35 feet in height. Such sign shall be
installed in accordance with location criteria as explained in division (D)
below. Such ground sign may be illuminated as provided in §
110.43.
         (b)   Wall signs. One wall sign on a building shall be permitted per
each business therein. Maximum sign area shall be four square feet for each
linear foot of building frontage; however, in no instance shall such signage
area exceed 200 square feet. Location shall be as explained in division (D)
below. Such wall sign may be illuminated as provided in §
110.43. A freestanding building which is situated on a corner lot or which has
exposure to two streets may have wall signs on both exposed walls (i.e. limit
of two wall signs per building). The face area may be increased by 75% if the
sign is for two or three businesses, and may be increased by 100% if the sign
is for more than three businesses.
      (2)   Permitted signs for strip shopping centers and industrial zones.
         (a)   Pole signs. Pole signs at strip shopping centers and in
industrial zones may be made a part of the site development plan or, if erected
at a later date, shall be subject to the approval of the Town Planning
Commission and shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   One pole sign shall be permitted;
            2.   Such sign shall indicate only the name and location of such
business or businesses;
            3.   Such sign shall have a maximum surface area not exceeding 200
square feet, except as otherwise permitted in division (C) below and the
definition of multi-faced signs in §
110.03
            4.   Where a strip shopping center or developed parcel in an
industrial zone has in excess of 100 feet of street frontage, one additional
pole (freestanding) sign may be approved by the Plan Commission.
            5.   Where a strip shopping center or developed parcel in an
industrial zone is authorized by the Town Plan Commission to have more than one
pole (freestanding) sign, the distance between each sign shall not be less than
100 feet;
            6.   Such signs may be illuminated as provided in §
110.43 or as approved by the Town Plan Commission.
         (b)   Wall signs. One wall sign shall be permitted per business.
Maximum sign area shall be four square feet for each linear foot of building
frontage; however, in no instance shall any individual signage area exceed 200
square feet. Location shall be as explained in division (D) below. Such wall
sign may be illuminated as provided in §
110.43 or as approved by the Town Plan Commission.
      (3)   Permitted signs for enclosed mall shopping centers.
         (a)   Pole signs. All pole signs at enclosed mall shopping centers are
to be made a part of the site development plan, shall be subject to the
approval of the Town Plan Commission, and shall meet the following
requirements:
            1.   One pole sign shall be permitted along each street or highway
right-of-way abutting such an enclosed mall shopping center;
            2.   Such sign shall indicate only the name and location of such
enclosed mall shopping center or the business comprising the same;
            3.   Such sign shall have a maximum surface area not exceeding 300
square feet, except as otherwise permitted in division (C) below and §§
110.20 -
110.24.
            4.   Where an enclosed mall shopping center has in excess of 600
feet of street frontage along any given street or highway right-of-way, one
additional pole (freestanding pole) sign may be approved by the Town Plan
Commission for placement along such public street, highway, or road right-of-
way provided that the distance between such signs along such street or highway
right-of-way shall be not less than 500 feet;
            5.   Such sign shall not exceed 35 feet in height;
            6.   Such signs may be illuminated as provided in §
110.43 or as provided by the Town Plan Commission.
         (b)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted on each wall facing
the enclosed mall shopping center's parking lot. Maximum sign area on each of
such walls shall be two square feet for each linear foot of building frontage
on such parking lot; however, in no instance shall any individual sign exceed
400 square feet. Such sign shall indicate only the name and location of that
business. Location shall be as explained in division (D) below. Such wall sign
may be illuminated as provided in §
110.43 or as approved by the Town Plan Commission.
      (4)   Signs for commercial and industrial parks. Off-premises signs shall
be permitted for directing the traveling public to commercial or industrial
parks providing the following requirements are met:
         (a)   A permit shall be obtained prior to the erection of the sign;
         (b)   Such sign shall indicate only the name, location, and
information about the park itself; products or services shall not be
advertised;
         (c)   Such sign shall have a maximum sign face area of 100 square
feet, a minimum height of nine feet above grade level, and a maximum setback of
ten feet from the street right-of-way;
         (d)   Such sign shall be a minimum distance of 500 feet from any
residential zoning district;
         (e)   Such sign shall be a minimum distance of 500 feet from any other
off-premises sign.
   (C)   Signs advertising more than one business. Signs advertising more than
one business shall be permitted subject to the following:
      (1)   If two or three businesses are served, the maximum permitted sign
area shall be increased to an area no greater than 75% larger than the total
area permitted for a single business.
      (2)   If more than three businesses are served by such advertising, the
total area shall be increased no more than double the area permitted for a
single business.
      (3)   In no instance shall a sign exceed 400 square feet on any face.
   (D)   Locational standards.
      (1)   (a)   Ground or pole signs. The bottom of the signage area for all
pole signs shall be no lower than nine feet from the existing lot grade; the
top of the signage area for all ground signs shall be no higher than four feet
from the existing lot grade.
         (b)   All signs shall be subject to a minimum setback from any street
right-of-way of not less than ten feet, and in no way shall be installed so as
to obstruct vision of or otherwise create a hazard to traffic entering or
leaving the premises.
         (c)   Ground or pole signs shall be no closer to the side property
line than a distance equal to 35% of the frontage of the property upon which
that sign is to be located, but in no event shall such sign be closer than 15
feet.
      (2)   Wall signs. All wall signs shall be flush-mounted on the building
surface and shall not project above the roof line.
Penalty, see §
110.99
MAJOR HIGHWAY SIGNAGE
§ 110.60 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to control and regulate off-premises
and on-premises advertising signage along interstate highways and located
within the jurisdiction of the Town Plan Commission in the manner that is fair
and equitable.
   (B)   With this intent in mind, the scope includes, but is not necessarily
limited to, regulations that cover location, size, site and construction
specifications, illumination, maintenance, and administrative procedures
necessary to carry out effective control. Regulations within §§
110.60 -
110.65 apply to signs located within 660 feet of the nearest edge of interstate
highway right-of-way. Signs located more than 660 feet from an interstate
right-of-way shall be governed by the other appropriate sections of this
Outdoor Advertising Sign Code.
§ 110.61 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   Outdoor advertising structures and signs are permitted along an interstate
highway where the site is zoned commercially or industrially according to the
zoning ordinance, subject to the specifications and requirements of §§
110.60 -
110.65.
§ 110.62 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of outdoor advertising signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Signs which are illuminated or animated by means of flashing,
fluctuating, scintillating, blinking, or traveling lights or any other means
not providing constant illumination as provided herein.
   (B)   Signs which advertise illegal activities, or are obscene, or which
contain untruthful copy, or which are improperly mounted or erected, or which
represent a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.63 SIZE AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Minimum and maximum face areas, heights and setbacks shall be
established.
   (B)   On back-to-back or V'ed double-faced sign structures, the maximum face
area shall be permitted for each face.
   (C)   Extensions to the basic rectangular billboard type sign face shall not
exceed a maximum of four feet along the top and one foot on the sides and
bottom; providing, however, no extensions along the bottom shall encroach upon
the 12-foot minimum height requirement.
   (D)   Minimum and maximum heights shall be measured from the grade level at
the base of the sign.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.64 MINIMUM PROXIMITY.
   (A)   There shall be a minimum spacing of 1,000 feet between any type of
off-premises outdoor highway advertising structures and signs on each side of
the interstate highway.
   (B)   No off-premises billboard shall be allowed within 500 feet of an
interchange or intersection, that 500 feet to be measured along the interstate
from the beginning or ending of pavement widening at the exit from or entrance
to the main traveled way. This 500-foot prohibition does not apply to on-
premise signs which otherwise meet the requirements of this Outdoor Advertising
Sign Code.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.65 STRUCTURE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All pole and structural members shall be of steel. All billboard type
signs shall be mounted on single-pole or I-Beam structures. High-rise type
signs may be erected on one or more steel support structures. All members shall
be painted.
   (B)   All frames surrounding poster or bulletin signs shall be of painted
metal, rough sawn cedar, or of a framing material of equivalent quality.
   (C)   Each sign structure shall have the name, address, and telephone number
of the owner posted thereon. On sign structures utilizing electricity for
illumination and so forth, the sign structure shall feature Underwriter's
Laboratory approval of that installation.
   (D)   A sign may be mounted with two faces back-to-back (or V'ed) at an
angle not to exceed 60 degrees.
   (E)   When a structure is constructed in such a manner as to have a copy
material facing in a single direction, the exposed rear of the sign and the
structural members shall be finished and maintained to a degree equal to that
of the copy side of the sign.
   (F)   All lighting intended to illuminate copy on an outdoor interstate
highway sign shall be mounted below the sign and directed upward towards the
copy in order to prevent spillover onto the surrounding uses.
   (G)   All signs and structures shall be kept in good repair and in a safe,
neat, clean, and attractive condition. Failure to comply with the maintenance
requirements as determined by the Town Building Commissioner following an
inspection of the sign may result in revocation of the sign permit. Should the
lack of maintenance of the sign provide an immediate threat to public health,
safety, or welfare, as determined by the Town Building Commissioner, he shall
order, in writing, the immediate removal of the sign by the sign owner on
record.
   (H)   The Building Commissioner shall, following his inspection of the sign
and notification of the sign owner of record, order the removal of any obsolete
or abandoned sign by the sign owner of record.
Penalty, see §
110.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.70 AUTHORIZATION TO ENFORCE AND INSPECT.
   The Town Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to enforce
all the provisions of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code. Upon presentation of
proper credentials, the Building Commissioner and his duly authorized
representatives may enter at reasonable times any building, structure, or
premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon him by this Outdoor
Advertising Sign Code.
§ 110.71 INTERPRETATION.
   Where there is any ambiguity or disputes concerning the interpretation of
this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code, the decision of the Building Commissioner
shall prevail, subject to appeal as provided herein.
§ 110.72 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Building Commissioner
may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Building Commissioner shall take
no further action on the matter pending the Zoning Board of Appeals' decision,
except for unsafe signs which present an immediate and serious danger to the
public, as provided elsewhere in this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code.
§ 110.73 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   In addition to or instead of proceeding under the Town Zoning Board of
Appeals, or any designated enforcement official of this Outdoor Advertising
Sign Code, may institute a suit for an injunction in the County Circuit Court
to restrain an individual or a government unit from violating this Outdoor
Advertising Sign Code. The Board of Zoning Appeals or any designated
enforcement official may also institute a suit for mandatory injunction
directing an individual or governmental unit to remove a structure erected in
violation of this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code. A suit for mandatory
injunction relief is an additional remedy which does not preclude any
designated enforcement official from utilizing any and all other statutory
remedies available to the town for the enforcement of ordinances.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this Outdoor Advertising Sign Code shall be guilty
of an ordinance violation, and upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $2,500, and each day in which any such violation shall occur
will be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 111: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
111.01   Application
   
111.02   Limitations
   
111.03   Exceptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall not be deemed to apply to sale of items of tangible
personal property, goods or merchandise by a merchant in the ordinary course of
his or her business while duly licensed and operating under proper zoning
permit of the town and in compliance with requirements of other governmental
authorities. This chapter shall apply however to any and all other sales of
tangible personal property in the town on or within a tract of real estate used
by any person for residential purposes; and such sales shill be referred to as
"garage sale" or "garage sales" herein.
(Ord. 1987-01, passed 3-23-87)
§ 111.02 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Not more than two garage sales in any 365-day period of time shall be
held on any tract of real estate upon which a person or persons shall reside or
live.
   (B)   No such garage sale shall be more than three days in duration,
commencing with the first date that any sale or offer for sale of items is made
and ending with the date that the last sale or offer for sale is made. No sign
advertising a garage sale shall be placed or displayed more than three days
before the commencement of the garage sale, and the same shall be removed
within one day after the completion of the garage sale.
(Ord. 1987-01, passed 3-23-87)
§ 111.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the event that there shall be more than one such garage sale on any
residential tract of real estate within a 365-day period of time, then the
person or persons living or residing on such tract shall notify the Clerk-
Treasurer by written notice delivered either in person to the Clerk-Treasurer
or by first class mail, addressed to the address of the Clerk-Treasurer,
advising of the time and place of such second or other garage sale and the
persons holding such sale, at least five days prior to the commencement of such
second or other garage sale.
(Ord. 1987-01, passed 3-23-87)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person conducting a garage sale in violation of this chapter or who
controls the use of the residential tract of real estate used in violation of
this ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1987-01, passed 3-23-87)
CHAPTER 112: ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application for license; fees
   
112.04   Bond
   
112.05   Medical certificate required for vendors selling foodstuffs
   
112.06   Orders taken by solicitors
   
112.07   Exempted persons and types of sales
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any transient person who shall engage temporarily in the
making or selling of any kind of goods, wares, or merchandise, including the
making and selling of photographs, within the town, regardless of whether such
goods, wares, or merchandise are peddled from house to house, or sold from any
room, building, structure, or lot rented or leased for the purpose of carrying
on such business.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house or from place to place in
the town, selling or taking orders for, or offering to sell or take orders for
goods, wares, merchandise, service, or any article for future delivery.
However, this term shall apply only to solicitors who demand, accept, or
receive payment or a deposit of money in advance of final delivery.
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of itinerant
merchant or in the business of solicitor within the town without a license
therefor.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business of itinerant merchant or
solicitor shall make an application in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer for a
license so to do, which application shall be filed at least seven days before
the applicant shall be authorized to begin business. The application shall
state the name and residence of the applicant, the place where such business is
to be conducted, the kind of goods to be sold, and the length of time for which
a license is desired.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the application and the bond required in §
112.04, and the approval of the bond, a license shall be issued by the Clerk-
Treasurer to the applicant to begin business not less than seven days after the
date of filing the application and bond, upon the payment of the following
fees: for one day, $10; for one week, $25; for one month, $50; for one year,
$150. All license fees must be paid in advance. If any licensee desires to
continue in business after the expiration of the license, a new license must be
secured in the same manner and upon the same terms as the original license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 BOND.
   (A)   The application shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of
$500, executed by a surety company or two responsible freeholders residing
within the town (or in lieu therefor a cash bond of equal amount) conditioned
that all goods, wares, merchandise, or articles sold by the applicant will be
as represented by him and that he will refund the purchase price of any goods,
wares, merchandise, or articles sold by him which are not as represented.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the action of any solicitor or itinerant
merchant shall have a right of action on the bond for the recovery of money,
damages, or both. In the event a cash bond is deposited, it shall be retained
by the town for 90 days after the expiration of the license.
§ 112.05 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR VENDORS SELLING FOODSTUFFS.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of solicitor or itinerant
merchant who sells fruit, vegetables, bread, pastries, or other foodstuffs
which have not been canned, shall, before receiving his license or certificate,
present to the Clerk-Treasurer the certificate of a doctor of medicine,
certifying that the persons handling the same are free from all venereal and
transmittable diseases, and show that such an examination has been made within
30 days from the date of receiving the license. A new certificate shall be
placed on file with the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days from the date of the
first certificate, so long as that person continues to do business under that
license. No person shall transact any business of selling foodstuffs in the
town under an itinerant merchant's license unless he has a physical examination
certificate which is dated not more than 30 days before.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 ORDERS TAKEN BY SOLICITORS.
   All orders taken by solicitors within the town shall be in writing in
duplicate, stating the terms thereof and the amount paid in advance. One copy
of the order shall be given to the purchaser.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 EXEMPTED PERSONS AND TYPES OF SALES.
   (A)   Any person exempted by the laws of this state from the payment of such
license fees shall, before beginning business, present to the Clerk-Treasurer
his credentials, showing that he is entitled to an exemption and shall execute
and file a bond as above provided. Upon the approval of the bond, he shall then
receive a certificate from the Clerk-Treasurer authorizing him to engage in the
business of itinerant merchant or solicitor within the town for any period not
longer than one month. If at the end of a month the person desires to continue
in business, another certificate must be procured from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales to dealers by
commercial travelers; sales by producers of farm or dairy products; or to bona-
fide auction sales.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person guilty of violating §
112.02 shall receive a citation penalty of $250. If the citation is paid within
72 hours the cost is reduced to $200.
   (B)   Any person violating any other provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 13-2010, passed 10-27-10)
CHAPTER 113: TAXICABS
Section
Taxicab Regulations
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Compliance with regulations required
   
113.03   License required; application
   
113.04   License fee
   
113.05   Issuance of license
   
113.06   Insurance required
   
113.07   Office required
   
113.08   Taxicabs to have identifying signs
   
113.09   Taxicab drivers
   
113.10   Taxicab stands; fees
   
113.11   Revocation of license; hearing
Taxicab Drivers
   
113.25   License required
   
113.26   License application
   
113.27   Refusal to issue; revocation
   
113.28   Conditional license
   
113.29   Employment of unlicensed drivers prohibited
TAXICAB REGULATIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Every motor vehicle used within the limits of the town for public
hire, carrying passengers for hire, or furnishing for use passenger
transportation for hire along or over the public streets or other highways
within the town, the destination or route of which is under the direction of a
passenger being transported therein. However, this term shall not be taken to
mean any ambulance, city passenger bus, or school bus.
§ 113.02 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   No person or persons, firm, or corporation shall drive, run, or operate any
taxicab upon or along any street or other highway in the town, except in
accordance with regulations, terms, and conditions established by this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation desiring to operate a taxicab or
taxicab service upon or along the streets or other highways within the town,
shall, before undertaking so to do, file a signed application form in writing
for a license, duly sworn to be the applicant or applicants with the Town
Council of the town, which application shall show the following:
   (A)   The name and address of the person, persons, partnership, firm, or
corporation desiring the license; if a partnership or firm, the full name and
address of each of the members thereof; if a corporation, the name and address
of each of the officers thereof.
   (B)   That the applicant is financially able to render taxicab services as
applied for and has the financial backing, including liabilities, as required
by the town.
   (C)   That the applicant owns and is the sole owner of the taxicabs
described in division (D) below, in his service.
   (D)   The make, model, factory number, and state license number of each
motor vehicle to be driven and operated as a taxicab.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application, the Town Council shall then pass
upon the application, taking into consideration the applicant, his financial
standing, and his equipment for rendering taxicab service in the town. If the
Town Council finds that it is for the best interests of the town and the
citizens thereof that the applicant be issued a license to operate a taxicab
service, then the Town Council shall instruct the Clerk-Treasurer to issue a
license upon the compliance of the applicant with all other provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the applicant, upon the approval of
the Town Council as above, a license upon the payment of a fee of $10 for each
taxicab to be operated, for any calendar year or fraction thereof the cabs are
operated. The license shall continue in effect from year to year until revoked
by the Town Council so long as the applicant or licensee shall pay into the
hands of the Clerk-Treasurer the license fee herein prescribed on or before
January 10 of each year.
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing the application, approval thereof by the Town Council, and
payment of the required fees as fixed in §
113.04, and provided the other stipulations and conditions hereof have been
met, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the applicant a license permitting the
operation of the motor vehicle or motor vehicles described in the application
for one year, commencing January 1 and ending December 31 of each year, subject
to revocation as hereinafter provided.
§ 113.06 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license shall be issued and no taxicab shall be operated on any
street or highway within the town until there is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town a policy of insurance executed by a company authorized to execute
such instruments under the laws of the state, running for the year of the
license to be issued to the applicant as by this chapter provided.
   (B)   The insurance policy shall provide for the payment of any final
judgment that may be rendered against the insured for damages to property,
bodily injuries, or death of any passenger or passengers or any other person or
persons resulting from collision or other accident for which the person,
persons, firm, or corporation may be found liable while operating the taxicab
described in the application, in a sum not less than the state statutory
minimums for property damage and for injury or death of any person or persons.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 OFFICE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be granted or issued to any person or persons, firm, or
corporation, to operate any taxicab unless that person, persons, firm, or
corporation, has a fixed and permanent office, residence, or place of business
from which to operate, control, and regulate the operation of such taxicabs.
§ 113.08 TAXICABS TO HAVE IDENTIFYING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any motor
vehicle for taxicab services unless that vehicle is designated as a taxicab by
two or more colored signs, which signs must be permanently painted of a fast
color on the body of the vehicle. The signs must designate the person, persons,
firm, or corporation to which the vehicle belongs, and must be readable at 150
feet or more with the naked eye of a person of normal vision.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 TAXICAB DRIVERS.
   It shall be the obligation of the owner or operator of any taxicab company
which has secured a license to operate in the town to ascertain that each
driver employed by that operator has obtained a public passenger chauffeur
license to operate for hire passenger-transporting conveyances. Each driver
shall present his license to the Town Marshal prior to entering into any
employment as a driver for the inspection of the Town Marshal and the driver
shall be instructed by the Town Marshal with respect to traffic ordinances of
the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 TAXICAB STANDS; FEES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall set aside, near the place of business of the
taxicab operator, not to exceed one parking space for each taxicab upon which a
license fee of $10 has been paid, and hold such spaces open as a cab stand.
Such cab stands shall not be subject to parking meter charges but the operator
shall pay the sum of $25 per year for each cab stand.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation desiring to operate a
taxicab service without the reservation of parking spaces and not subject to
freedom from the conditions of the town parking meter regulations shall pay a
license fee of $35 for each and every taxicab. Each cab shall in all respects
be subject to the conditions of any parking meter regulations of the town.
§ 113.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   (A)   The Town Council of the town may suspend or revoke the license issued
to and for any taxicab or taxicabs for the violation of this chapter, whether
or not any criminal prosecution of the licensee is pending, upon proof and
hearing thereof.
   (B)   Any license issued to any owner or owners, operator or operators under
the terms and conditions of this chapter may be revoked or indefinitely
suspended by the Town Council, upon failure of the owner, owners, operator, or
operators to operate a taxicab or taxicabs in compliance with the terms of this
chapter and the laws of the state. However, the owner or owners, operator or
operators of each taxicab shall be given five day's written notice of the
violation, and upon hearing and proof thereof the license for the taxicab or
taxicabs may be suspended for a definite period or revoked.
TAXICAB DRIVERS
§ 113.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab as a driver hereof
within the town, without first having secured a license so to do from the town.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab as a driver thereof
without having on his person a taxicab driver's license issued by the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.26 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to drive a taxicab in the town shall before
undertaking so to do, file an application in writing for a taxicab driver's
license, duly sworn by the applicant, with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, which
application shall show the following:
   (A)   The name and present address of the applicant.
   (B)   The address of each place of residence of the applicant during the
last two years prior to the date of the application.
   (C)   The place of employment, the kind of employment, and the name of each
of the employers of the applicant for the last two years immediately preceding
the date of the application.
   (D)   The applicant's experience in automobile operation.
   (E)   Whether or not the applicant uses intoxicating liquors.
   (F)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted in any court for
any crime or misdemeanor, and if so, the facts concerning each conviction.
   (G)   The applicant's state passenger chauffeur's license number.
   (H)   The applicant shall also at the time of filing an application for a
taxicab driver's license, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $1.50 as an
annual taxicab driver's license. The license shall expire for one year after
issuance unless it is revoked pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.27 REFUSAL TO ISSUE; REVOCATION.
   No taxicab driver's license shall be issued to any applicant whose
application shows that he has been convicted three times for the violation of
any traffic law of the town or the state within the two years prior to the date
of the application. Any taxicab driver's license shall be revoked upon a
showing that the license was obtained by a false statement contained in the
application for the license.
§ 113.28 CONDITIONAL LICENSE.
   Notwithstanding any of the express provisions of this chapter, the Town
Council may in their discretion issue a conditional license which shall, along
with the regular license, be subject to immediate revocation for any period the
Council may determine, upon the licensee being convicted of driving while under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or any charge involving moral turpitude.
§ 113.29 EMPLOYMENT OF UNLICENSED DRIVERS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation licensed to operate taxicabs under this
chapter shall employ any person as a taxicab driver in the town unless that
taxicab driver has been duly licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Issuance of liquor retailer's permits authorized
   
114.02   Fee required
   
114.03   Certification to State Alcoholic Beverage Commission
§ 114.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILER'S PERMITS AUTHORIZED.
   The issuance of liquor retailer's permits by the proper commission, officers
or other instrumentality of the state, for the sale of alcoholic spirituous
beverages by any such permit holder on premises and property located within the
corporate limits of the town, is hereby authorized and the consent of the Town
Council is hereby given to the issuance of any such liquor retailer's permit
which is granted by the proper commission, officers or instrumentality of the
state.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-8-72)
§ 114.02 FEE REQUIRED.
   The Town Council shall require and does hereby require the sum of $450 be
given to the Clerk-Treasurer to be paid into the treasury of the town, by any
person so applying for a liquor retailer's permit before receiving the state
permit herein authorized and consented to in §
114.01.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-8-72)
Statutory reference:
   Power of local authorities to consent to liquor retailer's permits, see IC
7.1-3-9-3
§ 114.03 CERTIFICATION TO STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE COMMISSION.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and enactment according to law and its written approval by the President of the
Town Council and attestation by the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall issue and
transmit a certified copy of the ordinance by registered mail to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Commission at Indianapolis, after collecting the sum due
from such applicant to the town, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall also certify to
the Commission that the town fee has been received from the applicant.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-8-72)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Sale and possession of synthetic drugs
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
(IC 31-37-3-2)
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(IC 31-37-3-3)
   (C)   Whenever the town determines that the curfew time established by
divisions (A) or (B) is later than is reasonable for public safety under the
conditions found to exist in the town, the town may, by ordinance, advance the
curfew time within its jurisdiction by not more than two hours.
(IC 31-37-3-4)
§ 130.02 SALE AND POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC DRUGS.
   (A)   Substances containing chemicals perceived as mimics of marijuana,
cocaine, LSD, MDMA, methamphetamine, and/or other controlled substances
(“Synthetic Drugs”), shall not be possessed, sold, marketed, or offered for
sale within the town.
   (B)   Synthetic drugs include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   A substance containing one or more of the following chemical
compounds, including an analogue, congener, derivative, isomer, homologue,
salt, salt of analogue, salt of congener, salt of derivative, salt of isomer,
and salt of the compound:
         (a)   JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-l-propyl-1H- indol-3-yl)-l-
naphthalenylmethanone).
         (b)   JWH-018(l-pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole).
         (c)   JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalen-1-oyl)indole).
         (d)   JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(l-butylindol-3-yl)methanone).
         (e)   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl- (1-pentylindol- 3-
yl)methanone).
         (f)   JWH-122(l-Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-l-naphthoyl)indole).
         (g)   JWH-200((l-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-l-ylm
ethanone).
         (h)   JWH-250(l-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole).
         (i)   JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole).
         (j)   JWH-398 (l-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-l-naphthoyl)indole).
         (k)   HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)- 9-(Hydroxymethyl)- 6,6-dimethyl- 3-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)- 6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen- l-ol).
         (1)   HU-211 ((6aS, 10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)- 6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-l-ol).
         (m)   HU-308 ([(lR,2R,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenyl]- 7,7-dimethyl-4-bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol).
         (n)   HU-331 (3-hydroxy-2- [(lR,6R)-3-methyl-6- (l-methylethenyl)-2 -
cyclohexen-l-yl]-5 -pentyl-2,5-cyclohexadiene-l,4-dione).
         (o)   CP 55,940 (2-[(lR,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl)
cyclohexyl]- 5- (2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol).
         (p)   CP 47,497 (2-[(lR,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5- (2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenol) and its homologues, or 2-[(lR,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl) phenol), where side chain n=5, and homologues where side
chain n-4,6, or 7.
         (q)   WIN 55212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-
morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo [1,2,3-de)- 1,4- benzoxazin- 6-yl]-l-
napthalenylmethanone).
         (r)   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl) (l-pentyl-lH-indol-3-yl)methanone).
         (s)   RCS-8 (l-(l-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-lH- indoI-3-yl)-2-(2-
methoxyphenyl)ethanone).
         (t)   4-Methylmethcathinone. Other name: mephedrone.
         (u)   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone. Other name: methylone.
         (v)   Fluoromethcathinone.
         (w)   4-Methoxymethcathinone. Other name: methedrone.
         (x)   4-Ethylmethcathinone (4-EMC).
         (y)   Methylenedioxypyrovalerone. Other name: MDPV.
         (z)   JWH-007, or l-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole.
         (aa)   JWH-098, or 1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(4-methoxy-1-naphthoyl)indole.
         (bb)   JWH-164, or l-pentyl-3-(7-methoxy-l-naphthoyl)indole.
         (cc)   JWH-210, or l-pentyl-3-(4-ethyl-l-naphthoyl)indole.
         (dd)   JWH-201, or 1-pentyl-3-(4-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole.
         (ee)   JWH-203, or l-pentyl-3-(2-chlorophenylacetyl)indole.
         (ff)   AM-694, or l-(5-fluoropentyl)-3-(2-iodobenzoyl)indole.
         (gg)   CP 50,556-1, or [(6S,6aR,9R,10aR)-9-hydroxy-6-methyl-3-[(2R)-
5-phenyl pentan-2-yl]oxy-5,6,6a,7,8,9,10,10a-octahydrophenanthri din-l-yl]
acetate.
         (hh)   Dimethylheptylpyran, or DMHP.
         (ii)   4-Methyl-alpha-pyrrolidinobutiophenone, or MPBP.
         (jj)   6-APB.
         (kk) 7-hydroxymitragynine.
         (ll)   .-PPP.
         (mm)   .-PVP (desmethylpyrovalerone).
         (nn)   AM-251.
         (oo)   AM-1241.
         (pp)   AM-2201.
         (qq)   AM-2233.
         (rr)   Buphedrone.
         (ss)   Butylone.
         (tt)   CP-47,497-C7.
         (uu)   CP-47,497-C8.
         (vv)   Desoxypipradol.
         (ww)   Ethylone.
         (xx)   Eutylone.
         (yy)   Flephedrone.
         (zz)   JWH-011.
         (aaa)   JWH-020.
         (bbb)   JWH-022.
         (ccc)   JWH-030.
         (ddd)   JWH-182.
         (eee)   JWH-302.
         (fff)   MDAI.
         (ggg)   Mitragynine.
         (hhh)   Naphyrone.
         (iii)   Pentedrone.
         (jjj)   Pentylone.
         (kkk)   Pyrovalerone.
         (lll)   Methoxetamine (MXE), or 3-MeO-2-Oxo-PCE.
         (mmm)   5-MeO-DALT, or N,N-diallyl-5-methoxytryptamine.
         (nnn)   Fluoroamphetamine.
         (ooo)    3-(4-Hydroxymethylbenzoyl)-1-pentylindol
         (ppp)   l-Methyl-4-phenyl-4-propionoxypiperidine (MPPP) or
Desmethylprodine.
         (qqq)   4-Methylethcathinone, or 4-MEC.
      (2)   Any compound structurally derived from 3-(l-naphthoyI)indole or lH-
indol-3-yl-(l-naphthyl)methane by substitution at the nitrogen atom of the
indole ring by alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, l-
(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or not
further substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not
substituted in the naphthyl ring to any extent.
      (3)   Any compound structurally derived from 3-(l-naphthoyl)173 pyrrole
by substitution at the nitrogen atom of the pyrrole ring by alkyl, haloalkyl,
alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, l-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or
2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or not further substituted in the pyrrole
ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in the naphthyl ring to any
extent.
      (4)   Any compound structurally derived from l-(l-naphthylmethyl)indene
by substitution at the 3-position of the indene ring by alkyl, haloalkyl,
alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, l-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or
2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or not further substituted in the indene
ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in the naphthyl ring to any
extent.
      (5)   Any compound structurally derived from 3-phenylacetylindole by
substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring with alkyl, haloalkyl,
alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, l-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or
2-(4-morpholinyI)ethyl group, whether or not further substituted in the indole
ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in the phenyl ring to any
extent.
      (6)   Any compound structurally derived from 2-(3-
hydroxycyclohexyl)phenol by substitution at the 5-position of the phenolic ring
by alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, l-(N-methyl-2-
piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or not substituted
in the cyclohexyl ring to any extent.
      (7)   Any compound containing a 3-(benzoyl)indole structure with
substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring by alkyl, haloalkyl,
alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, l-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or
2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or not further substituted in the indole
ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in the phenyl ring to any
extent.
      (8)   Any compound, except bupropion or a compound listed under a
different schedule, structurally derived from 2-aminopropan-l-one by
substitution at the 1-position with either phenyl, naphthyl, or thiophene ring
systems, whether or not the compound is further modified:
         (a)   By substitution in the ring system to any extent with alkyl,
alkylenedioxy, alkoxy, haloalkyl, hydroxyl, or halide substituents, whether or
not further substituted in the ring system by one or more other univalent
substituents;
         (b)   By substitution at the 3-position with an acyclic alkyl
substituent;
         (c)   By substitution at the 2-amino nitrogen atom with alkyl,
dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups; or
         (d)   By inclusion of the 2-amino nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
   (C)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this section involving
the sale, marketing, or offering for sale of synthetic drugs shall be subject
to a minimum fine of $1,000 for a first time offense and $2,500 for each
offense thereafter. Persons or entities violating the provisions of this
section involving the possession of synthetic drugs shall be subject to a
minimum fine of $500 for a first time offense and $1,000 for each offense
thereafter. Any synthetic drugs within the town may be seized by law
enforcement.
   (D)   If, after multiple violations by the same person or entity, the Town
Attorney and the Police Department have reason to believe that the imposition
of fines will not be effective in enforcing this section, the Town Attorney
shall be empowered to seek any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 2-8-12)
TITLE XV:
Updated through July 2015
Construction_Standards [pdf]
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
--       9-14-87     Authorizing the execution of a trash collection contract
                     between the town and Caldwell Gravel Sales, Inc.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Indiana Code Cite Code Section
Indiana Code Cite   Code Section
3-8-5-2             33.02
3-10-6-1 et seq.    33.01
4-22-2              102.06
5-3-1               90.04
5-10-2-1 et seq.    34.10
5-10.1              34.10
5-11-1-27           35.08
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.  30.16,
                    30.17
5-14-3 et seq.      104.03
7.1-3-9-3           114.02
8-1-2-101           104.02
8-1-2.6-13          104.02
8-1-32.3            104.01
8-1-32.3-15(b)(3)   104.07
8-1.5-3             30.03
8-1.5-3-3           30.03
8-1.5-3-4           30.03
8-1.5-3-11          35.04
9-13-1-1 et seq.    70.04
9-13-2-6            70.04
9-13-2-105          95.02
9-17-2-12           70.11
9-20-1-4            Ch. 74, Sch. II
                    71.30,
9-21-1-3            71.40,
                    Ch. 72
9-21-1-6            70.09
9-21-1-7            70.09
9-21-1-8            70.10
9-21-4-1            70.21
9-21-4-3            70.20
9-21-5-6            71.15
9-21-13-1 et seq.   71.50
9-21-13-5           71.52
9-21-16-3           72.30
9-21-20-1           70.04
9-21-20-2           70.04
9-21-20-3           70.04
9-22-1-3            90.04
9-22-1-30           90.01,
                    90.03
9-26-1-1            70.35
9-26-1-2            70.35
9-26-1-6            70.36
9-26-3              70.35
9-26-3-4            70.37
9-29-4-2            70.11
13-17-9             97.01
14-8-2-5.7          76.01
16-18-2-110         70.04
16-22-8             70.04
22-9-1-4 et seq.    101.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.    101.01
22-9.5-2-2          101.02
22-9.5-2-3          101.02
22-9.5-2-4          101.02
22-9.5-2-8          101.02
22-9.5-2-9          101.02
22-9.5-2-10         101.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)      101.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)      101.02
22-9.5-2-11         101.02
22-9.5-2-13         101.02
22-9.5-3            101.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.    101.10
22-9.5-4-8          101.11
22-9.5-5            101.02
22-9.5-5-1          101.03
22-9.5-6            101.02,
                    101.11
31-37-3-1           130.01
31-37-3-2           130.01
31-37-3-3           130.01
31-37-3-4           130.01
32-31-3-3           105.01
32-31-3-4           105.01
32-31-3-5           105.01
32-31-3-8           105.01
32-31-3-10          105.01
32-31-3-18          105.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)  50.999
36-1-5-4            34.02
36-1-6-2            96.99
36-1-8-11           35.09
36-1-8-11.5         35.09
36-1-11             90.04
36-1-20-1.5         105.01
36-1-20-4.1         105.03
36-1-20.2           34.02
36-1-21             34.02
36-4-6-11           34.02
36-5-2-1 et seq.    Ch. 30,
                    30.01
36-5-2-5            30.02
36-5-2-9.4          34.02
36-5-3-1 et seq.    35.01
36-5-4-1 et seq.    35.01
36-5-4-12           35.06
36-5-4-12(a)        35.06
36-5-6-1 et seq.    31.01
36-5-6-7            31.02
36-5-7-1 et seq.    31.04
36-5-7-6            31.04
36-7-4              104.04,
                    104.05
36-7-4-1600 et seq. 104.04,
                    104.05
36-7-9 et seq.      102.14
36-7-9-2            102.02
36-7-9-14           102.07
36-7-10.1-3         100.02
36-7-10.1-4         96.99,
                    100.03
36-7-10.1-5         96.99
36-8-3              32.05
36-10-5             98.01
36-10-52            98.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
132         5-8-72      Ch. 114
164-76      5-24-76     Ch. 74,
                        Ch. 75
1981-1      7-13-81     99.07
                        50.001-
1982-4      7-26-82     50.107,
                        50.999
                        51.01-
                        51.03,
1985-2      6-10-85     51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.09,
                        51.10
1986-11     12-15-86    30.03
                        111.01 -
1987-01     3-23-87     111.03,
                        111.99
                        94.01-
                        94.09,
                        94.20-
1987-04     7-27-87     94.22,
                        94.31,
                        94.32,
                        94.99
1987-05     7-27-87     97.01-97.06, 97.99
                        94.10,
1987-6      8-24-87     94.30,
                        94.31,
                        94.33
           9-14-87     T.S.O., Table I
1988-10     - -         110.52
1989-9      10-23-89    91.11
1988-04     12-21-88    90.01 -
                        90.04
1989-1      10-18-89    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1991-2      12-9-91     Ch. 75, Sch. II
1993-1      2-24-93     Adopting Ordinance
1993-2      3-10-93     99.21 - 99.29
1996-2      2-14-96     50.101,
                        50.102
                        51.01 -
                        51.03,
1996-6      12-23-96    51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.09,
                        51.10
1997-2      9-30-97     94.31
1998-1      1-31-98     Adopting Ordinance
                        98.01 -
1998-3      10-14-98    98.07,
                        98.99
1999-2      11-10-99    32.05
                        51.01 -
                        51.03,
2000-7      7-12-00     51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.10
2000-8      7-12-00     50.101,
                        50.102
2001-01     4-11-01     35.05
2001-08     12-12-01    33.02
2002-04     4-1-02      98.05
                        95.05,
2002-06     4-10-02     95.06,
                        95.99
2004-01     3-24-04     50.101,
                        50.102
                        51.01 -
                        51.03,
2004-02     3-24-04     51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.09,
                        51.10
2004-04     3-10-04     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-05     7-1-04      92.11
2004-06     10-13-04    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2004-07     12-29-04    50.105,
                        51.06
2005-01     1-26-05     34.03
Res. 2005-1 5-11-05     32.22
2005-02     2-9-05      Ch. 74, Sch. III
                        101.01 -
2005-05     5-11-05     101.08,
                        101.10 -
                        101.12
                        96.01 -
06-2007     5-9-07      96.11,
                        96.99
07-2007     8-22-07     32.06
06-2008     6-25-08     35.06
                        51.01 -
                        51.03,
7-2008      7-23-08     51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.09,
                        51.10
3-2009      3-11-09     50.102
4-2009      2-25-09     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2-2010      3-10-10     51.20 -
                        51.24
3-2010      5-26-10     Ch. 74, Sch. III
4-2010      6-9-10      100.01 -
                        100.04
                        95.01 -
                        95.03,
7-2010      7-28-10     95.07,
                        95.08,
                        95.99
                        50.001 -
                        50.015,
                        50.030 -
                        50.033,
                        50.040 -
                        50.043,
9-2010      7-28-10     50.050 -
                        50.053,
                        50.060 -
                        50.079,
                        50.090 -
                        50.108,
                        50.999
13-2010     10-27-10    112.99
3-2011      7-27-11     32.20
2-2012      2-8-12      130.02
04-2012     3-28-12     50.109
05-2012     7-11-12     34.02
06-2012     7-25-12     35.07
7-2012      7-11-12     51.20 -
                        51.24
                        94.30,
08-2012     7-11-12     94.31,
                        94.33
09-2012     9-12-12     32.21
12-2012     10-24-12    51.11
13-2012     10-24-12    51.05
14-2012     11-14-12    30.02
2-2014      4-23-14     97.01
3-2014      2-26-14     103.01
04-2014     2-26-14     50.073
09-2014     8-13-14     51.12
10-2014     8-13-14     50.016
17-2014     10-22-14    Ch. 74, Sch. III
                        50.073,
2016-2      2-10-16     50.100,
                        50.101
2016-3      7-13-16     35.08
2016-4      11-9-16     92.25
5-2017      7-12-17     92.25,
                        92.99
2018-1      3-14-18     94.31
06-2018     8-22-18     101.01 -
                        101.12
                        51.01 -
                        51.03,
09-2018     11-14-18    51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.09,
                        51.10
2019-01     7-10-19     Adopting Ordinance
                        51.01,
                        51.03,
03-2019     10-23-19    51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.09,
                        51.10
2019-7      12-4-19     31.02
01-2020     6-24-20     35.06
2021-1      2-10-21     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2021-2      3-24-21     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2022-03     4-27-22     102.01 -
                        102.10
2022-04     4-27-22     35.09
2022-05     4-27-22     104.01 -
                        104.08
                        105.01 -
2022-08     5-25-22     105.05,
                        105.99
2022-09     6-8-22      51.01
                        76.01 -
15-2022     11-9-22     76.09,
                        76.99
2022-18     12-28-22    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2023-01     1-11-23     94.31
2023-04     3-8-23      Ch. 75, Sch. I
2023-05     3-8-23      72.09,
                        72.99
2023-10     4-26-23     94.31
2023-16     8-9-23      110.24
2023-17     8-23-23     96.12
                       
 
 
 
