MULBERRY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-278, passed 9-12-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS of the
TOWN OF MULBERRY, INDIANA
 
Dave Jones        Council President
Rick Bennett      Council Vice President
Don DeVore        Council Member
Lois Rohdy        Council Member
Randy Ravenscraft Council Member
Paula Bennett     Clerk-Treasurer
Alicia Albertson  Town Attorney
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Mulberry Town
Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances,” or
“Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Clinton County, Nebraska.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The Town of Mulberry, Nebraska.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Includes printing, lithographing or other modes of representing
words and letters.
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in previous year and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code,
§      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
30.01   Police vehicle use
   
30.02   Credit card use by officers and employees
   
30.03   Certain political activity prohibited
   
30.04   Home Rule
   
30.05   Nepotism policy; town contracts
   
30.06   Nepotism
   
30.07   Drug-free workplace
   
30.08   Personnel policies adopted by reference
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 POLICE VEHICLE USE.
   (A)   All police vehicles of the town shall be marked.
   (B)   No passengers shall be permitted in police vehicles, except:
      (1)   Adults under arrest;
      (2)   Juveniles in custody for a violation;
      (3)   An officer or employee of the town authorized by the Town Council;
or
      (4)   In case of a bona fide emergency in which the passenger is under
threat of serious bodily injury.
   (C)   In addition to the authorized official and de minimis personal use of
his or her assigned police vehicle, as established under the town’s Personnel
Policy Handbook, the Town Marshal shall be permitted to use his or her assigned
vehicle not more than two days per week for travel to and from the County
Courthouse and for other personal use within a radius of 15 miles from the
corporation limits of the town.
   (D)   All police officers of the town shall promptly acknowledge receipt of
a copy of this section.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Res. passed 9-23-2009)
§ 30.02 CREDIT CARD USE BY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Credit card issuance.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to establish and maintain
a single credit card account with The Farmers Bank, Frankfort, Indiana, for the
issuance of credit cards for use by town officers and employees to whom the
Town Council has granted purchasing authority.
      (2)   The account shall have a limit of $1,000.
      (3)   Each officer or employee to whom a card is to be issued shall
acknowledge in writing receipt of a copy of this section prior to issuance of a
credit card in his or her name on the account.
      (4)   All credit card correspondence shall be directed to the town’s post
office box, which shall also be used as the billing address for all purchases
using the cards.
   (B)   Credit card use policies and procedures.
      (1)   Charges shall only be made on the credit card for purchases which
are authorized by appropriation in a budget of the town or its utilities.
      (2)   Within two business days of the use of a credit card or the credit
card account, the person using the credit card or its account shall provide to
the Clerk-Treasurer the customer copy of all credit card receipts, the
originals or duplicates of all paid bills or other receipts furnished by the
vendor and shall provide any other information requested by the Clerk-
Treasurer, including the following:
         (a)   The purpose of the purchase; and
         (b)   The budget line item or items from which the purchase is to be
paid.
      (3)   All credit card billing statements shall be sent by the issuing
bank to the Clerk-Treasurer, and the account shall be paid by the Clerk-
Treasurer from the appropriate budget line item or items pursuant to the claims
procedures of the town.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay the entire account balance before its
due date so that no interest charges, late fees or penalties will be incurred.
      (5)   Any officer or employee who causes interest charges, late fees or
penalties to be added to the credit card account shall be personally liable for
all interest charges, late fees and penalties.
      (6)   No credit card issued by the town to any elected officer,
supervisor or employee, nor the credit card account itself, shall be accessed
or used for personal purchases or for purchases made in violation of the
purchasing or travel policies of the town.
      (7)   The holder of a card which is lost or stolen shall report the same
directly to the issuer of the card within 24 hours and shall notify the Clerk-
Treasurer within two business days of having reported the loss or theft of the
card.
      (8)   Upon written demand of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Council or any
officer thereof, any person to whom a card is issued shall immediately return
possession of the card and shall thenceforth cease making charges to the
account, with or without the credit card.
      (9)   Employees in violation of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
      (10)   Officers or employees who use or retain possession or control over
a credit card or access the credit card account contrary to the provisions of
this section shall additionally be subject to prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 162-2008, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.03 CERTAIN POLITICAL ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted under the Home Rule power of the
town pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3.
   (B)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   The town, its officers and employees, in any official capacity, or
during the usual hours of their employment or service for the town, shall not
participate in or intervene in (including publishing or distributing
statements) any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any
candidate for public office.
      (2)   The property of the town, of whatever kind and wherever located,
including, but not limited to, all real property, tangible and intangible
personal property, is dedicated to public purposes, and no part thereof shall
be used or applied, directly or indirectly, to any political campaign on behalf
of or in opposition to any candidate for public office.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 1997-121, passed 10-14-1997) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.04 HOME RULE.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
in I.C. 36-1-3-6.
   (B)   Manner for the exercise of the power of Home Rule by the Town Council.
The Town Council may exercise its power of Home Rule by the adoption of an
ordinance by the majority of its members present at any duly convened meeting
of the Council. Only ordinances which prescribe civil penalties for their
violation shall be required to be published pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 1997-118, passed 10-14-1997)
§ 30.05 NEPOTISM POLICY; TOWN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Key definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. Any member of the Town Council.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild, including adopted children;
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother or stepsister, including brothers
or sisters by the half-blood;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; and/or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Anti-nepotism policy regarding town contracts.
      (1)   In order to comply with state law and in order to avoid potential
conflicts of interests, misunderstandings and appearances of favoritism,
impropriety or bias, the legislative body has adopted the following policy to
establish certain minimum requirements regarding contracts between:
         (a)   Any department, office or elected official of the town; and
         (b)   Relatives (or businesses wholly or partially owned by relatives)
of elected officials of the town.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the town may enter into or
renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a contract for
public works with either an individual who is a relative of an elected official
or a business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an
elected official only if the requirements of this policy are satisfied and such
contract would not result in a violation of I.C. 35-44-1-3 by the elected
official.
   (C)   Procedure to comply. Notwithstanding any provisions of this policy and
I.C. 36-1-21, the town may enter into or renew a contract with an individual or
business entity described in division (B) above only if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The elected official shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer for
consideration of the Town Council at its next regular or special meeting a full
disclosure statement, which must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
         (c)   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity with whom the town seeks to contract or from whom
the town seeks to purchase;
         (d)   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
         (e)   Be submitted to the legislative body of the town and be accepted
by the legislative body of the town in a public meeting of the legislative body
prior to final action on the contract or purchase; and
         (f)   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with the State Board of Accounts and the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of the county.
      (2)   The appropriate agency of the town shall file a certified statement
with the Town Council:
         (a)   That the contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount
or price bid or offered; or
         (b)   Setting forth the reasons why the vendor or contractor was
selected.
      (3)   The town satisfies any other contracting requirements under I.C. 5-
22 (concerning the purchase of goods or services) or I.C. 36-1-12 (concerning
public works); and
      (4)   The elected official also complies with the disclosure provisions
required by I.C. 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
   (D)   Annual certification by elected officers. Each elected officer of the
town shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury,
that the officer has not violated this policy or I.C. 36-1-21. Each officer
shall submit the certification to the Clerk-Treasurer not later than December
31 of each year.
   (E)   Interpretation of policy. This policy is intended to implement the
minimum requirements necessary to comply with I.C. 36-1-21, as the same may be
amended from time to time. If and to the extent this policy is not in
compliance with I.C. 36-1-21, this policy shall be deemed to include such terms
not otherwise included herein, and to exclude such terms not otherwise excluded
as are necessary to cause this policy to implement the minimum requirements set
forth in I.C. 36-1-21. To the extent this policy is inconsistent with any
provision of state law, including, without limitation, I.C. 36-1-21, such other
provisions of state law shall control. If any portion of this policy is held or
deemed to be, or is, invalid, illegal, inoperable or unenforceable, the
validity, legality, operability and enforceability of the remaining portions of
this policy shall not be affected, and this policy shall be construed as if it
did not contain such invalid, illegal, inoperable or unenforceable portion.
   (F)   Right to review application of policy and make amendments. The town
reserves the right to review the specific facts of any case where this policy
is implicated and make exceptions on a case-by-case basis consistent with the
provisions of state law, including, without limitation, the provisions of I.C.
36-1-21. Furthermore, the town reserves the right to modify or amend the
provisions of this policy from time to time consistent with the provisions of
the provisions of state law, including, without limitation, the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-21.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Res. passed 6-12-2012)
§ 30.06 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT HEAD. The employed or appointed head of any department of the
town, including, without limitation, Street Superintendent, the Water
Superintendent and the Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An officer or department head who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibility of the executive, legislative body or fiscal body of the town,
as provided by statute, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets
or personnel policies of the town.
      EMPLOYEES. Full-time, part-time, temporary or intermittent employees of
the town.
      OFFICER. Any elected officer of the town.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   Spouse;
         (b)   Parent or stepparent;
         (c)   Child or stepchild;
         (d)   Brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, stepbrother or
stepsister;
         (e)   Niece or nephew;
         (f)   Aunt or uncle; and
         (g)   Daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Prohibited employments.
      (1)   Employees who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of that person’s relative.
      (2)   A reemployment after a break in employment is also prohibited.
However, if an employee is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave or worker’s
compensation, or if employment with the town is terminated followed by
immediate reemployment by the town (without loss of payroll time), then such
shall not be deemed a break in employment for purposes of this division (B).
   (C)   Contracting with a unit by a relative. The town hereby established a
“contracting with a unit policy” that complies with the minimum requirements of
I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter, “contracting with a unit by a relative policy”). The
town’s “contracting with a unit by a relative policy” shall be deemed to
include all future supplements and amendments of I.C. 36-1-21, which
requirements are incorporated herein by reference.
   (D)   Compliance and violations.
      (1)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section.
         (a)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the nepotism and contracting with
a unit by a relative policies is a violation of the policies of the town and
may result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a
transfer for the direct line of supervision or other curative action.
         (b)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide
by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance and mandated certifications
of the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
      (2)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a
relative policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including
termination, of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with the mandated certifications of the
contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed by
law.
   (E)   Distribution. The Clerk-Treasurer shall distribute copies of this
section to all employees elected and appointed officers and obtain written
acknowledgments of receipt.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 196-2013, passed 12-10-2013) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.07 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Purpose. The town has made a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards and to maintain public
confidence in the town and its employees. Since the town values each employee,
the town offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse
problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
812) and Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include, but are not limited to, marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and barbiturates.
Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over to the state
police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 81 et seq.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the town’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it
is the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town; or
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding re-application opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 199-2015, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 2022-068, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see
§
30.99
§ 30.08 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel policies are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 1997-119, passed 10-14-1997; Ord. 168-2008, passed
9-9-2008; Ord. passed 8-14-2010)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon adjudication of violation of §
30.03, the court having jurisdiction thereof may prescribe and impose a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 30.99) (Ord. 1997-121, passed 10-14-1997)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Council election districts abolished
Procedures
   
31.15   Docketing of documents
   
31.16   Voting procedures
   
31.17   Agenda
   
31.18   Roll call vote
   
31.19   Suspension of rules
   
31.20   Special meetings
   
31.21   Control of meetings
   
31.22   Organization
   
31.23   Lack of quorum
   
31.24   Commissioners
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COUNCIL ELECTION DISTRICTS ABOLISHED.
   (A)   Town Council election districts in the town are hereby abolished, and
all Town Council election districts in the town shall be at large.
   (B)   This section shall be effective for the municipal election next
conducted following the date of this section and for each municipal election
thereafter in the town, unless or until this section is replaced by an
ordinance adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-4.1, or any statute amending
or replacing the statute.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to file a certified copy of this
section with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county within 30 days after
its adoption, in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(j).
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 2002-138, passed 8-13-2002)
PROCEDURES
§ 31.15 DOCKETING OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   To be considered at any Town Council meeting, without the necessity of
suspending the rules, any complaint ordinance, resolution, contract or other
writing requesting action by the Town Council shall be submitted to the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer not later than 12:00 p.m. on the fifth day prior to the
Town Council meeting at which it is proposed to be considered.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall place on the agenda all timely submitted
items or requests for the Council’s consideration. Items and requests not
timely submitted shall be made available to the Council at its meeting but
shall not be considered without suspension of the rules, as hereinafter
provided.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may require the party submitting a document to
provide up to five additional copies of the document for distribution to
members of the Town Council. If an ordinance, resolution or contract prepared
by an attorney other than the Town Attorney is submitted, an additional copy
shall be made for the Town Attorney.
   (D)   The following form is approved for use by the Clerk-Treasurer.
 
   Date and time received:                                 
                                    
   Clerk-Treasurer
 
   ITEM FOR AGENDA
   MULBERRY TOWN COUNCIL
 
1.   Description of Agenda Item
 
                                                                                                                                      
 
                                                                                                                                      
      
 
2.   Council action requested
 
                                                                                                                                      
 
                                                                                                                                      
 
3.   If the requested action pertains to a complaint, describe what, if any, communication(s) you have previously initiated or received on this matter
 
                                                                                                                                      
 
                                                                                                                                      
      
      
 
 
   
   Signature:                                                                       
   Printed Name:                                                                 
   Address:                                                                         
                                                                           
                        
To be considered at any Town Council meeting, this request and any other material relating to, or in support of, this request must be submitted to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer not later than noon on the fifth day prior to the Town Council meeting at which it is
to be considered.
 
(Prior Code, § 31.15)
§ 31.16 VOTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Ordinances.
      (1)   A simple majority vote (50%, plus one) of the members of the Town
Council present at any meeting duly convened with a quorum present and voting
shall be sufficient to adopt an ordinance, unless a greater percentage is
specially required by statute.
      (2)   No ordinance may receive a second reading or be adopted at the same
meeting in which it is first introduced unless, by unanimous vote of the
Council members present, they first consent to consider the ordinance on the
same meeting as its introduction. With unanimous consent, an ordinance may then
be adopted at that meeting by a majority vote. In all other cases, second
reading shall occur at the next Town Council meeting.
   (B)   Resolutions. Resolutions may be adopted by a simple majority vote at a
meeting at which not less than three members of the Town Council are present
and voting.
   (C)   “Reading” defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRST READING. For all matters properly docketed pursuant to this
section, a reading is accomplished by reading aloud its assigned number, if
any, and the title of the document, unless verbatim reading is directed upon
separate motion carried by majority vote.
      SECOND READING. By reading aloud the assigned number, if any, and the
title of the document only.
(Prior Code, § 31.16) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.17 AGENDA.
   (A)   A copy of the agenda shall be provided to each Council member and
posted at the entrance to the meeting place prior to the commencement of the
meeting.
   (B)   The agenda shall prescribe the order of business which shall generally
be conducted in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order and pledge to the flag;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of previous minutes;
      (4)   Committee reports;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Departmental reports;
      (8)   Approval of claims; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (C)   The presiding officer of the Council meeting may alter the order of
the agenda for the convenience of the Council. Public hearings on matters
requiring hearings or public debate shall be scheduled on the agenda in
accordance with published notices.
(Prior Code, § 31.17) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.18 ROLL CALL VOTE.
   All votes of the Town Council shall be non-roll call unless a roll call vote
is requested by a member of the Town Council. In the event a roll call vote is
requested, the Clerk-Treasurer shall call the roll on the question and record
each Council member’s vote separately in the minutes of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 31.18) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.19 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of procedure set forth in this subchapter may be suspended, and
action taken which would otherwise contravene this subchapter be taken, upon a
unanimous affirmative vote of the Town Council at a meeting at which four
Council members are present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 31.19) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.20 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The President of the Town Council shall call a special meeting of the Town
Council either upon the written request of any two Council members delivered in
writing and signed by them, upon the request of the Clerk-Treasurer, orally or
in writing, or upon the President’s own determination. All requests shall state
the purpose for the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.21 CONTROL OF MEETINGS.
   The presiding officer at meetings of the Town Council shall have the
authority to open, control, limit and close public comment on agenda matters,
subject only to contrary direction upon vote of a majority of Council members
present and voting. Persons whose behavior is disruptive of the Council’s
business or disobedient to the directions of the presiding officer or Council
shall be subject to removal from the meeting place.
(Prior Code, § 31.21) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.22 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall organize itself by the election of officers at
the first meeting held during each calendar year. The incumbent Clerk-Treasurer
shall conduct the election of the office of President. In the absence of the
Clerk-Treasurer, the incumbent President of the Town Council shall conduct the
election of the office of President. In the absence of the officer, the members
present shall select one of their number as temporary chair of the meeting for
the conduct of the election of the Office of President. The officers of the
Town Council, who shall hold their respective offices for an annual period,
shall be as follows.
      (1)   President. The President shall be the town executive, as provided
by statute, and shall have all authority and power vested in the executive by
the laws of the state or by this subchapter or any other ordinance.
      (2)   Vice-President. The Vice-President shall perform all of the acts
and duties of the President in the absence or disability of the President.
   (B)   In the event an officer resigns or dies, the Town Council shall elect
a successor to complete the officer’s term of office.
(Prior Code, § 31.22) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.23 LACK OF QUORUM.
   In the event that less than a quorum of the Town Council shall be present
for a regular or special meeting, the Council members as are present may, upon
the passage of 15 minutes after the designated time for the meeting to
commence, declare that no meeting shall commence for lack of a quorum. In that
event, all business on the agenda shall be transferred to the agenda for the
next meeting, whether regular or special, as the Council members present may
determine.
(Prior Code, § 31.23) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 31.24 COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the first meeting of the Town Council in each calendar year,
members of the Town Council shall be elected by majority vote of the Town
Council to each of the following positions:
      (1)   Street Commissioner;
      (2)   Water and Sewer Utility Commissioner;
      (3)   Police Commissioner; and
      (4)   Parks Commissioner.
   (B)   Commissioners of particular departments shall have no independent
authority or jurisdiction to act within the department to which he or she is
assigned, except as specifically authorized by law or by other ordinance, but
the commissioner shall review, oversee and report on the activities of his or
her department, as the Town Council may direct. A member of the Town Council
may serve as a commissioner in not more than two positions.
   (C)   The terms of the appointments of the commissioners hereinabove
provided shall be for one year, commencing on the date of appointment and
terminating on the first Tuesday in January of the following calendar year (or
upon the appointment and qualification of a successor) unless the term is
terminated upon a majority vote of the Council. In the event that any Council
member fails to agree to fill a commission, then the President of the Town
Council shall appoint a commissioner to fulfill the duties of the commissioner
until the position is filled by election by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.24) (Ord. 161-2006, passed 5-8-2007)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Economic Development Commission; Department
   
32.02   Police Reserve
   
32.03   Enforcement authority
§ 32.01 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION; DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town’s economic development, controlled by the Economic
Development Commission, shall be and is hereby created and granted all powers
and duties of the Department and the Commission as set forth in the Act being
I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
   (B)   Commissioners shall be nominated by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 1997-118, passed 6-10-1997; Ord. 2022-050, passed
10-17-2022)
§ 32.02 POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Establishment of Police Reserve. There is hereby established for the
town authority for the appointment of not more than four police reserves who
shall be collectively designated as the Town Police Reserve.
   (B)   Appointment of members. Each officer of the Town Police Reserve shall
be appointed by the Town Council subject to any qualifications as may be
provided by the laws of the state or provided by rules established for the Town
Police Department.
   (C)   Compensation and benefits. No officer of the Police Reserve shall
receive compensation for his or her services. The Town Council may appropriate
sums for benefits for officers of the Town Police Reserve as the Council, at
its discretion, may provide under the authority of I.C. 36-8-3-20, including
fixture amendments of replacements of the statute.
   (D)   Powers and duties. Officers of the Town Police Reserve shall have all
the police powers and duties of regular members of a police department, except
as limited by the laws of the state or by the rules of the Town Police
Department. Qualifications, powers, duties and conduct of officers of the
Police Reserve shall be subject to any and all rules as may be promulgated by
the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 95, passed 2-9-1993; Ord. 2022-050, passed 10-17-
2022)
§ 32.03 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Council hereby appoints the acting Town Marshal to serve as the
Enforcement Authority pursuant to the Unsafe Building Code, and such
appointment shall commence upon the acting Town Marshal taking an oath of
office.
   (B)   The Council hereby appoints the acting Council members of the Council
to serve as the Hearing Authority, pursuant to the Unsafe Building Code, and
such appointment shall commence upon the acting Council members taking oaths of
office.
   (C)   The Enforcement Authority, as hereinabove appointed, shall have all
the statutory powers and authority of the Enforcement Authority pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-9.
   (D)   The Hearing Authority, as hereinabove appointed, shall have all the
statutory powers and authority of the Hearing Authority pursuant to I.C. 36-7-
9.
(Ord. 2020-239, passed 11-18-2020)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
33.01   Capitalization policy
   
33.02   Disbursing money for claim payment
   
33.03   Charges for returned checks
   
33.04   Town betterment and promotion
   
33.05   Fee for access to police audio/video recordings
§ 33.01 CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   All machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property purchased
or owned by the town and/or its utilities which has a life of one year or more
and a value of $5,000 or more, all real property purchased or owned by the town
and/or its utilities and all capital improvements to real property having a
cost of $5,000 or more shall be included on the town’s fixed asset inventory.
   (B)   All machinery, equipment or other property that qualifies for the
town’s asset inventory shall be depreciated as allowed by law and/or as
determined by the town’s accountant or tax advisor.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 2002-134, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 195-2013, passed
11-12-2013)
§ 33.02 DISBURSING MONEY FOR CLAIM PAYMENT.
   (A)   This section is adopted under the authority of I.C. 36-5-4-12.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of division (C) below, the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town is authorized to disburse money to pay claims in advance of their
allowance by the Town Council for the types of expenses and obligations
described in I.C. 36-5-4-12, including all amendments thereto.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certificate by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The Town Council shall review and allow each claim pre-approved under
this section at the Council’s next regular or special meeting following the
payment.
   (E)   The payment in advance of all claims heretofore allowed by the Town
Council is hereby ratified and approved.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 110, passed 9-10-1996)
§ 33.03 CHARGES FOR RETURNED CHECKS.
   The following charges shall be made by the Clerk-Treasurer which receives
negotiable instruments, including checks and credit cards in exchange for the
provision of goods and services.
   (A)   For all checks, as defined by I.C. 26-1-3.1-104, including credit or
debit card or ACH transactions, which are returned to the Clerk-Treasurer by
the bank upon which they are issued regardless of the reason for return, $25
each. If there are two returns within 12 months, the patrons shall pay in cash
only.
   (B)   All funds received for the charges shall be deposited in the town’s
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 180-2010, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 33.04 TOWN BETTERMENT AND PROMOTION.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to appropriate funds in the General
Fund and to expend said funds for the betterment and promotion of the town.
   (A)   A line item for “Town Betterment and Promotion” is hereby established
in the General Fund.
   (B)   Appropriations for town betterment and promotion may be expended for,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal government;
      (2)   Expenses incurred in developing and maintaining good relationships
with other governmental units;
      (3)   Expenses incurred for forms of recognition, appreciation and good
will toward town employees; and/or
      (4)   Other expenses which are deemed by the Town Council to
appropriately promote and better the town.
   (C)   The Town Council may establish specific policies for purchases,
payments and expenditures which may be made pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 208-2016, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 33.05 FEE FOR ACCESS TO POLICE AUDIO/VIDEO RECORDINGS.
   (A)   A fee of $200 shall be paid in advance of providing access to viewing
and/or release to the requesting party of each recording retained by the Town
Police Department on portable audio/video recording devices.
   (B)   The requesting party’s right to access by viewing and/or release of
any recording shall be governed by state statute and by the procedures of the
Town Police Department which may be applicable at the time of the request. This
section shall not be construed to create a right to access, independent of
state statute governing access by viewing or release of such recordings.
   (C)   Upon proof of indigence of the requesting party, the Town Council may
reduce or waive the fee established above.
(Ord. 224-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Creation
   
34.02   Duties
   
34.03   Notice
   
34.04   Admissions
   
34.05   Denials
   
34.06   Schedule of penalties
§ 34.01 CREATION.
   (A)   An Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be established to assist with the
clerical work for ordinance violation cases issued by the town for violations
of Title VII and Chapters 93, 95 and 152 of the town code. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to violations of titles or chapters of the town
code other than specifically provided herein.
   (B)   Said Bureau shall be established within the Clerk-Treasurer’s office
and shall be maintained and operated by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office under the
supervision of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 222-2018, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 34.02 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall receive all citation payments
made pursuant to a violation of Title VII, Title IX and Chapter 152 of the town
code and appropriately account for said payments.
   (B)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall accept designated fines and
issue receipts for payments of citations issued under these titles between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Tuesday through Thursday at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office located in the Town Hall.
   (C)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall keep records and submit
summarized quarterly reports to the Town Council of all notices issued and
citations issued for violations of ordinances in the town, of all fines
collected by the Ordinance Violations Bureau and of the final disposition of
each case. These records shall also be maintained as to show all types of
violations and the totals of each. These records shall be public records.
   (D)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall keep an easily accessible record
of all violations for which any person has been convicted during the preceding
12 months, whether guilt was determined by admission through the Bureau or in
the appropriate court.
(Ord. 222-2018, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 34.03 NOTICE.
   Any law enforcement officer who issues an ordinance citation for violation
of Title VII, Title IX or Chapter 152 of the town code shall serve a copy of
the citation upon the person alleged to have violated the town code and serve
another copy of the citation on the Ordinance Violations Bureau. The law
enforcement officer shall also serve upon the person alleged to have violated
the town code under the above mentioned provisions a notice and waiver form
setting forth the amount of the fine, the deadline for payment of the fine, the
procedure for admitting the violation and paying the fine and the procedure for
denying the violation.
(Ord. 222-2018, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 34.04 ADMISSIONS.
   Any person served with a citation shall have the option of paying the fine
within the time specified in the notice and waiver form to the Ordinance
Violations Bureau upon entering an admission to the violation and upon waiving
appearance in court. If the person who is issued a citation wishes to admit the
allegation and pay the appropriate fine, said person shall either mail or
personally deliver the notice and waiver form along with a money order in the
amount of the appropriate fine payable to the town to the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office. The payment of a fine to the Bureau shall be deemed an acknowledgment
of conviction of the alleged offense, and the Bureau shall give a receipt for
the fine acknowledging payment thereof.
(Ord. 222-2018, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 34.05 DENIALS.
   If the person who is issued a violation citation wishes to deny the
violation, or fails to pay the violation within 30 days of the date of the
violation, the citation shall be dismissed from the Ordinance Violations Bureau
and shall be re-filed with the office of the County Prosecuting Attorney or the
Town Attorney for filing as a separate cause of action in the appropriate
court.
(Ord. 222-2018, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 34.06 SCHEDULE OF PENALTIES.
   The schedule of penalties is adopted and incorporated as part of this
chapter as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 222-2018, passed 9-11-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Water rates
   
50.02   Sewer rates
   
50.03   Garbage rates
   
50.04   Liability for services; rentals
   
50.05   Deposit for new utility customers
   
50.06   Tap fees for new service
§ 50.01 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Findings. The Town Council finds that the proposed rates and charges
set forth in Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified herein, are
necessary and reasonable to produce sufficient revenue to pay the legal and
other necessary expenses incident to the operation of the water utility,
including maintenance costs, operating charges, upkeep, repairs, depreciation,
interest charges on bonds or other obligations, and to provide debt service
reserve for bonds or other obligations, adequate working capital and adequate
money for extensions and replacements of the town’s municipal water utility.
   (B)   Adoption of new rates and charges. The schedule of rates and charges
for the services of the town’s water utility are as follows:
Inside Town Boundaries
              Rates Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Rates Phase I Effective Phase II       Phase III      Phase IV
Per Month     on Adoption       Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                                2024           2025           2026
Inside Town Boundaries
              Rates Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Rates Phase I Effective Phase II       Phase III      Phase IV
Per Month     on Adoption       Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                                2024           2025           2026
First 2,500   $9.04             $9.63          $10.26         $10.92
gallons
Next 2,500    $6.76             $7.20          $7.67          $8.17
gallons
Next 5,000    $5.42             $5.77          $6.15          $6.55
gallons
Next 10,000   $4.54             $4.83          $5.15          $5.48
gallons
Next 20,000   $4.15             $4.42          $4.71          $5.02
gallons
 
Outside Town Boundaries*
              Rates Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Rates Phase I Effective Phase II       Phase III      Phase IV
Per Month     on Adoption       Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                                2024           2025           2026
Outside Town Boundaries*
              Rates Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Rates Phase I Effective Phase II       Phase III      Phase IV
Per Month     on Adoption       Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                                2024           2025           2026
First 2,500   $10.31            $10.98         $11.69         $12.45
gallons
Next 2,500    $7.71             $8.21          $8.74          $9.31
gallons
Next 5,000    $6.18             $6.58          $7.01          $7.47
gallons
Next 10,000   $5.17             $5.51          $5.87          $6.25
gallons
Next 20,000   $4.74             $5.04          $5.37          $5.72
gallons
*Outside town boundaries, rates and charges are approximately 14% higher
than the rates and charges for customers inside the town boundaries
 
   (C)   Minimum charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will
be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of rates:
Inside Town Boundaries
                      Minimum Monthly Rate
Size of Meter Gallons Phase I      Phase II       Phase III      Phase IV
              Allowed Effective on Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                      Adoption     2024           2025           2026
Inside Town Boundaries
                          Minimum Monthly Rate
Size of Meter Gallons     Phase I      Phase II     Phase III    Phase IV
              Allowed     Effective on Effective 1- Effective 1- Effective 1-1-
                          Adoption     1-2024       1-2025       2026
5/8” - 3/42,500       $22.60       $24.07       $25.65       $24.30
1”          4,865       $38.60       $41.11       $43.78       $46.63
1-1/4”      8,403       $57.96       $61.73       $65.74       $70.01
1-1/2”      12,345      $77.26       $82.28       $87.62       $93.32
2”          20,930      $115.85      $123.38      $131.40      $139.94
3”          55,044      $257.54      $274.28      $292.11      $311.10
4”          101,534     $450.64      $479.93      $511.12      $544.35
6”          225,527     $965.64      $1,028.41    $1,095.25    $1,166.45
Public hydrant rental per $32,715.74   $34,842.26   $37,107      $39,518.96
annum
Outside Town Boundaries
                      Minimum Monthly Rate
Size of Meter Gallons Phase I      Phase II       Phase III      Phase IV
              Allowed Effective on Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                      Adoption     2024           2025           2026
Outside Town Boundaries
                      Minimum Monthly Rate
Size of Meter Gallons Phase I      Phase II       Phase III      Phase IV
              Allowed Effective on Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                      Adoption     2024           2025           2026
5/8” - 3/42,500   $25.78       $27.45         $29.23         $31.13
1”          4,865   $44          $46.86         $49.91         $53.15
1-1/4”      8,403   $66.08       $70.37         $74.94         $79.81
1-1/2”      12,345  $88.07       $93.79         $99.89         $106.39
2”          20,930  $132.07      $140.65        $149.79        $159.54
3”          55,044  $293.60      $312.68        $333.01        $354.67
4”          101,534 $513.73      $547.13        $582.71        $620.59
6”          225,527 $1,100.84    $1,172.43      $1,248.68      $1,329.83
*Outside the town boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14% higher
than the rates and charges for customers inside the town boundaries
 
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 170-2008, passed 10-14-2008; Ord. 2023-275, passed
5-2-2023)
§ 50.02 SEWER RATES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewer system
or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the
town, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall be
based on the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject
to such rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter there in
use.
   (B)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said sewage rates and
charges shall be determined shall be as stated in the attached Exhibit A,
attached to the ordinance codified herein, which is here incorporated by
reference.
   (C)   The monthly charge for the owner of a property which is not metered
and not served by the town shall be:
      (1)   Phase I: A flat charge of $55.69 per month;
      (2)   Phase II: A flat charge of $64.99 for services commencing on or
after February 1, 2018; and
      (3)   Phase III: A flat charge of $72.33 for services commencing on or
after February 1, 2019.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 216-2017, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 50.03 GARBAGE RATES.
   (A)   (1)   A fee of $9.63 per month shall be charged to residential users
of municipal utilities.
      (2)   The fees shall be billed on a monthly basis in addition to the
charges for other services of municipal utilities.
   (B)   The fee shall be effective January 1, 2010, and the Clerk-Treasurer is
authorized and directed to commence billing the new rate with the January 2010
billing.
   (C)   Pursuant to statute, if a residential utility service user does not
pay the fee within 30 days after it is due, the amount of the fee, together
with a penalty of 10% and reasonable attorneys’ fees, may be recovered by the
town in a civil action in the name of the unit.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 172-2009, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 50.04 LIABILITY FOR SERVICES; RENTALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DWELLING UNIT. A structure or the part of a structure that is used as a
home, residence or sleeping place by one person who maintains a household or by
two or more persons who maintain a common household.
      LANDLORD. The owner, lessor or sublessor of residential premises, his or
her agent or any person authorized by him or her to manage the premises or to
receive rent from a tenant under rental agreement.
      RENTAL AGREEMENT. Any agreement or lease, written or oral, which
establishes or modifies the terms, conditions, rules or any other provisions
concerning the use and occupancy of residential premises by one of the parties.
      RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. A dwelling unit for residential use and occupancy
and the structure of which it is a part, the facilities and appurtenances in
it, and the grounds, areas and facilities for the use of tenants generally or
the use of which is promised the tenant.
      TENANT. A person entitled under a rental agreement to the use and
occupancy of residential premises to the exclusion of others.
   (B)   Liability for payment of utilities. A tenant who is a party to a
rental agreement shall pay for the municipal water and sewer services provided
by the town utilities for the tenant’s dwelling unit pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-
8.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 166-2008, passed 10-14-2008; Ord. 2022-053, passed
10-17-2022)
§ 50.05 DEPOSIT FOR NEW UTILITY CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all new customers to the town’s water,
wastewater or stormwater utilities a deposit of $250. Such deposit shall be
collected and kept by the town until such time as 12 consecutive months of
payments are paid on time by the customer. If the customer discontinues service
prior to the completion of the 12-month period and fails to establish service
at a different location within the service area of the town’s utilities, such
funds shall be refunded to the customer as long as the customer’s account is
paid in full. If the customer discontinues service prior to the completion of
the 12-month period and fails to establish service at a different location
within the service area of the town’s utilities, and if such customer has an
outstanding balance on his or her account, the funds shall be applied to the
outstanding balance. Any funds remaining after the outstanding balance is paid
in full shall be refunded to the customer.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed on all customers to the town’s water,
wastewater or stormwater utilities a $25 fee for all checks which are returned
as insufficient.
   (C)   There is hereby imposed on all customers to the town’s water,
wastewater or stormwater utilities a 10% penalty for any payments paid after
the fifteenth of each month.
(Ord. 238-2021, passed 1-12-2021)
§ 50.06 TAP FEES FOR NEW SERVICE.
   (A)   Findings. The Town Council finds that the proposed charges set forth
below are necessary and reasonable to produce sufficient revenue to pay the
labor, material, and contractual expenses incident to the connection of new
wastewater, stormwater and water services.
   (B)   Adoption of new charges. The schedule of charges for tap connection
are as follows:
 
Connection Type                                             Charge
Stormwater connection                                       $1,000
Wastewater connection                                       $1,000
Water connection: Standard residential 3/4 by 5/8 meter set $2,000
Water connection: One-inch meter set                        $3,000
Water connection: Two-inch meter set                        $6,50
 
(Ord. 2023-278, passed 9-12-2023)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Mandatory connection
   
51.03   Private sewage disposal systems
   
51.04   Connection to sanitary sewer
   
51.05   Inspection
   
51.06   Noncompliance; surcharge
   
51.07   Prohibited wastes
   
51.08   Inspection and entry
   
51.09   Sump pumps
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the sanitary building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal. Care, maintenance and the costs of inspection
of the BUILDING SEWER are the responsibility of the owner of the real estate on
which the sanitary building drain is located and to which the BUILDING SEWER
connects. The BUILDING SEWER includes all portions of the extension from the
sanitary building drain to and including the place where the BUILDING SEWER
connects with the public sewer.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPLIANCE. (And the root of derivatives of the word.) Compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and any amendments thereto and/or the provisions of
this chapter.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council.
   EMPLOYEES. Employees or designated representatives or officials of the
town’s wastewater treatment facility as the Council shall, from time to time,
designate and utilize in making the inspection and/or tests hereafter described
in carrying out the other duties as prescribed herein to be performed on behalf
of the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing process,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN.
      (1)   The part of the lowest horizontal piping of the sanitary drainage
system inside the walls of any building which received the discharge from soil
or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a point three feet outside
the building walls where it connects with its respective building sewer.
      (2)   Care and maintenance of the SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN are the
responsibility of the owner of the real estate on which the SANITARY BUILDING
DRAIN is located.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with the
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quality of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The town’s wastewater treatment plant operator and/or
personnel authorized by the operator.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM. All of the facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage owned by the town within the sanitary sewer service area of
the town.
   USER. The owner, lessee or occupant of the property on which the buildings
and/or appurtenances that are connected to the system are located.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008; Ord. 2022-057, passed
10-17-2022)
§ 51.02 MANDATORY CONNECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of written notice to do
so; provided, that the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as is deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $375 shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Department.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town.
      (3)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $375 for a residential or commercial
building permit and $500 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid
to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   In addition to the permit and inspection fee provided above, all other
costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building
sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector and
his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the works shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (L)   The owner shall operate and maintain the building sewer and sanitary
building drain in a sanitary manner at all times and shall be responsible for
all care and maintenance of the building sewer and the sanitary building drain,
at no expense to the town. Should the building sewer need inspected by the
town, the owner shall bear all expense related to such inspection.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008; Ord. 2022-057, passed
10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 INSPECTION.
   A user utilizing the system of the town may avoid the imposition of any
penalties, fees or charges with regard to the use and utilization by
presentation of proof of compliance and continuing compliance with the
provisions of the town’s ordinances and any amendments thereto, which proof
shall consist of and include compliance with the following procedures and
conditions as to each building and/or appurtenance connected thereto.
   (A)   Upon request by the Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent or a
designated town employee, either in writing or by personal contact, each user
utilizing the system shall, within ten days, as to each building and/or
appurtenance so connected to the system, execute a “grant of inspection” to the
town to permit entry upon the property served by the system on which the
building and/or appurtenances are located, to inspect and/or perform tests as
may be deemed necessary by the town to verify and prove compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   The grant of inspection shall be deemed to include the right of
periodic inspections and/or tests thereafter, as may be reasonably determined
to be necessary by the town to maintain, monitor and ensure continued
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Once a grant of inspection has been executed, it shall be deemed to be
an ongoing authorization as provided for herein. Once a grant of inspection has
been executed, it may not be revoked by the original grantor.
   (D)   Reasonable written notice of at least 24 hours shall be given by the
Superintendent or designated employee to the user of the time and place at
which the inspections and/or tests provided for herein are to be made.
   (E)   There shall be no fees charged for any inspections and/or tests
conducted and performed under this section.
   (F)   In the event a user utilizing the system executes the grant of
inspection, and the town determines that the buildings and/or appurtenances are
in compliance, no surcharge, fines or other penalties shall be imposed or
levied upon the user; provided, however, that the town shall have the right and
authority, pursuant to the grant of inspection executed as required hereby and
the terms of this chapter, to conduct additional inspections and/or tests at a
later date to determine that compliance still exists.
   (G)   In the event a user utilizing the system fails or refuses to execute a
grant of inspection for the purposes provided for herein, a surcharge of $25
per month shall be imposed in addition to all other charges authorized and
imposed under any applicable ordinances of the city, commencing at the next
billing period following the date of the failure and refusal to execute the
grant of inspection to the town. If the user continues to refuse to execute a
grant of inspection after a period of 60 days, the surcharge shall be raised to
$50 per month.
   (H)   In the event a user utilizing the system executes the grant of
inspection, and the town inspects, conducts tests and determines that the
buildings and/or appurtenances of the user are not in compliance, then and in
that event, the town by its designated employee shall provide written notice of
the results of the inspection and tests to the user, who shall be required to
permanently comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter within 45
days of the date of the notice.
   (I)   In the event that the building and/or appurtenances of the user are
determined not to be in compliance with this chapter, and any amendments
thereto, and the time period referred to herein for corrective work expires,
and the user refuses or fails to bring buildings and/or appurtenances in
compliance with the aforementioned ordinance, a surcharge of $50 per month per
billing account for the user shall be imposed, in addition to all other charges
authorized and imposed under any applicable ordinances of the town commencing
at the next billing period following the date of the inspection or testing by
the district wherein the noncompliance was determined, for permitting the
violation to continue to exist.
   (J)   The surcharge referred to herein shall be removed only upon the
following conditions:
      (1)   The user utilizing the system executes a grant of inspection to the
town or takes the required corrective action required to bring about
compliance;
      (2)   The town inspects and/or performs tests on the building and/or
appurtenances connected to the system and determines that the buildings and/or
appurtenances so connected to the system are in compliance; and
      (3)   The payment in full of all surcharges billed to the user utilizing
the system until the time period the buildings and/or appurtenances in question
of the user are determined to be in compliance.
   (K)   The failure or refusal by the user utilizing the system to execute a
grant of inspection or to cause his or her buildings and/or appurtenances to be
in compliance, after being determined not to be in compliance, within the
statutory guidelines from date of the failure, refusal or notice of
noncompliance shall cause the town, by its Wastewater Treatment Plant
Superintendent or other town official designated by the Town Council, to
prepare a notice of violation of town ordinance as to the property in violation
of this chapter and to file the notice for recording in the office of the
County Recorder. The notice of violation shall be in conformance with
applicable state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 NONCOMPLIANCE; SURCHARGE.
   In the event a user is found to be in compliance and subsequent inspections
and/or tests determine that noncompliance now exists, the terms and provisions
of §
51.05(D), (H), (I) and (J) shall be applicable, except that in addition to the
surcharge to be charged in accordance with §
51.05(I), if any, the user shall be liable for payment of a sum equal to the
sum of the months since the original determination of compliance was made,
multiplied by the monthly surcharge amount provided for in §
51.05(I), for knowingly, willfully and/or intentionally creating or permitting
the violation to commence and continue to be charged in accordance with §
51.05(I), if any, the user shall be liable for payment of a sum equal to the
sum of the months since the original determination of compliance was made,
multiplied by the monthly surcharge amount provided for in §
51.05(I), for knowingly, willfully and/or intentionally creating or permitting
the violation to commence and continue.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 51.07 PROHIBITED WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gasses in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to the factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of the treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F (0°C) and 150°F (65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to a degree that any material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
Superintendent for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulation;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues or of dissolved
solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amendable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.05(J).
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located so as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 INSPECTION AND ENTRY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties at all reasonable times for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary works on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town’s employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
51.07(H).
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties at all reasonable times through which the town holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 51.09 SUMP PUMPS.
   (A)   Connection of sump pumps to the town’s sanitary sewer system shall not
be allowed. Sump pump systems which have valves, flexible hoses or other means
to route sump pump discharges into the town’s sanitary sewer system shall not
be allowed. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the sump pumps or
sump pump systems to disconnect such connected sump pumps or sump pump systems
from the town’s sanitary sewer system at his or her own expense and at no cost
to the town.
   (B)   Access to a residence to inspect sump pump and sump pump system
connections shall be granted by the owner of the real estate. Where access by
authorized town employees to a residence is denied, or when an owner of real
property fails to grant access, the town shall have the authority to obtain a
civil warrant to inspect the sump pump or sump pump system to determine if a
disallowed connection has been made.
   (C)   If a disallowed connection is discovered, the town shall provide
notice in writing to the owner of the real estate.
   (D)   After receiving notice as described herein, an owner of real property
must disconnect a sump pump or sump pump system from the town’s sanitary sewer
system within 30 days of the date of notice.
(Ord. 2022-057, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Noncompliance: civil penalty. In the event a user is found to be in a
state of noncompliance a second or subsequent time, then the user shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $1,000, plus an amount equal to the sum of the
months since the original noncompliance determination was corrected (and if
never corrected, from the date of the noncompliance determination), multiplied
by the monthly surcharge amount provided for in §
51.05(G) or (I) for knowingly, willfully and/or intentionally permitting the
violation to commence and continue.
   (B)   Penalty for prohibited wastes violations.
      (1)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §
51.07 shall be served with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be subject to a civil penalty of
$1,000 for each violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate violation.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of violation.
      (4)   (a)   Failure to disconnect a sump pump or sump pump system from
the town’s sanitary sewer system within 30 days in violation of §
51.09 shall result in a fine not to exceed $5,000. Each additional month’s
failure to disconnect shall constitute a separate violation.
         (b)   Any person found to be violating §
51.09 shall be liable to the town and shall be subject to a civil penalty of an
amount not to exceed $5,000. Each additional month’s failure to disconnect
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.99) (Ord. 165-2008, passed 6-17-2008; Ord. 2022-057, passed
10-17-2022; Ord. 2022-061, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
Residential Trash Disposal
   
52.01   Commercial use prohibited
   
52.02   Use of service restricted to residents of town
   
52.03   Approved means of disposal; prohibited articles
   
52.04   Designated trash pickup days
   
52.05   Regulation of the deposit and removal of trash bags and receptacles
 
   
52.99   Penalty
RESIDENTIAL TRASH DISPOSAL
§ 52.01 COMMERCIAL USE PROHIBITED.
   Commercial use of the residential waste collection service of the town is
prohibited.
(Ord. 192-2013, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 USE OF SERVICE RESTRICTED TO RESIDENTS OF TOWN.
   Use of the residential waste collection service of the town is restricted to
residents of the town for the disposal of residential household waste generated
only by residents of and within the town. Use of the residential waste
collection service of the town by any other persons or for trash or waste
generated elsewhere is prohibited.
(Ord. 192-2013, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 APPROVED MEANS OF DISPOSAL; PROHIBITED ARTICLES.
   (A)   All residential trash and waste deposited for collection by the town
shall be secured by the person or persons using the residential waste
collection service in bags manufactured for such purpose or in plastic or metal
receptacles manufactured for such purpose and not exceeding 33 gallons in
capacity, as rated by the manufacturer. Articles of waste or junk exceeding the
capacity of a bag or receptacle designed for residential waste but not
exceeding 50 pounds each may be deposited for collection without a bag or
receptacle.
   (B)   (1)   The following items and categories of items may not be disposed
using the residential waste collection system of the town except on dates and
at times specially designated by the Town Council for collection:
         (a)   Oil and other petroleum products, paint, solvents, articles or
cans too large for packer-type trucks;
         (b)   Grass clippings, leaves and tree limbs;
         (c)   All debris and waste building materials from construction,
repair or remodeling of buildings or parts thereof;
         (d)   Refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, washers, dryers,
stoves or water heaters; or
         (e)   Hazardous substances of any kind.
      (2)   Large chairs, couches, mattresses and box springs will be taken
away, but the resident shall be liable for the waste contractor’s additional
charges for such items.
(Ord. 192-2013, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 52.04 DESIGNATED TRASH PICKUP DAYS.
   (A)   The Town Council may establish and from time to time change the
designation of trash pickup days for the collection of residential waste within
the town. The date or dates of trash pickup of residential waste within the
town are maintained and available for public inspection in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer during the business hours of said office.
   (B)   Users of utilities of the town shall be notified of any changes in the
designation of trash pickup days by inclusion of notice in the utility billing
mailed in the month immediately prior to the month in which such change is
effective.
(Ord. 192-2013, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 52.05 REGULATION OF THE DEPOSIT AND REMOVAL OF TRASH BAGS AND RECEPTACLES.
   Bags of trash and receptacles containing trash shall not be set out for
collection prior to 6:00 p.m. local time the day prior to the designated trash
pickup day. Bags of trash and receptacles containing trash shall be placed as
near to the curb or traveled portion of the resident’s alley or street as can
reasonably be done without interfering with vehicular use of the alley or
sheet. Empty receptacles, uncollected trash from broken bags or receptacles and
articles deposited but not permitted for collection on trash pickup days shall
be removed from the public rights-of-way by 6:00 p.m. local time the day
immediately following the designated trash pickup day.
(Ord. 192-2013, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, film or corporation who violates any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.05 shall be subject to a penalty not to exceed $300. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation of §§
52.01 through
52.05. In the event that an action on behalf of the town is commenced in a
court of competent jurisdiction, the town shall be entitled to an award of
reasonable attorneys’ fees in addition to the penalty stated herein, as
provided by the statutes of the state.
(Ord. 192-2013, passed 10-8-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   EMERGENCY TRAVEL
      
75.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Application
   
70.02   Short title
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Duty of Town Marshal’s office
   
70.05   Record of traffic violations
   
70.06   Emergency traffic control
   
70.07   Town Marshal to designate method of identifying funeral processions
   
70.08   Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures
   
70.09   Official misconduct
   
70.10   Duties of Town Attorney
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and municipally-
operated property except where a different place is specifically referred to in
a given section.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the town’s traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever any
words and phrases used herein are not defined herein but are defined in the
state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, any such definition therein
shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein, except when the
context otherwise requires. Where state law has defined terms or phrases
included in this section, the definition of those terms or phrases presented in
this section are to conform with the definition set forth by state law. If the
definition of a term or phrase included in this section is altered by state
law, the definition set forth in this section is intended to coincide with the
definition included in state law.
   ALLEY. A street intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of through
vehicular traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances as are operated by or for health and hospital
corporations pursuant to I.C. 9-13-2-6; provided, however, that ambulances and
other vehicles which are owned by persons, firms or corporations other than
hospitals and are used in emergency services are designated as emergency
vehicles if such vehicles are authorized to operate as such by the state’s
Office of Traffic Safety or which are approved by the State Emergency Medical
Services Commission.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street within
the Central Business District or any commercial district as defined by the Town
Zoning Ordinance and zoning map (designations CBD and C, respectively).
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the lines
of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the street measured from the curbs or, in
the absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable roadway, regardless of
the presence of pavement markings.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   HOLIDAY. The following days of the year shall be designated as holidays:
January 1, commonly known as New Year’s Day; the last Monday of May, commonly
known as Memorial Day; July 4, commonly known as Independence Day; the first
Monday of September, commonly known as Labor Day; the fourth Thursday of
November, commonly known as Thanksgiving Day; and December 25, commonly known
as Christmas Day.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets joining at any
other angle may come in conflict. The junction of any alley with a street shall
not constitute an INTERSECTION.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   OFFICER or POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Standard time or daylight-saving time, as may be in
current use in the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected, by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PARKING SPACE or PARKING PLACE. A designated portion of the surface of a
street of sufficient length and depth to accommodate a vehicle of reasonable
dimensions to be parked. Such designated portion shall be specified and marked
off as provided in this title.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory continuous to and including a street
within or running along the boundary of any Residential District or Flood Plain
District as defined by the Town Zoning Ordinance and zoning map (designations
R-1, R-2, MH and F-P).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STATE LAW. State laws regulating and relating to motor vehicles and their
operation.
   STOP or STOPPING.
      (1)   When required, means complete cessation from movement.
      (2)   When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TOWN COUNCIL. A simple majority vote of the Town Council.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980; Ord. 2022-049, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 70.04 DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL’S OFFICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal and deputies to enforce the street
traffic regulations of this town and all of the state laws, make arrests for
traffic violations, assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of this title, investigate accidents, cooperate with officials of
the town in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions and carry out those duties specially imposed upon
the Town Marshal and deputies by the traffic ordinances of this town and state
law.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.05 RECORD OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   The Town Marshal’s office shall keep a record of all violations of the
traffic ordinances of this town or of the state vehicle laws of which any
person has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all
such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types
of violations and the total of each.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.06 EMERGENCY TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The Town Marshal is authorized to temporarily place official traffic-control
devices when required by an emergency. The Town Marshal shall notify the
President of the Town Council of his or her actions as soon thereafter as is
practicable. The official traffic-control devices shall not remain longer than
30 days unless authorized by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.07 TOWN MARSHAL TO DESIGNATE METHOD OF IDENTIFYING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   The Town Marshal shall determine the method of identification for funeral
processions as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.08 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of
bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this
title shall be paid into the town treasury and deposited in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.09 OFFICIAL MISCONDUCT.
   Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of any judicial or other officer or
employee receiving or having custody of any such fine or forfeiture, either
before or after a deposit in the General Fund, to comply with the foregoing
provisions of this section shall constitute misconduct in office and shall be
grounds for removal therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 70.09) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 DUTIES OF TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Attorney or his or her duly appointed deputy is authorized to
prosecute all charges of violation of this title.
(Prior Code, § 70.10) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. Such violations of
this chapter shall be referred to the office of the County Prosecutor.
   (B)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this title other than §§
73.070 through
73.076 and
Chapter 74 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. Upon conviction
of a third or subsequent offense committed within one year after the date of
the first offense, the penalty shall be a fine of not more than $1,000.
   (C)   (1)   The violations referred to in this traffic code shall have as
their definitions the definitions provided in the state code, reference to
which is made in this division (C).
         (a)   Registration certificate. I.C. 9-18.1-2-11 is hereby
incorporated by reference.
         (b)   License plates; display. I.C. 9-18.1-4-4 is hereby incorporated
by reference.
         (c)   Prohibited displays. I.C. 9-18.1-4-5 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (d)   Safety belts. I.C. 9-19-10-8 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (e)   Children less than eight years of age. I.C. 9-19-11-2 is hereby
incorporated by reference.
         (f)   Maximum speed limits. I.C. 9-21-5-2 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (g)   Following other vehicles. I.C. 9-21-8-14 is hereby incorporated
by reference.
         (h)   Unsafe start. I.C. 9-21-8-23 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (i)   Disregarding stop sign. I.C. 9-21-8-32 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (j)   No license. I.C. 9-24-1-1 is hereby incorporated by reference.
         (k)   Motorcycle operation. I.C. 9-21-10-13 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (l)   Learner’s permit violations. I.C. 9-24-7-6 is hereby
incorporated by reference.
         (m)   Possession and display of license. I.C. 9-24-13-5 is hereby
incorporated by reference,
         (n)   Passing school bus. I.C. 9-21-12-1 and 9-21-8-52 is hereby
incorporated by reference.
         (o)   Parallel parking. I.C. 9-21-16-7 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (p)   Motorized bicycles. I.C. 9-21-11-14 is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (q)   Motorized bicycles; safety equipment. I.C. 9-21-11-14 is hereby
incorporated by reference.
         (r)   Expired license plates. I.C. 9-18.1-11-2 is hereby incorporated
by reference.
         (s)   Driver’s view and control. I.C. 9-21-8-43, is hereby
incorporated by reference.
         (t)   Operating a vehicle while using a telecommunication device. I.C.
9-21-8-59 is hereby incorporated by reference.
      (2)   (a)   The Town Council shall adopt and may from time to time amend
a schedule of violations of this traffic code and the amount of civil penalty
to be assessed.
         (b)   The Town Council shall adopt and approve forms and procedures,
which it may from time to time amend and modify, to conform with the
requirements of the state code.
(Prior Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 88, passed - -; Ord. 2022-049, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.02   Drivers in a procession
   
71.03   When permits are required for parades and processions
   
71.04   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
71.05   Unlawful riding
   
71.06   Driving upon a sidewalk
   
71.07   Containment of loads
   
71.08   Pedestrians to cross at right angles
   
71.09   Truck routes
General Traffic Operation
   
71.20   Speed limits
   
71.21   Turning movements
   
71.22   Stop and yield intersections
   
71.23   One-way streets and alleys
Enforcement and Obedience
   
71.35   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.36   Required obedience to traffic code
   
71.37   Certain nonmotorized traffic to obey traffic regulations
   
71.38   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.39   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
71.40   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.41   Written reports of accidents
   
71.42   When driver is unable to report
   
71.43   Written accident reports confidential
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.03 WHEN PERMITS ARE REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No procession or parade except funeral processions, the United States Armed
Forces, the military forces of this state and the forces of the Police and Fire
Departments shall occupy, march or proceed along any street, except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Town Council and such other regulations
as are set forth which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended
for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 DRIVING UPON A SIDEWALK.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area, except
upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 CONTAINMENT OF LOADS.
   (A)   Any person hauling stone, oil, rubbish or any other material shall see
that the vehicle shall be of adequate dimensions and tight, so that none of
such material shall fall from such vehicle.
   (B)   Any material falling from a vehicle shall be promptly removed from the
street by the driver, who shall be responsible for any damage done.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.08 PEDESTRIANS TO CROSS AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   Except where otherwise indicated by a crosswalk or other official traffic-
control devices, a pedestrian shall cross a roadway at right angles to the
roadway or by the shortest route to the opposite side.
(Prior Code, § 71.08) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.09 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans,
shall be allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purposes of local pickup and delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be declared
unlawful and an infraction.
(Ord. 2022-245, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
GENERAL TRAFFIC OPERATION
§ 71.20 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   State speed laws applicable. The state traffic laws regulating the
speed of vehicles shall be applicable upon all streets within this town, except
as this title, as authorized by state law, hereby declares and determines, upon
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that certain speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in
which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so determined when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
   (B)   Speed in alleys. Except when a special hazard exists that requires
lower speed for compliance with state law, the maximum lawful speed limit in an
alley shall be ten mph, and no person shall drive a vehicle in an alley in
excess of such limit.
(Prior Code, § 71.41)
(Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Authority to place devices altering normal course for turns. The Town
Council is authorized to place official traffic-control devices within or
adjacent to intersections, indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning at such intersections. Such course to be traveled as so indicated may
conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 71.55)
   (B)   Limitations on turning around. The driver of any vehicle shall not
turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in
a Business District.
(Prior Code, § 71.56)
(Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.22 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Intersection where stop or yield is required. The Town Council is
hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections where a particular
hazard exists and to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more
entrances to any such intersection, in which event it shall have erected a stop
sign at every such place where a stop is required, or whether vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different street at such intersection,
in which event it shall have erected a yield sign at every place where
obedience thereto is required.
(Prior Code, § 71.85)
   (B)   Yield right-of-way at alley exit. The driver of a vehicle about to
enter a street from an alley shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicles or
pedestrians approaching on the street.
(Prior Code, § 71.86)
(Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.23 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to determine and designate one-way
streets or alleys and shall place official traffic-control devices giving
notice thereof. No such designation shall be effective unless such devices are
in place.
(Prior Code, § 71.70) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE
§ 71.35 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal and deputies, or such deputies as are assigned by the
Town Marshal are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, the Town
Marshal and deputies may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct traffic in the immediate vicinity of a fire or fire equipment.
   (C)   School crossing guards are authorized to direct traffic at a
designated school crossing during period of arrival or departure of school
children.
(Prior Code, § 71.20) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.36 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It is unlawful and a municipal ordinance violation for any person to do any
act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title.
(Prior Code, § 71.21) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 CERTAIN NONMOTORIZED TRAFFIC TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling a pushcart, riding an animal or driving any animal-
drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
title, except those provisions of this title which by their very nature can
have no application.
(Prior Code, § 71.22) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.38 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, sled,
toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk. When so crossing, such person shall be granted all of
the rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 71.23) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.39 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles
owned or operated by the United States, this state or any political subdivision
of the state, subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this
title or in the State Vehicle Code. The provisions of this title shall not
apply to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
work in a street.
(Prior Code, § 71.24) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.40 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exceed the maximum speed limits established in this title, or may park or
stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title. This section shall not
relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to park or
stand with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall this section
protect the driver from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for
the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 71.25) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.41 WRITTEN REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle, which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or property damage to an apparent
extent of $100 or more shall, within five days after such accident, forward a
written report of such accident to the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles and
Traffic Safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.26) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.42 WHEN DRIVER IS UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report of an
accident, as required in §
71.41, and such driver is not the owner of the vehicle, then the owner of the
vehicle involved in such accident shall, within five days after learning of the
accident, make such report not made by the driver.
(Prior Code, § 71.27) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.43 WRITTEN ACCIDENT REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL.
   All written accident reports made by drivers or owners of vehicles involved
in accidents, as required in §§
71.41 and
71.42, shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be
for the confidential use of the Town Marshal’s office for accident prevention
purposes. The Town Marshal may disclose the identity of a person involved in an
accident.
(Prior Code, § 71.28) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found violating the provisions of §
71.09 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
(Ord. 2022-245, passed 5-10-2022)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
72.02   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
72.03   When official traffic-control devices are required for enforcement
purposes
   
72.04   Interference with official traffic-control devices
   
72.05   Official traffic-control devices; presumption of legality
   
72.06   Town Council to designate crosswalks
   
72.07   Traffic lanes
   
72.08   Temporary speed humps/bumps
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall place and maintain official traffic-control
devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this town to make
effective the provisions of said ordinances.
   (B)   It may place and maintain such additional official traffic-control
devices as it may deem necessary to regulate, warn or guide traffic under the
traffic ordinances of this town or the state vehicle laws.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 72.02 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices to be installed after
the effective date of this title shall conform to the then current State Manual
on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
   (B)   All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall be uniform as to type and location throughout the town. All traffic-
control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state
law or this title shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 72.03 WHEN OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES ARE REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT
PURPOSES.
   (A)   No provision of this title for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official device is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-
control devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no
devices are in place.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 72.04 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
damage or remove any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in positions
approximately conforming to the requirements of this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority and shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this title,
unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 72.06 TOWN COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to designate and maintain, by
appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks
at intersections, where in its opinion, there is particular danger to
pedestrians crossing the roadway and any such other places as it may deem
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 72.07 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway
of any street or highway under the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 72.08 TEMPORARY SPEED HUMPS/BUMPS.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to install and maintain temporary
speed humps/bumps, where, in its opinion, a high concentration of speeding
occurs and there is a particular danger to pedestrians and drivers. Such
temporary speed humps/bumps shall be marked in bright colors or with reflective
material.
(Ord. 2022-048, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
    
73.001   Generally
   
73.002   Traffic ordinances apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.003   Parking
   
73.004   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.005   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.020   Authority
   
73.021   Definitions
   
73.022   Declaration of public nuisance
   
73.023   Prohibited operation
Skateboards, Bicycles, Roller Skates and the Like
   
73.035   Skateboard ramps and pipes
   
73.036   Use of skateboards
   
73.037   Use of wheeled devices and vehicles in Business Districts
Golf Carts
   
73.050   Definition
   
73.051   Driver regulations
   
73.052   Operation
   
73.053   Registration and inspection
   
73.054   Regulations
   
73.055   Special events
   
73.056   Exemption
Snowmobiles
   
73.070   Compliance required
   
73.071   State law
   
73.072   Hours of operation
   
73.073   Claims against town
   
73.074   Application
   
73.075   Town’s authority
 
   
73.999   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.001 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 74.01) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.002 TRAFFIC ORDINANCES APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this title, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and
except as to those provisions of this title which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 73.003 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. No bicycle shall be parked against or
secured to any fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.004 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 74.04) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 73.005 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 74.05) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.020 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted in I.C. 36-1-
3 and 14-16-1-22.
(Prior Code, § 74.15) (Ord. 144-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 73.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. The same definition as provided in I.C. 14-8-2-185,
including all acts amendatory thereto or in replacement thereof.
   OPERATE. The same definition as provided in I.C. 14-16-1-4, including all
acts amendatory thereto or in replacement thereof.
   OPERATOR. The same definition as provided in I.C. 14-16-1-5, including all
acts amendatory thereto or in replacement thereof.
   OWNER. The same definition as provided in I.C. 14-16-1-6, including all acts
amendatory thereto or in replacement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 74.16) (Ord. 144-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 73.022 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-20, the highway, streets and alleys within
the town do not have sufficient right-of-way to permit the operation of off-
road vehicles on or adjacent to the public ways.
   (B)   The size of residential lots and the proximity of dwellings to one
another in the town are such that the operation of off-road vehicles on private
property within the town is a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 74.17) (Ord. 144-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 73.023 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   An individual shall not operate an off-road vehicle on private property,
public property or public rights-of-way in the town, except under the following
conditions.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer of the town, county or state may authorize
or permit the operation of an off-road vehicle or vehicles on the public
highway, streets and rights-of-way during emergencies.
   (B)   An off-road vehicle or vehicles may be operated during an event for
which permission was specifically granted in advance by the Town Council.
   (C)   An off-road vehicle may be operated directly in the process of loading
or unloading a trailer or truck but is limited to the need for transportation
of the off-road vehicle.
   (D)   The engine of an off-road vehicle may be run for a limited time
(without the vehicle being ridden) for mechanical work, subject to the
limitations of the town’s ordinance for the control of noise.
(Prior Code, § 74.18) (Ord. 144-2003, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
73.999
Cross-reference:
   Noise regulations, see Chapter 96
SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
§ 73.035 SKATEBOARD RAMPS AND PIPES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SKATEBOARD RAMP. All inclined structures designed and principally
intended to permit a person riding on a skateboard to ascend the incline for
jumping, to ascend and descend the incline or to move from side to side on
inclined surfaces. The structures are commonly referred to as ramps or pipes.
   (B)   Construction and location.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to construct, erect, place or maintain a
skateboard ramp on any property within the town, which ramp exceeds six feet in
height.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to construct, erect, place or maintain a
skateboard ramp within the right-of-way or traveled portion of any street, or
on private property within the town within 20 feet of the nearest edge of any
street.
   (C)   Use.
      (1)   In any residential area, it shall be unlawful to charge or to
receive any consideration for the use of a skateboard ramp or to use or operate
a skateboard ramp in any commercial manner.
      (2)   In any residential area in the town, it shall be unlawful to use
any skateboard ramp between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the succeeding
morning.
   (D)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for the parent or
guardian of any child 17 years of age or younger to knowingly permit the child
to violate this section.
   (E)   Effective date. The provisions of this section shall apply to any
skateboard ramp constructed, erected, placed or maintained on or after the
effective date of this section and shall also apply to any skateboard ramp in
existence as of the effective date of this section, although the ramp may have
been erected, placed or maintained prior to the effective date of this section.
In the cases of existing skateboard ramps, the owner of the property upon which
the ramp is located shall have a period of 30 days from the effective date of
this section to either remove the ramp or bring it in compliance with the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 74.30) (Ord. 154-2004, passed 11-11-2004) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.036 USE OF SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   The use of skateboards in all districts of the town zoned for business
or in the streets within or bounding the districts is prohibited.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, DISTRICTS ZONED FOR BUSINESS are
districts which are indicated on the zoning map maintained in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer, with amendments as may from time to time be made to the map.
(Prior Code, § 74.31) (Ord. 167-2008, passed 9-9-2008) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.037 USE OF WHEELED DEVICES AND VEHICLES IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions in division (B) below, the use of bicycles,
roller skates, inline skates, roller blades and motorized vehicles on sidewalks
is prohibited in all districts of the town zoned for business.
   (B)   The following uses are excepted from the prohibition of division (A)
above:
      (1)   Electrically powered wheelchairs and scooters operated by the
disabled or elderly;
      (2)   Construction equipment and service vehicles for which specific
authorization has been granted in advance by the Town Council or an officer
thereof; and/or
      (3)   Parking a bicycle on a sidewalk in front of a place of business
while the rider is inside the place of business.
(Prior Code, § 74.32) (Ord. 167-2008, passed 9-9-2008) Penalty, see §
73.999
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.050 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. As defined in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 74.50) (Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 73.051 DRIVER REGULATIONS.
   Only a licensed driver, age 18 or older, shall be permitted to operate a
golf cart in the town.
(Prior Code, § 74.51) (Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.052 OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated in the town only during permitted hours as
specified herein. From April 1 through October 31, permitted hours shall
include the times from 5:00 a.m. through 11:00 p.m. local time. From November 1
through March 31, permitted hours shall include the times from 5:00 a.m.
through 10:00 p.m. local time.
(Prior Code, § 74.52) (Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 73.053 REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Golf carts shall be registered with the town through the Town Marshal
on or before May 1 annually, or within two business days after purchase, lease
or rental, whichever is earlier. Registration shall expire on April 30 the
following year. At the time of registration, the owner shall present the golf
cart to the Town Marshal for inspection.
   (B)   If the golf cart passes inspection, the owner shall pay a registration
fee to the Clerk-Treasurer of $25, for the initial registration, and $10
annually at each renewal.
   (C)   The owner shall provide proof of insurance/financial responsibility in
an amount not less than the minimum required by state law for motor vehicles,
at which time a registration sticker will be issued. Proof of insurance and the
registration shall be maintained in the golf cart at all times, and the
registration sticker shall be displayed on the front driver side of the golf
cart at all times.
(Prior Code, § 74.53) (Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 73.054 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions and prohibitions of operation.
      (1)   No person shall operate a golf cart on State Road 38 except to
cross said highway in a direct line perpendicular to the north and south edges
of the highway.
      (2)   No person shall operate a golf cart on a sidewalk.
      (3)   No person shall operate a golf cart in Mulberry Centennial Park
except on the drive and parking areas for motor vehicles.
      (4)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any public walking trail.
   (B)   Operation, signage, equipment and passengers.
      (1)   The operator of a golf cart shall observe and obey all rules of
traffic, state laws, federal laws and town ordinances.
      (2)   No person shall operate a golf cart in a reckless or dangerous
manner.
      (3)   A slow-moving vehicle sign shall be affixed to the golf cart and be
plainly visible from the rear during operation.
      (4)   Golf carts shall be equipped with factory seating for all
occupants, with only one person seated in each seat.
      (5)   All persons in the golf cart shall remain seated at all times the
golf cart is operated.
      (6)   Children under the age of three years shall not be permitted to
occupy a golf cart while being operated.
      (7)   Golf carts shall be equipped with headlamps, front and rear turn
signal lamps, tail lamps, stop lamps, brakes and a rear-view mirror.
(Prior Code, § 74.54) (Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.055 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The Town Council may designate special events for the purposes of which golf
carts may be operated in compliance with this subchapter with exceptions.
Exceptions to the provisions of this chapter shall be specified by the Town
Council in its designation of a special event.
(Prior Code, § 74.55) (Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 73.056 EXEMPTION.
   Golf carts operated by employees of the town’s Utilities Department, Street
Department and Police Department and other public safety personnel engaged in
the performance of their official duties are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 74.56) (Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.070 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The operation of snowmobiles on the streets, alleys and rights-of-way in the
town shall be in compliance with all federal, state, county and town laws and
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) (Ord. 90, passed 2-13-1979) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.071 STATE LAW.
   The public is specifically notified by this chapter of the laws of the state
pertaining to snowmobiles and off-road recreational vehicles, which is cited in
I.C. 14-16-1-1 through 14-16-1-33 and 9-18.1-14-1 through 9-18.1-14-11, and all
other amendments to the state code not specifically mentioned herein which
pertain to snowmobiles.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) (Ord. 2022-058, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 73.072 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a snowmobile within the town
limits between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except on the designated
snowmobile routes or for emergency purposes and with the permission of local
authorities.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 90, passed 2-13-1979) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.073 CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN.
   Anyone operating or using a snowmobile on any street, alley or right-of-way
in the town hereby assumes the risk of any accident, damage or injury that may
occur while using the snowmobile on the town street, alley or right-of-way and
by the use thereof hereby waives any and all claims against the town for
damages to property or injuries to persons and to hold the town harmless
thereof in respect to the use of any snowmobiles on any town street, alley or
right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 73.07) (Ord. 90, passed 2-13-1979)
§ 73.074 APPLICATION.
   This chapter pertains only to the use of snowmobiles on the town streets,
alleys or rights-of-way and does not extend to any other unauthorized off-road
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.08) (Ord. 90, passed 2-13-1979)
§ 73.075 TOWN’S AUTHORITY.
   The town does reserve the right to prohibit the use of snowmobiles on any
and all town streets, alleys and rights-of-way or to modify or withdraw this
chapter at any time, particularly the time of an emergency or as a result of
violations of this chapter and the conditions set forth or for any flagrant
disregard of property and personal safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 73.09) (Ord. 90, passed 2-13-1979)
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to the schedule of fees of the
Town Council to be accessed in the Ordinance Violations Bureau, or, if the
aforementioned fee schedule is not applicable, §
10.99.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
73.001 through
73.005 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by impounding of
such person’s bicycle for a period not to exceed 30 days or by any combination
thereof. In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the
person so charged may pay the fine assessed within 14 days to the Town
Ordinance Violations Bureau. Upon conviction of a third or subsequent offense
committed within one year after the date of the first offense, the penalty
shall be a fine of not more than $1,000.
   (C)   (1)   A civil penalty not exceeding $300 shall be imposed upon a
person for violation §§
73.020 through
73.023. In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the
person so charged may pay the fine assessed within 14 days to the Town
Ordinance Violations Bureau. Upon conviction of a third or subsequent offense
committed within one year after the date of the first offense, the penalty
shall be a fine of not more than $1,000.
      (2)   An off-road vehicle used in violation of §§
73.020 through
73.023 shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pending adjudication and
payment of all civil penalties and court costs; and the property rights of the
owner of the off-road vehicle shall be subject to disposition of the off-road
vehicle by sale or otherwise, as the court may order.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
73.035 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continuous. In lieu of appearing before a court of
competent jurisdiction, the person so charged may pay the fine assessed within
14 days to the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau. Upon conviction of a third or
subsequent offense committed within one year after the date of the first
offense, the penalty shall be a fine of not more than $1,000.
   (E)   (1)   For each violation of §§
73.036 or
73.037, a civil penalty shall be imposed as follows:
         (a)   Fifty dollars for the first violation;
         (b)   One hundred dollars for the second violation; and
         (c)   A penalty not to exceed $500 for each subsequent violation.
      (2)   Persons 18 years of age and older who violate §§
73.035 through
73.037 shall be liable for the penalty for the violation. The parents, legal
guardian or persons standing in loco parentis to persons under 18 years of age
who violate §§
73.035 through
73.037 shall be jointly and severally liable for the penalty for the violation.
In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the person so
charged may pay the fine assessed within 14 days to the Ordinance Violations
Bureau.
      (3)   The penalties prescribed herein shall be in addition to any and all
other criminal penalties and civil liabilities for damages which may also apply
to acts in violation of §§
73.035 through
73.037.
      (4)   Police officers of the town are authorized to issue complaints and
summonses for violations of §§ 73.031 through 73.033 using the uniform traffic
ticket prescribed in I.C. 9-30-3-6, including any amendments or replacements of
the statute.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of §§
73.050 through
73.056 shall, upon a first finding of such violation, be subject to a fine not
to exceed $50, and upon a second finding of such violation, be subject to a
fine not to exceed $100. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense and
be subject to a separate fine. If a person accumulates two or more violations
within a calendar year, the person’s golf cart registration shall be suspended.
In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the person so
charged may pay the fine assessed within 14 days to the Town Ordinance
Violations Bureau. Upon conviction of a third or subsequent offense committed
within one year after the date of the first offense, the penalty shall be a
fine of not more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 74.99)
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
73.070 through
73.075 is guilty of a criminal misdemeanor or an infraction as provided in I.C.
14-16-1-29, 9-18.1-14-2, 9-18.1-14-5, 9-18.1-14-10 and 9-18.1-14-11 and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500. Furthermore, any violation of
state code as hereinabove referenced may be prosecuted under the appropriate
provisions of state code.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
(Ord. 223-2018, passed 8-14-2018; Ord. 2022-051, passed 10-17-2022; Ord. 2022-
058, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 74: EMERGENCY TRAVEL
Section
   
74.01   Title
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Level 3 hazardous travel watch; advisory
   
74.04   Level 2 hazardous transportation warning; essential travel permitted
   
74.05   Level 1 hazardous transportation emergency; travel prohibited
   
74.06   Prohibited parking
   
74.07   Stalled vehicles
   
74.08   Removal, impounding and return of vehicle
   
74.09   Citation
   
74.10   Evidence of violation
   
74.11   Utility companies
   
74.12   Declaration of Commissioners
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 TITLE.
   The title of this chapter shall be the “Emergency Travel Ordinance of the
Town of Mulberry.”
(Prior Code, § 75.01) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
§ 74.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
   ROADWAY. A publicly maintained right-of-way open for the use of the public
for vehicular travel in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Prior Code, § 75.02) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
§ 74.03 LEVEL 3 HAZARDOUS TRAVEL WATCH; ADVISORY.
   (A)   The Sheriff, the Highway Department Superintendent and the Emergency
Management Agency Director or their respective designees may issue a Level 3
hazardous travel watch for all or parts of roadways if they agree that current
or expected conditions, including without limitation, the presence of fires,
floods, utility failures, major accidents, public health emergencies,
thunderstorms, acts of terrorism, tornadoes and snow storms, ice, freezing
rain, sleet, high water or debris make travel by motor vehicle hazardous.
   (B)   Upon issuance of a watch under this section, the Sheriff,
Superintendent and Director shall cause the watch to be broadcast by means of
radio stations broadcasting in the county. The watches may also be communicated
by means of newspapers or other means the officials deem effective.
   (C)   The officials shall terminate the watch when the conditions giving
rise to the watch terminate. Termination of the watch shall be communicated by
the means used to communicate the original watch.
   (D)   A watch under this section is advisory and does not regulate or
restrict travel on the roadways; however, schools and businesses may begin to
implement their emergency action plans.
   (E)   A person should not park his or her vehicle on roadways including
subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 75.03) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 LEVEL 2 HAZARDOUS TRANSPORTATION WARNING; ESSENTIAL TRAVEL PERMITTED.
   (A)   The Commissioners may declare a Level 2 hazardous transportation
warning for some or all roadways when, in their judgment, current or expected
conditions, including without limitation, the presence of fires, floods,
utility failures, major accidents, public health emergencies, thunderstorms,
acts of terrorism, tornadoes and snow storms, ice, freezing rain, sleet, high
water or debris, constitute a significant risk of injury or damage to persons
or property or travel may be significantly delayed.
   (B)   By way of example, the conditions may include:
      (1)   Roadways which have or are expected to have significant
accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet or snow;
      (2)   Roadways which have or are expected to have blowing or drifting
snow or high water covering large areas of the roadways to a dangerous depth;
      (3)   There are numerous trees, limbs, utility poles and/or power lines
or other damage debris on the roadways; and
      (4)   Roadways or major sections of the roadway network are closed or
impassible.
   (C)   In the event a Level 2 hazardous transportation warning is designated,
only essential travel is permitted. Non-essential travel is prohibited. For the
purpose of this chapter, ESSENTIAL TRAVEL includes the following:
      (1)   Travel to and from work;
      (2)   Travel to and from school by students, if open, and administrative
and support staff;
      (3)   Travel to obtain necessary medical care or required prescription
medications;
      (4)   Travel to obtain essential supplies of food or fuel;
      (5)   Travel to seek shelter; and
      (6)   Travel of emergency vehicles and emergency workers engaged in
emergency operations.
   (D)   Parking is prohibited pursuant to §
74.06.
(Prior Code, § 75.04) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 LEVEL 1 HAZARDOUS TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY; TRAVEL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Commissioners may declare a Level 1 hazardous transportation
emergency for some or all roadways when, in their judgment, current or expected
conditions, including, without limitation, the presence of fires, floods,
utility failures, major accidents, public health emergencies, thunderstorms,
acts of terrorism, tornadoes and snow storms, ice, freezing rain, sleet, high
water or debris, constitute a crippling emergency event causing a significant
risk of injury or death to motorists, roadway maintenance, emergency or
critical operations personnel.
   (B)   By way of example, the conditions may include:
      (1)   Roadways which have or are expected to have heavy accumulations of
ice, freezing rain, sleet or snow; roadways which have or are expected to have
heavy blowing or drifting of snow or blizzard conditions;
      (2)   Very high water covers or closes large areas of roadways;
      (3)   Washouts of large areas of road surfaces, road beds, culverts,
bridge approaches or bridges;
      (4)   Widespread presence of trees, limbs, utility poles, power lines
and/or other damage debris on the roadways;
      (5)   Major portions of the roadway network are closed or impassable; and
      (6)   Conditions which make safe operation of roadway maintenance
equipment impossible.
   (C)   (1)   In the event a Level 1 hazardous transportation emergency is
declared, travel is prohibited and the roadways are closed, except as to
emergency personnel and critical occupations personnel while engaged in
necessary emergency or critical occupations operations.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CRITICAL OCCUPATIONS PERSONNEL. Includes, but is not limited to,
employees of railroad companies, utility companies, highway departments, towing
and wrecker services, fuel delivery suppliers, news media, hospital and
healthcare organizations or those assisting to mitigate the condition/
situation.
         EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Includes, but is not limited to, rostered members
of law enforcement agencies, fire departments, emergency medical service
providers, search and rescue organizations, rescue squads, military
organizations, disaster relief organizations, emergency management personnel
and requested mutual aid personnel.
   (D)   Parking is prohibited pursuant to §
74.06.
(Prior Code, § 75.05) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Upon declaration of a Level 2 hazardous transportation warning
or a Level 1 hazardous transportation emergency, a parking prohibition shall go
into effect for the roadways covered by the declaration.
      (2)   The Commissioners may also declare a parking prohibition for some
or all roadways if they deem it necessary for snow plowing, debris removal,
access for emergency vehicles, evacuation or other emergency purposes.
      (3)   The prohibition remains in effect until the Level 2 hazardous
transportation warning or a Level 1 hazardous transportation emergency is
terminated by the Commissioners.
   (B)   While a parking prohibition is in effect, a person may not park his or
her vehicle or a vehicle under his or her control or allow a vehicle to remain
parked on a roadway for which the prohibition is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 75.06) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 STALLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   If a vehicle becomes stalled on a roadway for which a parking
prohibition is in effect, the person operating the vehicle must take immediate
action to have the vehicle removed from the roadway.
   (B)   The person may not abandon the vehicle in the roadway, except for the
purpose of securing assistance for the time necessary to go to a nearby
telephone, garage or other place of assistance and return without delay.
(Prior Code, § 75.07) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING AND RETURN OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   An employee of the Sheriff’s office or the Highway Department may
remove a vehicle or have it removed from a roadway to the nearest garage or
other place of safety, including another place on the roadway, or to a facility
maintained by the county if one of the following apply:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a roadway for which a parking prohibition
is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a roadway for which a parking prohibition
is in effect; the vehicle presents a hazard to traffic, snow or debris removal
or emergency operations; and the available evidence does not reasonably suggest
that the operator of the vehicle is attempting to remove it in compliance with
§
74.06; and/or
      (3)   The vehicle is parked illegally and interferes with snow or debris
removal or emergency operations.
   (B)   If a vehicle is removed under division (A) above, the Department
causing the removal of the vehicle shall provide written notice to the
vehicle’s owner if the Department is able to ascertain the name and the address
of the vehicle’s owner through registration records or otherwise. The notice
shall advise the owner of the fact of removal, the reason for removal and the
place to which the vehicle was removed.
   (C)   If the removing Department is unable to ascertain the name and address
of the vehicle’s owner to provide notice under division (B) above, the
Department shall, within three days of the removal, mail a written report to
the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The report shall also be filed with the
garage to which the vehicle has been removed, if any. The report shall include
a description of the vehicle, the time and place of removal, the reasons for
the removal and the place to which the vehicle was removed.
   (D)   To recover a vehicle removed under this chapter, the owner of the
vehicle must present evidence of the person’s identity and right to possession
of the vehicle to the removing Department or the towing service that removed
the vehicle. In addition, the person must sign a receipt for the return of the
vehicle and pay the costs of removal and any storage fees. The costs and fees
constitute a lien on the vehicle under I.C. 32-33-10.
   (E)   The removing Department shall maintain a record of each vehicle
removed under this section. The record must include a description of the
vehicle, its license number, the date and time of removal, the place of
removal, the place to which it was removed, the reason for removal and, if
known, the name and address of the owner and/or operator. If a towing service
obtains this information on behalf of the removing Department, the towing
service shall provide the record to the Sheriff’s office.
   (F)   To implement this section, the Sheriff’s office and the Highway
Department may enter into contracts with towing services for the removal and
storage of vehicles.
   (G)   The county, Sheriff’s office, Highway Department, owner or occupant of
the property from which a vehicle is removed, authorized towing service,
automobile scrap yard or other contractor are not liable for loss or damage to
a motor vehicle removed, stored or disposed of under this section.
(Prior Code, § 75.08) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
§ 74.09 CITATION.
   If a motor vehicle is parked or left without a driver in violation of this
chapter and is not removed or impounded under this chapter, an officer of the
Sheriff’s office may issue a traffic summons to the registered owner in the
manner and under the same procedures applicable to other parking violations.
(Prior Code, § 75.09) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
§ 74.10 EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION.
   In a prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in violation of
this chapter, proof that the vehicle described in the complaint was parked or
left in violation of this chapter together with proof that the defendant named
in the complaint was the registered owner of the vehicle at the time of the
violation shall constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the
person who parked the vehicle in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.10) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
§ 74.11 UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   If employees of the County Sheriff’s office or Highway Department
determine that the properties of a utility company are obstructing, interfering
or about to obstruct or interfere with roadway travel, snow or debris removal
or emergency operations, the Department that makes the determination shall
notify the utility company of the obstruction or interference. Upon
notification, the utility company shall act immediately to render the property
safe and remove the obstruction or interference.
   (B)   The action should include:
      (1)   Timely dispatch of a knowledgeable employee to the site;
      (2)   De-energize or otherwise render the property safe for removal from
the roadway; and/or
      (3)   Report to the Sheriff’s Office or Highway Department when the
property is rendered safe for removal and coordinate removal of the property
from the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 75.11) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
§ 74.12 DECLARATION OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   (1)   In making its determination to declare a Level 2 hazardous
transportation warning or a Level 1 hazardous transportation emergency under §§
74.04 and
74.05, the Board of Commissioners shall consider information and
recommendations, to the extent available, provided by the Sheriff, the
Superintendent of the Highway Department, the Director of the Emergency
Management Agency or their respective designees.
      (2)   The declaration may be upgraded, downgraded, extended or terminated
by the Commissioners as the situation requires.
   (B)   Upon issuance of a declaration under this section, the Board of
Commissioners shall cause the declaration to be broadcast by means of radio
stations broadcasting in the county. The declaration may also be communicated
by means of newspapers or other means the Board of Commissioners deems
effective.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall terminate the declaration when the
conditions giving rise to the declaration abate. Termination of the declaration
shall be communicated by the means used to communicate the original
declaration.
(Prior Code, § 75.12) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter for which no specific penalty is otherwise
provided shall be governed by the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates §
74.08 commits a Class C infraction.
      (2)   The fine for a first offense under §
74.08 is a fine of $50. Subsequent fines shall be not less than $100 and not
more than $2,500. Violators may be prosecuted by any court in the county with
jurisdiction over traffic offenses.
(Prior Code, § 75.99) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Parking restricted in alley
   
75.02   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
75.03   Obedience to parking signs or markings
   
75.04   Truck and bus parking restricted
   
75.05   Standing or parking prohibited at alleys
   
75.06   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in a lane of traffic
   
75.07   Parking; obstructing traffic; removal of vehicle
   
75.08   Yellow curbs
   
75.09   Generally
   
75.10   Parking on private property
Stopping for Loading or Unloading
   
75.25   Designated zones; time limit
   
75.26   Town Council to designate bus stops and taxi stands
   
75.27   Stopping, standing and parking of buses regulated
   
75.28   Restricted use of bus stops and taxi stands
Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
75.40   Application
   
75.41   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
75.42   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
75.43   Truck parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
Administration
   
75.55   Citation of illegally parked vehicle
   
75.56   Failure to comply with traffic citation attached to parking vehicle
   
75.57   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
 
   
75.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 PARKING RESTRICTED IN ALLEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store any items, including, but not
limited to, construction materials, vehicles, tangible personal property,
tools, trailers and the like in an alley without first obtaining permission of
the Town Council. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop,
stand or park such vehicle in any alley for any period longer than is necessary
for the loading or unloading of passengers or freight.
(Prior Code, § 76.01) (Ord. 2022-055, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.02 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of
displaying such vehicle for sale, greasing or repairing such vehicle except
repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 76.02) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 OBEDIENCE TO PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   In those locations that have been officially signed or marked for parking on
the streets or in municipal parking lots, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than within any markings and at the orientation indicated by such
signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 76.03) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 TRUCK AND BUS PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Residential District. No person owning, leasing, possessing or
operating a truck, trailer, bus or tractor or tractor and trailer, taller,
wider and longer than a conventional station wagon, pickup truck or van shall
be permitted to park the same upon any street within the Residential District
of the corporate limits of the town longer than 72 hours; provided, that such
parking does not interrupt the regular flow of traffic and does not create a
hazard for the safety of others and that such parking complies with all other
parking regulations in force in the town. This section shall not apply to
school buses for the Clinton Prairie School District.
   (B)   Business District. In the Business District, no truck, bus or
recreational vehicle taller, wider and longer than a conventional station wagon
or pickup truck shall park upon any street or alley within the corporate limits
of the town longer than 72 hours; provided, that such parking does not
interrupt the regular flow of traffic and does not create a hazard for the
safety of others and that such parking complies with all other parking
regulations in force in the town.
(Prior Code, § 76.04) (Ord. 2022-055, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALLEYS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on a street in any manner
which would restrict full access to any alley.
(Prior Code, § 76.05) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN A LANE OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle so as to block any portion of
a lane of traffic not designed for parking unless directed to do so by an
official traffic-control device or when waiting to enter a parking space.
(Prior Code, § 76.06) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07 PARKING; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC; REMOVAL OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of any provision of this chapter, such officer is hereby authorized
to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to remove the
same to a position off of the main traveled part of the street; provided, that
if any person so directed shall fail or refuse to move the vehicle or if such
vehicle is unattended then such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the
removal of such vehicle to the nearest available garage or other place of
safety. The vehicle’s owner shall pay for such towing.
(Prior Code, § 76.07) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.08 YELLOW CURBS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to designate no parking areas with
yellow paint and/or signs.
   (B)   The painting of a curb or area with yellow paint shall constitute
notice to the public that parking is prohibited. No person shall park or stand
a vehicle adjacent to any such yellow line when it is visible.
(Prior Code, § 76.08) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.09 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Parking on sidewalks, lawns or greenspace.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle, trailers, boats,
motorcycles, mowers or other yard equipment, farm machinery or any part of the
aforementioned, to park on any greenspace, yards, grassy areas, unpaved areas
or sidewalks in town.
      (2)   No person shall park any motor vehicles on any portion of any lawn
or greenspace located within the town’s corporate limits, with the exception of
the horseshoe area of the park and along the east side of South Madison Street
between Jefferson Road and Second Street along the park. Parking in residential
areas shall be on driveways or areas of approved parking areas. Approved
parking areas shall include concrete, blacktop, gravel (free from grass and
weeds) with a hard base.
      (3)   There shall be an exception that parking on any portion of a lot,
lawn or greenspace in a Residential District for the purpose of loading or
unloading or washing the motor vehicle. The motor vehicle shall not remain on
the lot, lawn or greenspace for any amount of time greater than that reasonably
necessary to accomplish the task.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles in Residential Districts prohibited. The driver of
any commercial vehicles, including trucks or tractors with a registered gross
weight in excess of 21,000 pounds, or any semi-tractor or trailer, is
prohibited from parking the vehicle upon or next to a public sheet or
greenspace in a Residential District of the town, except in an emergency or
temporarily during those times as the vehicle is being loaded or unloaded, with
such time to be a maximum of 30 minutes.
   (C)   Parking vehicles facing oncoming traffic. It shall be unlawful to park
any motor vehicle or other vehicle along the side of any street so that the
vehicle faces oncoming traffic from the nearest lane of travel.
   (D)   Violations. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of
the provisions of this section, upon the determination of any police officer of
the Town Police Department, or other law enforcement agency, or if the vehicle
impedes the orderly flow of traffic or constitutes a traffic hazard or a public
nuisance, shall be subject to the vehicle being towed away at the owner’s
expense.
(Prior Code, § 76.09) (Ord. 241-2021, passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.10 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unauthorized parking prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to park any motor vehicle, house trailer, one-, two- or three-wheeled trailer,
tractor trailer or any other type of motorized or non-motorized conveyance
ordinarily pulled or attached to a motor vehicle on any private property,
private road, driveway or parking lot, without a proper and current
registration plate meeting state and local requirements. All tires must be in
operable condition.
   (B)   Presumption that the owner parked vehicle. In any proceeding for the
violation of any of the provisions of these parking regulations, the
registration plate displayed and/or VIN on the motor vehicle, trailers and/or
campers shall constitute evidence of a prima-facie presumption that the owner
of the motor vehicle was the person who parked or placed the motor vehicle at
the place where the violation occurred.
(Ord. 241-2021, passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
75.99
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING
§ 75.25 DESIGNATED ZONES; TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   (1)   No parking spaces shall be reserved for the use of a particular
person, except for handicap parking or the parking of members of a business,
restaurant, firm, corporation, official, employee or other legal entity.
However, the Town Council shall have the power to reserve a parking space or
spaces for loading and unloading.
      (2)   The Town Council shall also have the power to designate and
reserve, from time to time, whether in areas posted with parking meters or
otherwise, loading and unloading spaces for trucks for the loading and
unloading of articles of intra- and inter-city commerce.
   (B)   (1)   The parking time limit in loading and unloading zones shall not
exceed 30 minutes. The Town Council may designate from time to time such
loading and unloading zones by erecting or causing to be erected proper and
suitable signs and warnings.
      (2)   Such signs and warnings shall maintain the proper flow and safety
of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian, shall maintain a fair apportionment
of the time for loading and unloading trucks therein, shall maintain a
convenient location therefore from the standpoint of all such traffic and shall
maintain an equitable apportionment of loading and unloading distance among the
trucks involved.
   (C)   There shall be not more than one truck loading and unloading zone on
any side of any street within any block of the town.
(Ord. 241-2021, passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.26 TOWN COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE BUS STOPS AND TAXI STANDS.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to establish bus stops and taxi stands
on such public streets, in such places and in such numbers as they shall
determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and
every such bus stop or taxi stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 76.22) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.27 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF BUSES REGULATED.
   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in such a
manner that the bus, when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage,
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the vehicle not farther
than 18 inches from the curb and so as not to duly impede the movement of other
vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 76.23) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.28 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS STOPS AND TAXI STANDS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop or a
vehicle other than a taxi in a taxi stand when any such stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed.
(Prior Code, § 76.24) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 75.40 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking
of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with ether traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking
shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 76.35) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.41 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   The Town Council shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and mark or sign such streets. Such angle parking shall not be
indicated upon any state highway within this town.
(Prior Code, § 76.36) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.42 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
longer than the time specified during the times and days specified, if any,
within the district or upon any of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 76.37) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.43 TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a truck,
trailer, tractor or tractor and trailer, taller, wider and longer than a
conventional station wagon or pickup truck during the hours and days specified,
within the districts or upon any of the streets as determined by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 76.38) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980) Penalty, see §
75.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 75.55 CITATION OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked, standing or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of the
town or by state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number, take any other information displayed on the vehicle which
may identify its user and conspicuously affix to such vehicle a traffic
citation, on a form provided by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, for the driver to
answer to the charge against him or her within five days, during the hours and
at a place specified in the citation.
(Prior Code, § 76.50) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.56 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATION ATTACHED TO PARKING VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the
traffic laws does not appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to such
motor vehicle within a period of five days, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall send
to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a
letter informing him or her of the violation and warning him or her that in the
event such letter is disregarded for a period of 14 days a warrant of arrest
will be issued.
(Prior Code, § 76.51) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.57 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law governing the standing or
parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the
complaint was parked in violation of any such law together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of such parking, the
registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked
or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such
violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § 76.52) (Ord. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A minimum penalty of $2 will be assessed for violation of §
75.09 and must be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town within 48 hours of
the time of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 76.99) (Ord. 88, passed - -)
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Turn signs
      
III.   One-way streets and alleys
      
IV.   Stop intersections
      
V.   Yield streets
      
VI.   Load restrictions upon vehicles using certain highways
      
VII.   Weight restrictions
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It is hereby determined, upon the basis of a traffic engineering
investigation, that the speed permitted by state law on the following streets
or portion thereof is different than is reasonable and safe under the
conditions found to exist upon such segments. It is hereby declared that the
maximum speed limit on these segments herein designated shall be as herein
stated, which speeds shall be effective at the times specified when signs are
erected giving notice.
Street Location Speed Limit When Applicable Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Location        Speed Limit When Applicable Ord. No. Date Passed
              In the Business 20 mph                     2        3-9-1948
               District
               In the
              Residential     30 mph                     2        3-9-1948
               District
               First alley
               north of
               Jackson Street
              between Main    8 mph                      45       2-9-1960
               Street and
               North Glick
               Street
               One-half block
1st Street     west of Glick   15 mph      When children            12-9-1980
               Street to Main              present
               Street
               One-half block
               of Glick Street             When children
2nd Street     to one-half     15 mph      present                  12-9-1980
               block east of
               Main Street
               From Woodruff
Gasline Street Street West to  25 mph      At all times    184-2012 6-12-2012
               Park Street
               Jackson Highway
Glick Street   to one-half     15 mph      When children            12-9-1980
               block south of              present
               2nd Street
               Main Street to
Jefferson Road one-half block  15 mph      When children            12-9-1980
               south of 2nd                present
               Street
               From Gasline
Madison Street Street South to 25 mph      At all times    184-2012 6-12-2012
               Fourth Street
               Jefferson Road
Main Street    to one-half     15 mph      When children            12-9-1980
               block south of              present
               2nd Street
Park Drive     South of        10 mph      At all times             12-9-1980
               Gasline Road
Park Street    South of        10 mph      At all times             12-9-1980
               Gasline Road
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TURN SIGNS.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall
place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of certain days and permitted at other hours,
in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs. The restricted
maneuvers are as follows:
 
Street    Direction  Cross Street Restricted When         Ord. No. Date Passed
                                  Maneuver   Restricted
Glick     Southbound Jefferson    Left turn  At all times -        12-9-1980
Street               Road
Jefferson Northbound Glick Street Left turn  At all times -        12-9-1980
Road
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The following streets or alley segments shall be designated as one-way:
 
Street or Alley                        Location Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
East-west alley just north of Jackson
Highway, between Glick Street and Main         Eastbound -        12-9-1980
Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. III) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Stop Direction Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Stop          Direction     Location        Ord. No. Date Passed
                                           Alley lying at
              Stop          Eastbound     the south end   60       7-13-1971
                                           of West Street
               Stop          Eastbound     At Cross Street 175-2010 1-12-2010
               Stop                       Crossing Elm             12-9-1980
                                           Street
1st Street     Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Greeley Street
               Stop                       Crossing Main            12-9-1980
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing Glick           12-9-1980
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jefferson Road
2nd Street     Stop                       Crossing        164-2008 6-17-2008
                                           Madison Street
                                           Intersection
               4-way                      with Jefferson  35       9-10-1957
                                           Road
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jefferson Road
               Stop                       Crossing Main            12-9-1980
                                           Street
3rd Street     Stop                       Crossing        164-2008 6-17-2008
                                           Madison Street
                                           Intersection
               Multiway stop              with Funk       2001-130 8-14-2001
                                           Street
                                           Intersection
4th Street     Multiway stop              with Short      2001-130 8-14-2001
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
Brandon Street                             Crossing
               Stop                       Wyandotte                12-9-1980
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
Clinton Street                             Gasline Road
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
               Stop          Southbound    Crossing 2nd    156-2005 1-11-2005
                                           Street
               Stop          Southbound                   60       7-13-1971
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
Elm Street                                 Intersection
               Multiway stop              with Perrin              12-9-1980
                                           Street
                                           Intersection
               4-way                      with Perrin     36       4-8-1958
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jefferson Road
Funk Street                                Intersection
               4-way                      with Jefferson  35       9-10-1957
                                           Road
               Multiway stop              At Park Street  146-2003 12-9-2003
Gasline Road   Stop          North and     Intersection of 22       - -
                             south         Clinton Street
                                           Intersection
               Multiway stop              with Jackson             12-9-1980
                                           Highway
Glick Street                               Intersection
               Multiway stop              with Yundt               12-9-1980
                                           Street
               Multiway stop              Intersection             12-9-1980
                                           with 1st Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
               Stop                       Crossing Perrin          12-9-1980
Greenly Street                             Street
                                           Intersection
               4-way                      with Perrin     36       4-8-1958
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
Hobson Street                              Crossing
               Stop                       Wyandotte                12-9-1980
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
Indiana Street                             Gasline Road
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
                                           Intersection
Jefferson Road Multiway stop              with Main                12-9-1980
                                           Street
Madison Street Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
                                           Intersection
Main Street    Stop                       with Jefferson  60       7-13-1971
                                           Road
               Stop          East and west Intersection    22       - -
                                           with 2nd Street
North Glick                                Intersection
Street         4-way                      with West Yundt 35       9-10-1957
                                           Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
Park Street                                Jackson Highway
               Multiway stop              At Gasline Road 146-2003 12-9-2003
               Stop                       Crossing Glick           12-9-1980
                                           Street
                                           Intersection
Perrin Street  Stop                       with Willard    60       7-13-1971
                                           Street
                                           Intersection
               Multiway stop              with Willard             12-9-1980
                                           Street
Short Street   Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jefferson Road
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
                                           Crossing
West Street    Stop                       Wyandotte                12-9-1980
                                           Street
                                           Intersection
               Multiway stop              with West       158-2006 4-11-2006
                                           Street
West Yundt                                 Intersection
Street         4-way                      with North      35       9-10-1957
                                           Glick Street
               Stop                       Crossing                 12-9-1980
                                           Jackson Highway
               Stop                       Crossing Perrin          12-9-1980
                                           Street
Willard Street                             Crossing
               Stop                       Wyandotte                12-9-1980
                                           Street
                                           Intersection
               Stop                       with Perrin     60       7-13-1971
                                           Street
Wyandotte                                  Intersection
Street         Multiway stop              with West       158-2006 4-11-2006
                                           Street
Yundt Street   Stop          East and west Crossing        215-2017 1-10-2017
                                           Greeley Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. IV) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. YIELD STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, these streets at the following
intersections shall be yield streets. Drivers of all vehicles on these streets
shall yield the right-of-way, as required by state law before entering the
described intersection.
Yield Street Direction Cross Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Yield Street     Direction  Cross Street     Ord. No. Date Passed
1st Street                 Clinton Street            12-9-1980
2nd Street                 Clinton Street            12-9-1980
                           Madison Street            12-9-1980
3rd Street                 Clinton Street            12-9-1980
                           Madison Street            12-9-1980
4th Street                 Jefferson Road            12-9-1980
Bryan Street     Westbound  Glick Street              12-9-1980
                           Main Street               12-9-1980
Center Street              Clinton Street            12-9-1980
                           Park Street               12-9-1980
Clinton Street             Jefferson Road            12-9-1980
Doty Street                Main Street               12-9-1980
Elm Street                 2nd Street                12-9-1980
Funk Street                2nd Street                12-9-1980
                           3rd Street                12-9-1980
Gasline Road               Main Street               12-9-1980
Glick Street               Jefferson Street 2022-065 10-17-2022
Greeley Street             Yundt Street              12-9-1980
                 Southbound 2nd Street                12-9-1980
Hobson Street              1st Street                12-9-1980
                           Perrin Street             12-9-1980
Indiana Street             2nd Street                12-9-1980
Jefferson Road             Glick Street              12-9-1980
Madison Street             Center Street             12-9-1980
                          Gasline Road              12-9-1980
Park Drive                 Gasline Road              12-9-1980
Park Street                Gasline Road              12-9-1980
Perrin Street              Jefferson Road            12-9-1980
Wyandotte Street           Elm Street                12-9-1980
Yundt Street               Main Street               12-9-1980
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. V) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. LOAD RESTRICTIONS UPON VEHICLES USING CERTAIN HIGHWAYS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified at any time upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described as follows:
 
Street        Location                  Gross Weight Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
2nd Street    Jefferson Road to Madison 5 tons             -        12-9-1980
              Street
4th Street    Jefferson Road to Madison 5 tons             -        12-9-1980
              Street
Funk Street   2nd Street to 4th Street  5 tons             -        12-9-1980
              One-half block east of
Gasline Road  Park Street to            5 tons             -        12-9-1980
              corporation limits
Hobson Street 1st Street to Wyandotte   5 tons             -        12-9-1980
              Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. VI) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
Street Location Weight Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location                  Weight Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
3rd Street         From South Main Street to 5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   South Clinton Street
Clinton Street     From State Highway 38 to  5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   Jefferson Road
Elm Street         From State Highway 38 to  5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   South Glick Street
Funk Street        From 2nd Street South to  5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   the end of Funk Street
Hobson Street      From State Highway 38 to  5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   Perrin Street
Madison Street     From State Highway 38 to  5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   Gasline Road
North Glick Street From State Highway 38 to  5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   Doty Street
Park Street        From State Highway 38 to  5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   Gasline Road
Perrin Street      From West Street to South 5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   Glick Street
                   From North Main Street to
Yundt Street       Elm Street from Wyandotte 5 tons       38       2-10-1959
                   Road to 2nd Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. VII) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 77: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle, during the hours and days specified, within the district or upon any
of the streets described as follows:
Street Location Side Prohibition Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location          Side  Prohibition       Ord. No. Date Passed
                                         No parking of any
                                         motor vehicle,
East Gas Line                            trailer, boat,
Road and South   Within 30 feet    North motorcycle, mower 2022-047 10-17-2022
Indiana Street   from the corner         or other yard
                                         equipment, farm
                                         machinery, or any
                                         part thereof
                 South side of
                 east-west alley
                 located just
                north of Jackson                                 12-9-1980
                 Highway, between
                 Glick and Main
                 Streets
                                         No parking within
                Fire stations          50 feet of the    17       6-13-1950
                                         front entrances
                 Immediately south
Glick Street     of alley to       West  At all times               12-9-1980
                 Perrin Street
                                         Parking
                 Triangular              prohibited except
Glick Street and parking area in        by persons doing  227-2018 9-11-2018
Jefferson Street front of Town           business in the
                 Hall                    Town Hall, 9:00
                                         a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                 Main Street to
Jackson Highway  one-sixth block   Both  At all times               12-9-1980
                 west of Main
                 Street
                 One-fourth block
                 east of Glick
                Street to one-    Both  At all times               12-9-1980
                 third block west
                 of Glick Street
                 From Main Street
Jackson Street   West to the       North 30-minute limit   129-2000 7-11-2000
                 nearest alley
                 From the south
                 corner of Public
                 Service Company
                 of Indiana, Inc.
Jefferson Road   Transformer       East  No angle or       47       4-11-1961
                 Building to the         parallel parking
                 alley immediately
                 north of Kentland
                 Dairy Products
                 Company
                 In front of the
Main Street      premises at 114   West  15-minute limit   84       4-8-1986
                 Main Street
                 Glick Street to
Perrin Street    one-half block    North At all times               12-9-1980
                 west of Glick
                 Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 78, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNLICENSED VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND BOATS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal Shelter
   
90.03   Humane Officer; powers
   
90.04   Redemption and disposition of impounded animals
   
90.05   Motor vehicles
   
90.06   Care of animals; barking dogs
   
90.07   Notice to owner
   
90.08   Procedures for dangerous animals
   
90.09   Enforcement
   
90.10   Maximum number of animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any dog, cat or other domesticated animal.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility operated and maintained by the Humane Society
for humane restraining and impounding of animals seized under the authority of
this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Elsewhere than premises under the ownership, control or possession
of the owner and either:
      (1)   Not restrained by a leash; or
      (2)   Not under the immediate and complete physical control of a person
capable of controlling the animal.
   CAT. Any domestic member of the feline family of animals.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which:
         (a)   Has attacked or bitten another animal while off the property of
its owner, its owner’s agent or its keeper;
         (b)   Has attacked, attempted to attack, bitten or seriously injured
any human being, without provocation, whether on or off the property of its
owner, its owner’s agent or its keeper;
         (c)   Has a history, documented with a public agency or its designee,
of attacking or biting any humans or domestic animals;
         (d)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to
cause injury or to otherwise threaten or endanger the safety of humans or
domestic animals;
         (e)   Has been found to be at large and has been documented to be at
large by the Humane Officer on three or more separate occasions in a 12-month
period; or
         (f)   Has been determined to be an American pit bull terrier.
      (2)   No animal, except an American pit bull terrier, shall be considered
a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if the animal causes injury or damage to a person while that
person is:
         (a)   Committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense against
the owner or agent of the owner;
         (b)   Committing a criminal trespass upon the premises occupied by the
owner, agent or keeper of the animal; or
         (c)   Teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal.
      (3)   No K-9 patrol dogs or police dogs owned or kept by a law
enforcement agency shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL when used in the line
of duty or for law enforcement purposes.
   DOG. Any domestic member of the canine family of animals.
   EMOTIONAL SUPPORT OR COMPANION ANIMAL. Pursuant to I.C. 22-9-7-6, an animal
that a health service provider has determined provides a benefit for an
individual with a disability, which may include improving at least one symptom
of the disability.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. The situation that exists when an animal has been bitten
by or otherwise has been in contact with any other animal known to be, or
reasonably suspected of being, infected with rabies.
   HUMANE OFFICER. The officer to whom authority is delegated by the Town
Council to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The OFFICER shall be an
employee of the Humane Society.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. The Humane Society of Clinton County, Inc., a not-for-profit
corporation organized under the laws of the state, with its principal office at
Frankfort, Indiana.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning or having the care, possession
or control of any animal.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 35.104 and I.C. 16-32-3-1.5, any dog
that is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an
individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric,
intellectual or other mental disability. Other species of animals, whether wild
or domestic, trained or untrained, are not SERVICE ANIMALS for the purposes of
this definition. The work or tasks performed by a SERVICE ANIMAL must be
directly related to the individual’s disability. Examples of work or tasks
include, but are not limited to, assisting the individuals who are blind or
have low vision with navigation and other tasks, alerting individuals who are
deaf or hard of hearing to the presence of people or sounds, providing non-
violent protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair, assisting an
individual during a seizure, alerting individuals to the presence of allergens,
retrieving items such as medicine or the telephone, providing physical support
and assistance with balance and stability to individuals with mobility
disabilities and helping persons with psychiatric and neurological disabilities
by preventing or interrupting impulsive or destructive behaviors. The crime
deterrent effects of animal’s presence and the provision of emotional support,
well-being, comfort or companionship do not constitute work or tasks for the
purposes of this definition. This definition provides for animals trained as
hearing animals, guide animals, assistance animals, seizure alert animals,
mobility animals, psychiatric service animals and autism service animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-179, passed
10-26-2010; Ord. 2022-059, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (A)   The Animal Shelter shall be operated and maintained by the Humane
Society under the management and control of the Board of Directors.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations for the
operation of the Animal Shelter and for the purpose of implementing the
provisions of this chapter, which rules and regulations shall be effective upon
approval by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-179, passed
10-26-2010)
§ 90.03 HUMANE OFFICER; POWERS.
   (A)   The Humane Officer and authorized personnel of the Humane Society
shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To destroy any dangerous, vicious or ferocious animal found at
large which cannot be safely captured and impounded by ordinary means; except
that, every reasonable effort shall be made to avoid destroying an animal which
has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person or which appears to have
rabies. If the destruction of the animal cannot be reasonably avoided, the
authorized agent shall attempt to destroy the animal in a manner so as to
preserve the head thereof intact;
      (2)   To confine and destroy any animal showing clinical symptoms of
rabies for laboratory diagnosis;
      (3)   To confine any animal suspected of having rabies;
      (4)   To confine any animal that has bitten or otherwise exposed a person
to rabies;
      (5)   To destroy any animal that has bitten or otherwise exposed a person
to rabies;
      (6)   To carry out all orders for confinement or destruction of any
animal issued by the County Health Officer, State Veterinarian or by any court
having jurisdiction in the county; and
      (7)   To carry out the orders for seizure, impoundment or destruction of
any animal issued by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Humane Officer and authorized personnel of the Humane Society
shall have the power to seize and impound:
      (1)   Any animal at large not conforming to division (A)(5) above;
      (2)   Any animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a
person or which appears to have rabies, wherever the animal may be found, and
any animal shall be impounded for not less than ten days;
      (3)   Any animal not confined, as provided in §
90.06(A)(3);
      (4)   Any animal not inoculated, licensed and tagged as provided in state
law; and
      (5)   Upon order of the court following a conviction of any person for
violating any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-179, passed
10-26-2010)
§ 90.04 REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any healthy animal seized or impounded for being at large may be
redeemed by the owner or other person, as authorized herein, at any time prior
to the disposition of the animal under division (B) below and upon showing that
the animal has a current license and rabies vaccination tag, and upon the
payment to the Humane Society of the following charges:
         (a)   A processing fee;
         (b)   A vaccination charge; and
         (c)   A boarding charge per day of animal stay pursuant to the current
charges of the Animal Shelter.
      (2)   Any animal seized or impounded for any reason who appears to any
duly licensed veterinarian to have any infectious disease, other than rabies,
may be destroyed forthwith.
      (3)   (a)   Any animal impounded pursuant to §
90.03(B) shall be confined at the Animal Shelter or, in the discretion of the
impounding officer, confined at the owner’s premises in a secure place not
accessible to the public.
         (b)   The Humane Officer shall have continuing authority and
discretion to remove any privately confined animal to the Animal Shelter at any
time during the ten-day period. At the expiration of the ten-day period, the
animal may be redeemed by the owner or other person as provided herein, upon
showing that the animal has a current license tag and rabies vaccination tag
and by payment to the County Humane Society of the applicable fee for the
confinement period.
   (B)   Any impounded animal which is not redeemed within five days after the
first day of impounding may be destroyed or disposed of by suitable and humane
means; provided, that in the case of an animal impounded pursuant to division
(A)(2) above, the animal shall not be destroyed or disposed of until after the
expiration of a period of ten days from the first day of impounding.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-179, passed
10-26-2010)
§ 90.05 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle which strikes a domestic animal within
the limits of the town shall promptly report the occurrence to the Humane
Society or to the local law enforcement agency with a description of the
animal, the location where the occurrence took place and an estimate of the
condition of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-179, passed
10-26-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CARE OF ANIMALS; BARKING DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   Every owner of an animal within the town shall provide at all
times that the animal or animals:
         (a)   Are kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner;
         (b)   Have proper and adequate food, water, shelter and ventilation,
including quarters that are protected from excessive heat and cold and are of
sufficient size to permit the animal to exercise and move about freely;
         (c)   If diseased or injured, receive proper care and if diseased, are
segregated from other animals so as to prevent transmittal of the disease; and
         (d)   Are maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state
and local laws and with all regulations in regard to animal care and control
that are adopted from time to time by the County Board of Health and the state.
      (2)   Animals confined through use of rope, chain or cable must have
unobstructed freedom of movement of a minimum of six feet in an arc of 180
degrees.
      (3)   Every un-neutered female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a
secure enclosure in a manner that the female cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding purpose.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to beat, cruelly ill-treat,
mutilate, torment, overload, overwork or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause,
instigate or permit any dog fight or other combat between animals or between
animals and humans.
   (B)   (1)   All persons owning, possessing or harboring a dog, or who own
property on which the tenant or other person in possession thereof owns,
possesses or harbors a dog within the corporate limits of the town, which dog
barks, howls or makes other sounds common to its species continuously for ten
minutes or intermittently for 20 minutes or more shall be deemed to have
permitted a nuisance to exist on the private property on which the dog is
located. Barking of any duration between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
shall be deemed to be a nuisance.
      (2)   Upon a police officer’s personal observation, or upon complaint of
a person disturbed by the nuisance, any police officer of the town may give an
oral warning to any person in possession or keeping of the dog that the
annoyance or disturbance must cease.
      (3)   Thereafter, upon continuance or resumption of the nuisance, the
person or persons responsible for the dog and the owners of the property on
which it is located shall each be deemed to have violated this division (B);
and each day or part of a day that the nuisance recurs shall be deemed to be a
separate violation of this division (B).
      (4)   (a)   The use by town police officers of the uniform traffic ticket
prescribed in I.C. 9-30-3-6, including any amendments or replacements of the
statute, is authorized for citation of violations of this division (B).
         (b)   Complaining parties shall use a form of complaint approved by
the Town Council for violations of this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 171-2009, passed 5-
12-2009; Ord. 2010-179, passed 10-26-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   In the event that an impounded animal is wearing a license tag, the Humane
Society will make a reasonable effort to contact the animal owner.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-179, passed
10-26-2010)
§ 90.08 PROCEDURES FOR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Town Council may order the Humane Officer and/or any law
enforcement officer to seize and impound any dangerous animal pending hearing
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing and of seizure and impoundment shall be given to
the animal’s owner, and the hearing shall be conducted not less than five days
nor more than 21 days after the seizure and impoundment.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Town Council shall determine whether or not the
animal in question is a dangerous animal.
   (D)   If the Council finds that the animal is a dangerous animal, the Town
Council may enter one or more of the following orders:
      (1)   Authorize that the animal may be reclaimed upon conditions,
including, but not limited to, payment of the fees of the Animal Shelter, proof
of insurance coverage for any injury, damage or loss caused by the animal,
proof that the animal has been micro-chipped by a licensed veterinarian,
payment for or proof of current rabies vaccination by a licensed veterinarian
and proof of ownership of the animal;
      (2)   The animal shall continue to be impounded for a period of ten days
to allow for appeal of the Town Council’s order by the animal’s owner to a
court of competent jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Upon expiration of the ten-day appeal period, if the animal’s owner
has not reclaimed the animal, the Animal Shelter may humanely euthanize the
animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 2010-179, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 90.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Humane Officer shall keep a record of all animals impounded in the
County Animal Shelter, which record shall show the date of impoundment, the
reason therefor, the name and address of the person bringing the animal to the
shelter and the species, sex, color, breed and any identifying collars, tags or
marks of the animal impounded.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest or interfere
with any authorized official in the performance of any duty described in this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Upon information sufficient to establish a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the Humane Officer or any law enforcement officer
may issue to the person committing the violation or to the owner or persons
having custody or control of any animal involved in the violation either:
         (a)   An official warning; or
         (b)   A notice of ordinance violation.
      (2)   An official warning shall state the name of the person to whom the
warning is being issued, the nature of the violation, the date of the violation
and any other pertinent information concerning the violation. The official
warning shall also state that it is only a warning and is not a notice to
appeal to answer to any violation.
      (3)   (a)   A notice of ordinance violation shall state the name of the
person to whom the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the
specific section of this chapter which has been violated, the date of the
violation and any other information which is pertinent to the violation and its
disposition.
         (b)   The notice of violation shall additionally instruct the person
to whom the notice is being issued the date, time and place before whom he or
she shall appear to respond to the notice and the procedures for admitting or
denying a violation.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-179, passed
10-26-2010; Ord. 2022-063, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   Any person or person(s) residing in the same dwelling unit may have a
maximum of four dogs, four cats or combination of dogs and cats which is four
in total at any time.
(Ord. 2022-063, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the schedule of fees of the Town Council, to be accessed in the Ordinance
Violations Bureau, or, if the aforementioned fee schedule is not applicable, §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. In lieu of appearing before a court of
competent jurisdiction, the person so charged may pay the fine assessed within
14 days to the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau. Upon conviction of a third or
subsequent offense committed within one year after the date of the first
offense, the penalty shall be a fine of not more than $1,000. In addition to
the fines provided herein, an animal in violation of this chapter may be
impounded at the owner’s expense until the penalty and all court costs are
paid.
   (B)   For each violation of §
90.06(B), a civil penalty shall be imposed as follows:
      (1)   Fifty dollars for the first violation;
      (2)   One hundred dollars for the second violation; and
      (3)   A penalty not to exceed $500 for each subsequent violation, in
addition to which the animal may be impounded at the owner’s expense until the
penalty and any court costs are paid.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 1999-123, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 171-2009, passed 5-
12-2009; Ord. 2010-179, passed 10-26-2010; Ord. 2022-063, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
91.09   Exemption
   
91.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 91.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 25 U.S.C. §§ 1301
et seq., the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
being 42 U.S.C. § 9816, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
and/or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   CONCILIATION. The attempted resolution of issues raised by a complaint or by
the investigation of a complaint, through informal negotiations involving the
aggrieved person, the respondent and the Commission.
   CONCILIATION AGREEMENT. A written agreement setting forth the resolution of
the issues in conciliation.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04 through
91.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (I. C. 22-9.5-2-9) having familial status as
that term is defined in this section. Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24
C.F.R. § 574.3, this definition includes families regardless of the actual or
perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representative, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   RESPONDENT. The person accused of a violation of this section in a complaint
of discriminatory housing practice, or any person identified as an additional
or a substitute respondent under I.C. 22-9.5-6-4 or an agent of an additional
or a substitute respondent.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the
prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth
in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
91.04 shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson licensed under I.C.
25-34.1, or any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of
any employee or agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 91.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
91.03 and except as exempted by §
91.03(B), it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, disability or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, disability or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COVERED MULTI-FAMILY UNITS. Buildings consisting of four or more units if
the buildings have one or more elevators and ground floor units in other
buildings consisting of four or more units.
      DISCRIMINATION. Includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the person with a
disability, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be
occupied by such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such
person full enjoyment of the premises;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after March 13, 1991, a failure to design
and construct those dwellings in such a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission that incorporate by reference the appropriate requirements of the
American National Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility
and usability for people with physical disabilities (ANSI A117.1) satisfies the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-
RELATED TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
91.03 through
91.06.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether acting under code or law, by force or threat of force
willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with the following commits a Class A misdemeanor:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person opportunity or protection to participate
in any activity, a service, an organization or a facility described herein.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, including the activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not open to
the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS
means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 91.09) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 91.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Town Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions, pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Town Council shall
refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A)
above to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and
appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Town Council and the Commission to further such
purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council or its designee shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) (Ord. 2022-052, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNLICENSED VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND BOATS
Section
   
92.01   Application of state law
   
92.02   Disposition of vehicles and/or parts valued at less than $750
   
92.03   Demolition derby cars
   
92.04   Prohibitions
   
92.05   Other ordinance or statutes
   
92.06   Disposition of abandoned vehicles and/or parts
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   This chapter specifically adopts the provisions of I.C. 9-13-2 et seq. and
9-22-1 et seq., as periodically amended.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 160-2006, passed 11-14-2006)
§ 92.02 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES AND/OR PARTS VALUED AT LESS THAN $750.
   The market value of an abandoned vehicle and/or part below which an officer
of the Police Department may dispose of the vehicle and/or parts is $750.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 160-2006, passed 11-14-2006)
§ 92.03 DEMOLITION DERBY CARS.
   (A)   Vehicles in an operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for exclusive operation on privately owned raceways, or parts thereof, shall
not be stored on private or public property unless stored inside a closed
structure out of public view.
   (B)   Demolition derby cars that are scheduled to participate in the County
Fair are exempt from this provision for a three-week period beginning seven
days prior to the start of the County Fair and ending seven days subsequent to
the end of the County Fair.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 160-2006, passed 11-14-2006)
§ 92.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a motor vehicle, trailer or
boat, park a motor vehicle, trailer or boat, without current license plates, or
park a motor vehicle, trailer or boat in an inoperable condition on private or
public property unless stored inside a closed structure out of public view.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 2022-056, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 OTHER ORDINANCE OR STATUTES.
   This chapter shall not limit the authority of the town from towing a vehicle
prior to the 72-hour period if authorized by another ordinance or statute.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 160-2006, passed 11-14-2006)
§ 92.06 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES AND/OR PARTS.
   (A)   When abandoned vehicles, trailers, boats and/or parts have been tagged
and the 72-hour period has expired, and whenever abandoned vehicles, trailers,
boats and/or parts are eligible for immediate removal under I.C. 9-22-1, the
Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal may engage the services of a towing
operator to remove, store and dispose of the vehicle, trailers, boats and/or
parts. The charges for towing and storage of abandoned, inoperable or
unlicensed vehicles, trailers, boats and/or parts removed from public or
private property upon direction of the Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal
shall not exceed the amounts specified in division (C) below.
   (B)   If the Town Marshal or the Deputy Town Marshal determines he or she
cannot have the vehicle, trailer, boat and/or parts towed because it is not
practicable to do so, or determines it is not in the best interest of the town
to attempt to tow the vehicle, trailer, boat and/or parts, the owner of the
vehicle, trailer, boat and/or parts, or the owner of the property on which the
vehicle, trailer, boat and/or parts is parked, shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $100. In lieu of appearing before a court of competent
jurisdiction, the person so charged may pay the fine assessed within 14 days to
the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau. Upon conviction of a third or subsequent
offense committed within one year after the date of the first offense, the
penalty shall be a fine of not more than $1,000.
   (C)   The maximum amount that an authorized towing service may charge for
hooking up, towing and removing a vehicle, trailer and/or parts under this
section shall be pursuant to customary towing rates. The maximum amount that
may be charged for storage of abandoned, inoperable or unlicensed vehicles,
trailers and/or parts shall be pursuant to customary storage rates.
   (D)   Originals of the officer’s abandoned vehicle reports and all
supporting documentation shall be promptly referred to and maintained as
required by I.C. 9-22-1 in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 2022-056, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §
92.06 may be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
      (2)   In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the
person so charged may pay the fine assessed within 14 days to the Town
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
      (3)   Upon conviction of a third or subsequent offense committed within
one year after the date of the first offense, the penalty shall be a fine of
not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 2022-056, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
93.01   Existence
   
93.02   Interpretation of words
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Reasonable care; creation of nuisance
   
93.05   Enumeration of nuisances
   
93.06   Administration and enforcement
   
93.07   Duty of officers
Open Burning and Air Pollution
   
93.20   Purpose
   
93.21   Definitions
   
93.22   Open burning restrictions
   
93.23   Burning of combustible materials
   
93.24   General restrictions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 93.01 EXISTENCE.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and the state statutes as
public nuisances, may, in case any thereof exist within the town limits, be
treated as such and be against as is provided in this subchapter; or in
accordance with any other provision of law. Wherever the word “nuisance” is
used in this subchapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
§ 93.02 INTERPRETATION OF WORDS.
   Whenever the singular of the words “person,” “owner,” “occupant,” “tenant,”
“agent,” “representative,” “company,” “corporation” or any other word referring
to a person or entity subject to this subchapter is used, the use thereof shall
likewise include the plural of the word and likewise when the plural of the
word is used, it shall include the singular. Whenever the word “person” or
“persons” is used to denote someone subject to the terms of this subchapter,
the word or words shall include companies, corporations, partnerships and other
legal entities, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE. A vehicle, used to transport persons or property, that is moved
by an engine or motor that is a part of the vehicle, over streets, highways,
tracks or roads.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle, whether
used in the transportation of persons, animals, personal property or
merchandise of any nature, that is detached from the automobile as a whole.
   DEBRIS. Broken scattered remains of anything, such as tree limbs, bottles,
appliances, building material, paper, piles, clumps of grass and/or weed
clippings, unsightly household items, trash, junk or any other accumulation
which is unsightly and interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or
occupants of adjacent property.
   INOPERABLE OR UNLICENSED VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND BOATS. Any style or type of
conveyance, whether for the transportation of persons or property, that is
unfit for further use as a vehicle, trailer and boat that will conform to all
the specifications required to pass a legal inspection, a conveyance not
bearing a current license plate or a conveyance that appears to be obsolete and
derelict that has been placed on blocks or jacks for a period exceeding 14 days
or a vehicle which is otherwise INOPERABLE. Vehicles, trailers and boats must
be moved every 30 days, or the Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal will
consider the vehicle, trailer or boat INOPERABLE.
   JUNK. Scraps, parts or obsolete pieces of anything, including, but not
limited to, metal, glass, paper, rags, tires or other rubber products, wood,
masonry and plastics.
   JUNK VEHICLES. Any style or type of conveyance, whether for the
transportation of persons or property, that is unfit for further use as a
vehicle that will conform to all the specifications required to pass a legal
inspection, a conveyance not bearing a current license plate or a conveyance
that appears to be obsolete and derelict and that has been placed on blocks or
jacks for a period exceeding 30 days.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Any weed over 12 inches in height, defined by the U.S.D.A. as
a prohibited or restricted nature and includes, but is not limited to, Canadian
and bull thistles, bindweed, wild garlic, wild grasses such as crab, johnson,
pepper and quack, giant foxtail, winter crest, buckhorn, corn cockle, curled
dock, dodder, horse nettle, oxeye daisy, penny crest, wild mustard and horse
weeds.
   RAGS. Cloth products of any nature whether wearing apparel, bed clothing,
towels or other usually in a dilapidated state or otherwise discontinued from
use.
   SCRAP LUMBER. Any thing of a wood nature that is not neatly stacked in
“slicked” quantities or that could not be construed as suitable for building in
the commonly accepted manner.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy. Any pieces or parts of metal covered with porcelain, paint or other
material shall be considered SCRAP.
   SCRAP PAPER. Paper of any kind whether loose, baled or bundled and includes,
but is not limited to, boxes, whether assembled or knocked down, newspapers, in
whole or in part, wrapping paper, loose or in a roll whether it be brown,
waxed, white or any color, plastics such as visqueen, saran wrap and the like.
   UNKEMPT LAWN. Any lawn on which grass exceeds a measured height of eight
inches in at least three locations visible from public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 91, passed - -; Ord. 176-2010, passed 4-11-2010;
Ord. 231-2019, passed 10-8-2019; Ord. 2022-060, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 93.04 REASONABLE CARE; CREATION OF NUISANCE.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, or tenants, or their agents
or representatives, but it shall suffice if the nuisance be created or
contributed to by licensees, invitees and guests, habitual trespassers or other
persons whose presence on the premises is subject to the control of the conduct
they have been made aware or ought to have become aware by the exercise of
reasonable care.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
§ 93.05 ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful, inside the corporation boundaries of the town, for any
person, firm, partnership or corporation:
   (A)   (1)   To store or keep abandoned, inoperable or unlicensed vehicles,
trailers, boats or automobile parts on a public right-of-way or on a private or
public lot exposed to the view of the general public.
      (2)   Vehicles, trailers and boats must be moved every 30 days, or the
Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal will consider the vehicle, trailer or boat
inoperable;
   (B)   To put, throw, dump, leave or deposit or to cause or allow the
putting, throwing, dumping, leaving or depositing of junk, scrap of any kind,
rags, debris or junk vehicles in or upon or within the limits of any street,
alley, sidewalk, thoroughfare or public way;
   (C)   To allow any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him, her or it
to become or remain in a filthy condition or the permission of the use or
occupation of same in a manner as to create noxious or offensive smells or
odors in connection therewith, or the allowance of the accumulation or creation
of scrap, junk, rags or other unwholesome and offensive matter or the allowance
of the breeding of flies, rodents or other vermin on the premises to the menace
of the public health or the annoyance of people residing in the vicinity;
   (D)   To permit any building, house or structure owned by same to become so
out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch
on fire or communicate fire because of its condition and lack of repair, or
that due to lack of adequate maintenance or neglect it endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially devalues and interferes with the
peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property;
   (E)   To erect, use or maintain a dwelling which is unfit for human
habitation. For the purpose of this division (E), DWELLING shall include any
part of any building or its premises used as a place of residence or habitation
or for sleeping by any person; and UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION shall mean a
dwelling which is dangerous or detrimental to life or health because of want of
repair, defect in the drainage, plumbing, lighting, ventilation or
construction, infection with contagious disease or the existence on the
premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness among occupants of
the dwelling;
   (F)   To cause or allow any tree, stack or other object to remain standing
upon the premises in a condition that it shall, if the condition is suffered to
continue, endanger the life, limb or property or cause hurt, damage or injury
to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent thereto,
by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
   (G)   To permit to emit from premises into the surrounding atmosphere the
odors, dusts, smoke or other debris as to render ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible;
   (H)   To allow any pool of stagnant water to accumulate and stand on any
property;
   (I)   To make or cause to be made any noise noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwelling houses or other uses of property in the vicinity by
interfering with the ordinary comforts of human existence, including, but not
limited to, continual pounding, continual barking by one or more dogs,
unnecessary sounding of horns, racing the motor or causing the screeching or
squealing of tires on any vehicles, radios or phonographs or televisions and
sound trucks or public address systems;
   (J)   To cause or allow debris, junk, noxious weeds, such an accumulation on
any premises of filth, trash, garbage or other waste materials that it
endangers the public health, welfare or safety or materially interferes with
the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of
the danger of its catching or communicating fire, its attracting and
propagating vermin, rodents or insects or its blowing into any street, sidewalk
or property of another. It shall be the duty of persons owning or being in
charge of those business establishments whose patrons purchase goods or
services from their automobiles, commonly known as drive-ins, to furnish
sufficient covered receptacles for the deposit of wastes created in the
operation of the business and to clean up wastes as are not deposited in
receptacles at the close of business of each day (if the business operates
continuously, at least once each day) and at other times when weather
conditions are such that waste from the operation of the business is being
blown to adjoining premises;
   (K)   To store or allow on the premises the combustible or explosive
material as to create a safety hazard to other property or persons in the
vicinity (automotive fuels in underground storage are exempt from this
restriction);
   (L)   To maintain or allow any unlocked refrigerator or upright or chest
type freezer, any open or uncovered, or insecurely covered, cistern, cellar,
well, pit, excavation or vault situation upon private premises in any open or
unfenced lot or place;
   (M)   To maintain or allow the growing of trees with less than 14 feet
clearance over streets or less than eight feet, over sidewalks, or the growing
and maintenance of shrubbery in excess of three feet in height within the
radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects
the curb line of another street. No shrub shall be planted between the curb
line of any street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb
line of any street intersects with the curb line of another street;
   (N)   To cause noxious weeds to be destroyed by spraying with a chemical
approved by the Council or by cutting them or digging them under;
   (O)   To allow, cause or permit the parking or stopping of a vehicle of any
kind on a sidewalk, walkway or path that would prohibit the use of the
sidewalk, walkway or path in whole or in part by the general pedestrian
traffic. Bicycle parking racks in those areas specified by the Council are
exempt from this restriction;
   (P)   To allow, cause or permit a lawn to become unkempt, such that the
grass exceeds a measured height of eight inches in at least three locations
visible from public right-of-way;
   (Q)   To allow, cause or permit grass clippings to accumulate in a manner as
to create noxious or offensive smells or odors in connection therewith, or the
allowance of the breeding of flies, rodents or other vermin, or that such grass
clippings accumulate in such a manner that they are unsightly and interfere
with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property;
   (R)   To allow, cause or permit shrubbery, bushes, trees, weeds or other
growth to accumulate in such a manner that it blocks a dwelling, building,
house or structure from sight or that such shrubbery, trees, weeds or other
growth becomes unsightly and interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners
or occupants of adjacent property;
   (S)   To allow grass, weeds, shrubbery, trees, bushes or other growth to
accumulate in such a manner that it blocks view of a public way such as an
intersection of a road, street, alley or sidewalk and causes a hazard of those
traveling on such road, street or sidewalk;
   (T)   To fail to number a house, apartment or other residence, dwelling,
building, house or other structure to which an address has been assigned with
the assigned number in a contrasting color, visible from the public right-of-
way. If a residence, dwelling, building, house or other structure to which an
address has been assigned is painted, the assigned number must be replaced
within five days. The number must meet the following specifications: The number
must be of such size that it is visible from the public right-of-way; the
number must be legible; the number must be of a contrasting color from the
color of the residence, dwelling, building, house or other structure; the
number must match that to which the residence, dwelling, building, house or
other structure was assigned; the number may be painted or attached; and the
number must be facing the street on which such address is located. This section
should not be interpreted to conflict with the laws of the state or the county;
   (U)   To allow, cause or permit wood, brush or lumber to accumulate in such
a manner that is unsightly and interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners
or occupants of adjacent property. Wood, brush and lumber must be stacked
neatly at all times;
   (V)   To allow, cause or permit a fence to be in a dilapidated condition
such that it is a hazard, and if it continues to remain standing upon the
premises in such a condition that it shall, if the condition is suffered to
continue, endanger the life, limb or property or cause hurt, damage or injury
to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent thereto,
by the falling thereof or parts thereof. Such fences shall not be leaning,
shall not be missing any slats or have any holes and must be maintained;
   (W)   To allow, cause or permit a recreational tent to remain erected for
greater than 72 hours from its erection, such tents must be removed from the
premises within 72 hours, and no person shall allow occupancy or camping within
a recreational tent for more than 72 hours;
   (X)   To allow a roll-off dumpster in the Residential District, excluding at
the park, without a permit. Such permit must be affixed and visible on the side
of the dumpster. Such permit shall extend for a maximum period of seven days,
after such time such permit must be renewed in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer;
   (Y)   To allow a camping trailer, travel trailer or RV to remain parked in
the same location for a period of greater than 180 days. Such vehicles or
trailers must be moved every 180 days; and
   (Z)   To allow shrubs, grass, weeds and/or bushes to encroach the property
line of any real estate such that it becomes unsightly and interferes with the
peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property or causes damage
to life or property by owners or occupants of adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 91, passed - -; Ord. 2022-060, passed 10-17-2022)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Except in the case of any unkempt lawn, in any case where a
nuisance exists, the Town Marshal, his or her deputy, any employee of the town
or any officer of the Town Council may be authorized and directed to serve
notice upon the owner of the premises where the nuisance exists to abate the
nuisance within 30 days of the notice.
      (2)   In case the nuisance is an unkempt lawn, the notice shall require
the nuisance to be abated within seven days of the notice. Such notice shall
only be required when the Town Marshal, his or her deputy, any employee of the
town or any officer of the Town Council determines it is in the best interest
of the town to abate the nuisance on behalf of the town and should not be
interpreted to require such notice prior to the town exercising enforcement
through §
93.99.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant shall refuse or fail to abate the nuisance
within the designated time:
      (1)   The Town Council may remove or cause to be removed or do cause to
be done other acts as are necessary and reasonable to abate the nuisance, by
authorizing town employees and/or third parties to perform the work;
      (2)   In cases other than abatement of unkempt lawns, the owner of the
premises shall be liable to the town for the actual costs of abatement,
including the costs of contracted services, the reasonable value of the time
and applicable employer costs associated with the time spent by town employees
assigned to abate the nuisance, the costs of rental, repair and fair rental
value of owned property employed to abate the nuisance and the costs of any
materials used to abate the nuisance;
      (3)   In cases of abatement of unkempt lawns, the owner shall be liable
to the town for the sum of $200 per mowing, in addition to the costs of repair,
or (in the cases of irreparable damage) the depreciated replacement value of
any town owned equipment damaged by objects not seen in the process of mowing;
      (4)   The costs of abatement of nuisances described herein, when
certified by the Clerk-Treasurer, delivered and filed in accordance with state
law, shall constitute a lien upon the property on which the nuisance was abated
and shall be enforceable as other liens upon real property;
      (5)   The person or persons shall be jointly and severally subject to the
penalties provided in §
93.99 and without limitation or exclusion of the town’s remedies in addition to
any expenses provided in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above;
      (6)   Hand delivery to the owner of owner-occupied premises or by mail
addressed to the owner of record at the address of the owner for the delivery
of property taxes, with proof of mailing, shall be deemed sufficient for all
purposes under this subchapter when notice to the owner may be given; and
      (7)   The town may only issue tickets one time in any seven-day period
for a violation of an unkempt lawn.
   (C)   (1)   On the occasion of the first violation of the provisions of this
subchapter prohibiting noxious weeds or unkempt lawns, notice by certified mail
to the owner of the property at the address shown for said property in the
records of the county for property taxation shall suffice for notice of
subsequent violations in the same season for said property; provided, that the
notice by certified mail contains an explanation that subsequent notices in
that season will be given only by posting at the property each time it is mowed
for subsequent violations.
      (2)   Provision of notice in this manner shall be deemed sufficient
notwithstanding other methods of providing notice provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 91, passed - -; Ord. 176-2010, passed 4-11-2010;
Ord. 191-2013, passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 201-2015, passed 8-11-2015; Ord. 2022-060,
passed 10-17-2022; Ord. 2023-276, passed 6-13-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DUTY OF OFFICERS.
   For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this subchapter into effect,
it is hereby made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report
the existence of nuisances to the Town Council or the Town Marshal, and for
this purpose the Town Marshal or other employees designated by the Town
Council, after reasonable notice to the occupant and at reasonable times, shall
be permitted to visit, enter into or upon any building, lot, grounds or
premises, within the limits of the town to investigate complaints of any
nuisances and to make examination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
OPEN BURNING AND AIR POLLUTION
§ 93.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is designed to control the burning of certain combustible
and noncombustible material in the open air or in containers, furnaces or
similar appurtenances causing the emission of smoke, offensive odors, fumes,
gases, soot or other pollutants which interfere with the enjoyment by the
people of the town of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) (Ord. 157-2006, passed 7- -2006)
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE CONTAINER. A noncombustible 55-gallon barrel or drum sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion air with enclosed sides, a bottom
and a mesh covering with openings no larger than square.
   AIR POLLUTANTS. Any substances such as cinder fly ash, smoke fumes, gas mist
and offensive odors.
   AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of substances in
quantities, having characteristics and being of duration which are with
reasonable certainty injurious to human life and property or which unreasonably
interfere with the enjoyment of life and property due to the emission of odors,
vapors, liquids or gases.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any waste or substance which is easily inflammable
such as tree leaves, papers, cartons, paper boxes, dry limbs or dry grass
cuttings.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Town Marshal or his or her deputies, or an employee
or officer of the town designated by resolution of the Town Council.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any waste material or substance not easily
inflammable, such as clothing, bedding, garbage, fresh grass cuttings, fresh
tree leaves, mattresses, tires or other rubber products, automobile hulks,
furniture, rugs, rags, cans, waste foodstuff, dead animals, animal excrement,
sawdust and any material which is subject to slow combustion usually emitting
smoke, offensive odors, fumes, gases or similar pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Environmental conditions, intermittent or continuous, produced or
correctable by a person, prejudicial to the reasonable enjoyment of health,
comfort or safety of an individual or causing injury or damage to persons and
property.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire from which the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere, the burning on the ground or in metal
containers or appurtenances other than adequate containers.
   SMOKE. Any small gas-borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion
and present in sufficient quantity to be visually observable.
   SOURCE. Any real or personal property or person contributing to air
pollution.
   TOWN. The Town of Mulberry, Indiana.
   VIOLATOR. A person contributing to air pollution in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) (Ord. 157-2006, passed 7- -2006)
§ 93.22 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   Open burning is permitted only in the following instances:
   (A)   Outdoor cooking;
   (B)   Campfires and scouting activities with prior approval of the Madison
Township Volunteer Fire Department or the Town Marshal, or his or her deputies,
or an employee or officer of the town; and
   (C)   Dry tree limbs and branches which will not be hauled by the town’s
contracted refuse service may be burned under the resident’s supervision during
daylight hours. The Enforcement Officer shall have the discretion to order
cessation or limitation of the burning for health or safety reasons.
(Prior Code, § 93.22) (Ord. 157-2006, passed 7- -2006) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 BURNING OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   Except as otherwise permitted under §
93.22, burning of combustible materials in an adequate container is permitted
only in the following instances:
   (A)   The burning takes place on property which contains either no buildings
or structures or which contains a residential structure with no more than two
units. No burning may take place in apartment complexes or mobile home parks;
   (B)   The burning takes place at a distance of five or more feet from any
combustible product, including buildings or automobiles or any structure; and/
or
   (C)   The burning does not take place on the sidewalks, streets or on the
grounds in front of the building.
(Prior Code, § 93.23) (Ord. 157-2006, passed 7- -2006) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Burning of combustible materials and open burning are subject to the
following restrictions.
   (A)   Only wood and paper products shall be burned.
   (B)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires shall be extinguished if the Enforcement Officer or his or her
designee determines that they are a nuisance, fire hazard or air pollution
problem.
   (D)   All burning of combustible materials in adequate containers described
above must occur between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. and shall be totally
extinguished at 7:00 p.m. If the daylight hours end before 7:00 p.m., the fire
must be extinguished when the daylight hours end.
   (E)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds or air stagnation. The
Enforcement Officer may determine that meteorological conditions are
unfavorable for burning and may order that any and all fires be extinguished at
such times.
   (F)   (1)   An individual may obtain a variance from this subchapter from
the State Department of Environmental Management in accordance with the rules
of the State Department of Environmental Management.
      (2)   The Enforcement Officer shall maintain the burning of structures
for the purpose of fire training and in all cases be regulated in accordance
with the rules of the State Department of Environmental Management.
   (G)   No burning shall occur when a national, state or county-wide burn ban
is in effect due to drought conditions.
(Prior Code, § 93.24) (Ord. 157-2006, passed 7- -2006; Ord. 2022-060, passed
10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or person to dump or allow to
accumulate any type of trash, garbage or other refuse upon the highway,
streets, alleyways or driveways or driveways and upon public property within
the town limits, including the park area of the town, and that such an act be
punishable by payment of a fine not more than $25.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of §§
93.01 through 93.08 shall be subject to a penalty not to exceed $300. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. In the event
an action on behalf of the town for violation of §§
93.01 through 93.08 is commenced in a court of competent jurisdiction, the town
shall be entitled to an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees in addition to the
penalties stated herein, as provided by state statute.
      (2)   In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction, the
person charged with violating any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through 93.08 may pay the fine assessed within 14 days to the Ordinance
Violations Bureau. Upon conviction of a third or subsequent offense committed
within one year after the date of the first offense, the penalty shall be a
fine of not more than $1,000. Progressive fines according to the number of
offenses is as follows:
 
First offense   $200
Second offense  $250
Third offense   $300
Fourth offense  $350
Fifth offense   $400
Sixth offense   $450
Seventh offense $500
 
   (D)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
93.20 through 93.25 shall, upon adjudication thereof, be assessed a civil
penalty of not more than $500 for each offense. Each day or a portion of each
day any violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 68, passed 8-8-1972; Ord. 91, passed - -; Ord. 157-
2006, passed 7- -2006; Ord. 176-2010, passed 4-11-2010; Ord. 2023-276, passed
6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Mulberry Centennial Park hours
   
94.02   Trash receptacles
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 MULBERRY CENTENNIAL PARK HOURS.
   (A)   From November 1 of each year to and including March 31 of each
succeeding year, no person shall be permitted within Mulberry Centennial Park
between the hours 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (B)   From April 1 of each year to and including October 31 of the same
year, no person shall be permitted within Mulberry Centennial Park between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 101, passed 8-9-1994) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRASH RECEPTACLES.
   The use of any trash receptacle or dumpster in Mulberry Centennial Park to
dispose of trash, waste construction material, debris, rubbish, yard waste or
any other waste not generated within said park is prohibited.
(Ord. 202-2015, passed 8-11-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty which may be imposed by law for the offense
of criminal trespass, any person found in violation of §
94.01 shall be subject to imposition of a civil penalty of not less than $25,
nor more than $500, for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 101, passed 8-9-1994)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE
Section
   
95.01   Authority
   
95.02   Applicability
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Prohibited noise
   
95.05   Enumeration of certain prohibited acts
   
95.06   Certain acts constitute nuisance
   
95.07   Exceptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of I.C. 36-1-3.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 95.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to the control of all noise within the corporate
limits of the town, as it exists now or may hereafter be altered.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle powered by a mechanical engine and designed to be
driven or used on any public or private property. The definition shall include,
but not be limited to, automobiles, vans, trucks, motorcycles, motor scooters,
dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-carts, minibikes and trail
bikes.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality.
   TOWN. The Town of Mulberry, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 95.04 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to make any
loud, raucous, improper, unreasonable, offensive or unusual disorder or tumult,
which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the town, or to permit the noise, disorder or tumult to
be made in or about his or her house or premises, and the same is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   Further, it shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, manager,
agent or operator of any property, structure, vehicle or business in the town
to prevent persons using property under their control from violating this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or
operated any machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound, if
it is located in or on any of the following:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle on a public right-of-way, highway or public space
if the sound generally is audible at a distance of 30 feet from its source;
and/or
      (2)   Any motor vehicle on a public right-of-way, highway, alley,
building, sidewalk or park, if the sound generated is audible at a distance of
30 feet from the device producing the sound.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts, uses or noises, among others, subject to specific
exceptions, are declared to be loud, raucous or disturbing noises in violation
of this chapter, but the enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound in a manner as to
disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any
time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person
who is in the room, vehicle or property in which the machine or device is
operated and who is a voluntary listener; and/or
   (B)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing sound which is cast
upon other properties, including the public right-of-way, for the purposes of
commercial advertising or to attract attention to any activity, performance,
sale, place or structure.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 CERTAIN ACTS CONSTITUTE NUISANCE.
   The following acts are declared to be a public nuisance, but the enumeration
of the particular offenses hereinafter defined shall not be construed to limit
this chapter, or to limit the offenses to the particular offense hereinafter
enumerated:
   (A)   The continuous or repeated sounding of any horn or signal device of a
motor vehicle when not used as a danger signal. For the purpose of this
section, CONTINUOUS shall be defined to include unnecessary or unreasonable
periods of time;
   (B)   The use of any motor vehicle with appurtenances attached thereto so as
to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise; and/
or
   (C)   The use of any motor vehicle with or without the attachment of various
appurtenances thereto so as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise or noises. This shall include the use of any vehicle
which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified exhaust
system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid acceleration, deceleration, revving
the engine or squealing of tires.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall be excepted from the prohibitions of this chapter:
   (A)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors and similar home power tools when
properly muffled and in operation for their intended purposes between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.;
   (C)   Burglar alarms or other alarms when properly installed on publicly or
privately owned property; provided, that the alarm is promptly attended to by
its owner and turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Permitted parades or other permitted events between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 12:00 a.m. midnight, Sunday through Thursday; and between 8:00 a.m.
and 1:00 a.m. Friday through Saturday;
   (E)   The emission of sound upon proper authority for the purposes of
alerting persons to the existence of an emergency, or for the performance of
emergency services; and/or
   (F)   Sounds associated with normal conduct of a legally established non-
transient business, when the sounds are customary, in and within the normal
range appropriate for the use.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
adjudication thereof, be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $500 for
each offense. Each day or a portion of each day any violation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 145-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Sales permit required
   
110.03   Permit fees
   
110.04   Exceptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL CONCERN. Any commercial transaction resulting in goods, wares or
merchandise being sold by the commercial concern to the public for monetary
payment therefor, excepting therefrom a service or any endeavor generally
recognized as a garage sale, a porch sale, a yard sale or flea market, defined
as the sale of conglomerate collectibles, new or used, with no single item
being sold for an amount greater than $100 and/or a total value of goods to be
sold at any flea market in a sum greater than $1,000.
   NON-PERMANENT COMMERCIAL CONCERN. Any commercial endeavor or any person,
partnership or corporation conducting a commercial endeavor on a temporary
basis (for a period of less than 30 days) and from house to house or from a
location or place of business which is not affixed to real estate within the
town.
(Ord. 220-2018, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 110.02 SALES PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   There is hereinafter established a sales permit to be issued by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer or by the Town Police Department, in the event any sales
permit shall be issued and purchased during the hours when the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office is closed. It shall be the obligation and the duty, as well
as a condition precedent to conducting business within the corporate boundaries
of the town, that every non-permanent commercial concern purchases a sales
permit.
   (B)   The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from
complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating
temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
conducting a transient business in connection with, as a part of or in the name
of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. 220-2018, passed 6-12-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The sales permit shall be paid by every sole proprietor, partnership
or corporation pursuing a non-permanent commercial concern, who shall pay to
the town, at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Police Department, the
sum of $100 for the privilege of pursuing commercial concerns for a period not
exceeding 24 hours; the sum of $150 for the privilege of conducting commercial
concerns for a period not exceeding 48 hours; and the sum of $300 for the
privilege of conducting commercial concerns for a period of time up to, but not
exceeding, 30 days.
   (B)   The permit shall not issue until the permit fee specified herein is
paid in full either in cash or money order. No checks shall be accepted in
payment for the permit. After the permit has been paid for and issued, and
identification card or cards approved or prepared by the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office or Town Police Department are provided, the identification card must be
prominently displayed by each person while conducting the commercial activity.
   (C)   The town reserves the right not to renew the permit or to revoke the
permit upon unverified complaint of any citizen or upon recommendation of the
Town Police Department or any officer of the town.
   (D)   The holder of a permit which expires or is revoked shall surrender all
identification cards to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Police
Department upon demand, or within 24 hours of expiration or revocation,
whichever is sooner.
(Ord. 220-2018, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 110.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Excepted from this chapter shall be any items sold at any public auction,
estates of decedents or other nonprofit and charitable fundraisers by citizens
of the town and organizations located in the town. Also excluded are handmade
and handcrafted items being offered for sale by the maker thereof. It is the
intention of this chapter that it apply to peddlers and other commercial
concerns selling at retail and not to sellers selling wholesale.
(Ord. 220-2018, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   For each sale in violation of this chapter, the maximum penalty shall be in
accordance with the following:
   (A)   For the first violation, a penalty of $250;
   (B)   For the second violation, a penalty of $500; and
   (C)   For three or more violations, a penalty of $2,500.
(Ord. 220-2018, passed 6-12-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Firearms and weapons
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred
in I.C. 31-37-3-4.
(Prior Code, § 131.01)
   (B)   Normal town curfew hours. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, the normal hours of curfew for children 17 years of age or younger in
the town are after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Prior Code, § 131.02)
   (C)   Advanced town curfew hours.
      (1)   During all applicable periods provided in division (D) below,
curfew for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age in the town shall be:
         (a)   After 11:00 p.m. Friday and before 5:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. Saturday and before 5:00 a.m. Sunday;
         (c)   After 9:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday; and
         (d)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday.
      (2)   During all applicable periods provided in division (D) below,
curfew for a child under the age of 15 shall be between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
each evening and 5:00 a.m. the next morning.
(Prior Code, § 131.03)
   (D)   Applicable periods of advanced town curfew times. The advanced curfew
times established in division (C) above shall be in effect at all times, unless
superseded by order of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 131.04)
   (E)   Defenses. All defenses to curfew violation provided in I.C. 31-37-3-
3.5, and all statutes amendatory thereto and in replacement thereof, shall be
available to children found in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 131.05)
(Ord. 2002-137, passed 10-15-2002; Ord. 2022-071, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.02 FIREARMS AND WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms, including, but
not limited to, shotguns, rifles, pistols, revolvers and air guns within the
corporate limits of the town, and the act is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) (Ord. 23, passed 6-9-1953) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provisions of §
130.02 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $110. In lieu of appearing
before a court of competent jurisdiction, the person so charged may pay the
fine assessed within 14 days to the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 132.99) (Ord. 2022-070, passed 10-17-2022)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Unsafe Building Law
   
150.02   Manufactured (mobile) homes
Building Inspections and Permits
   
150.15   Authority
   
150.16   Title
   
150.17   Purpose
   
150.18   Building Inspector
   
150.19   Scope and territorial applicability
   
150.20   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.21   Permit required; application
   
150.22   Other ordinances
   
150.23   Fees and required inspections
   
150.24   Inspections; assistance
   
150.25   Entry
   
150.26   Stop order
   
150.27   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.28   Workmanship
   
150.29   Violations
   
150.30   Right of appeal
   
150.31   Remedies
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the Unsafe Building Law, I.C. 36-7-9,
for all territory, buildings and structures within the jurisdiction of the
town.
   (B)   Administration of the law for the town shall be the responsibility of
the Town Council.
   (C)   For all purposes incident to the administration of the law, the
definitions of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST contained in I.C. 36-7-9-2, as
from time to time amended, shall be deemed incorporated herein as if set forth
in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 102, passed 8-9-1994)
§ 150.02 MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person,
persons, partnership, firm or corporation to construct, place, put, park or
erect inside the corporation limits of the town any house trailer, mobile home,
manufactured home or other transportable structure which may be used for human
habitation or other, that is less than 23 feet wide at its narrowest dimension
and less than 950 square feet in useable living area.
   (B)   All other mobile, portable or manufactured structures may be placed in
any mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 96, passed 3-8-1993; Ord. 2022-069, passed 10-17-
2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
BUILDING INSPECTIONS AND PERMITS
§ 150.15 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of I.C. 36-7-2-9 and
I.C. 22-13-1.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.16 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all amendments hereto shall be known as the “Building
Code of the Town of Mulberry, Indiana,” may be cited as such and will be
referred to herein as “this building code.”
(Prior Code, § 151.16) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.17 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.18 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever in this subchapter it is provided that anything must be done
to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Inspector, this
shall be construed to give the officer only the discretion of determining
whether this subchapter has been complied with; and no provision shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this subchapter
shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to
enforce this subchapter in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
   (C)   Any variance from adopted building rules are subject to approval under
I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Prior Code, § 151.18) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.19 SCOPE AND TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy and addition to all buildings and structures, other than
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4, in the town limits or within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of Title 675 of the State
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter and
shall include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in
the state register or the State Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   State Building Code;
         (c)   State Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14, One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16, Plumbing Codes: State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, Electrical Codes:
         (a)   State Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18, Mechanical Codes: State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20, Swimming Pool Codes: State Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.21 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   An improvement location permit shall be obtained before beginning
construction, alteration or repair of any building or structure under any of
the following circumstances:
      (1)   When the work includes the construction, reconstruction or movement
of any part or all of a foundation;
      (2)   When the work includes a major change to an existing structure,
including, but not limited to, a new installation or complete replacement of,
or a major addition to, the electrical system of the structure, including, but
not limited to, the installation of a meter base;
      (3)   When the work includes the installation or replacement of, or an
addition to, the plumbing or heating system of the structure; and/or
      (4)   When the work includes the replacement, removal, movement,
construction or reconstruction of a roof, exterior wall or interior wall
(excluding re-roofing, siding and other exterior improvements which, in the
Building Inspector’s judgment, do not affect the structural integrity or safety
of the building).
   (B)   No improvement location permit shall be issued for the foregoing
purposes for a proposed building unless the application for a permit is
accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot
boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the work to be done. In
addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State Building Commissioner
and the State Fire Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to
the Building Inspector before issuance of a permit for construction covered by
the design release.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector
shall require full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in §
150.23.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   An improvement location permit required by §
150.21 shall be issued upon payment of inspection fees according to the
following schedule; provided, that issuance of the permit is authorized under
the Unified Zoning Ordinance; and, provided further, the fee hereunder:
Type of Construction Standard Number of Inspections
Type of Construction                Standard Number of Inspections
Accessory building over 120 sq. ft. 2: *electric meter - 1
Additions to existing               3: *electric meter - 1
Alterations (interior)              2: *electric meter - 1
                                    foundation work - 1
Carport                             2
Deck/porch                          2
Garage (detached)                   3: *electric meter - 1
Manufactured housing (modular)      4
Meter base-electrical update        1 additional
Pole barn (non-farm)                2: *electric meter - 1
Single and double wide mobile homes 3
Single-family dwelling              5
Swimming pool (above ground)        1
Swimming pool (in ground)           2
Temporary structures (time limit)   1**
Two-family dwelling                 5
NOTES TO TABLE:
—Apartment, motel, hotel, business, commercial, public educational,
institutional, church, industrial, warehouse, bulk storage and others
*Conference with Inspector required
**Inspector has prerogative of requiring additional inspections or waiver, if
appropriate
 
   (B)   (1)   The minimum inspection fee for any inspection shall be $33. For
unusually large or complex buildings or structures, the Building Inspector
shall have the power to increase the number of required inspections by 50%. The
Building Inspector shall, in all cases, designate the stage of construction
when each required inspection must be requested by the permit holder. No
concrete shall be placed for foundations without prior inspection. No
electrical, mechanical, plumbing or thermal insulation work shall be covered
without prior inspection. Where additional inspections are required due to
failure of permit holder to have worked ready for inspection at a designated
stage of construction, the Building Inspector shall have the power to assess a
re-inspection fee of $33 for each additional inspection. All fees shall be paid
at the office of the Area Plan Commission of the county and shall be payable
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall submit an annual report to the Town
Council which shall include an analysis of inspections performed, permit fees
collected, cost of inspection operations and recommendations for adjustment of
required inspections and single inspection fees as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 INSPECTIONS; ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   (1)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Inspector shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being
done as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter and the terms of the permit.
      (2)   Re-inspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of re-inspection fees as prescribed in
this subchapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, in his or her discretion, may confer with the
Chief of the Madison Township Volunteer Fire Department, or his or her
designated representative, for assistance in the inspection of fire
suppression, detection and alarm systems.
(Prior Code, § 151.24) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.25 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises under the jurisdiction of this subchapter to perform any
duty imposed upon him or her by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.25) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.26 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be
done, and any persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the
Building Inspector to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 151.26) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.27 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure constructed
after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless the building or
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or structure unless a
full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by or with
the approval of the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 151.27) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.28 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings or other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Prior Code, § 151.28) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.29 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, under the jurisdiction of this subchapter, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.29) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.30 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Inspector first through the Town Council and then to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 22-13-2-7 and 4-21.5-3-7.
(Prior Code, § 151.30) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.31 REMEDIES.
   The Building Inspector shall refer violations of this subchapter to the Town
Council, who may bring actions for mandatory and injunctive relief in the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Building Inspector, and any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.31) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
150.15 through
150.31, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully ordered, within the time prescribed by the Building Inspector, or
shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Inspector in connection with the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.31 for each violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm or corporation
shall be subject to a civil penalty for each violation in an amount not more
than $2,500. Each day of unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this division (B) shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 1998-122, passed 12-8-1998)
CHAPTER 151: RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Safe and habitable premises
   
151.03   Annual registration
   
151.04   Inspection
   
151.05   Third parties
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSPECTION CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Inspection Officer
documenting that a rental unit has passed inspection and the owner is permitted
to rent or lease the unit.
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The following persons, working separately or together,
who shall enforce the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   The Inspection Officer or his or her designee;
      (2)   The Fire Inspector, Fire Chief or other designated officer; and
      (3)   Authorized personnel of the County Health Department.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, living, sleeping, cooking or having physical or actual
possession of a rental unit.
   OWNER. One or more persons in whom is vested all or part of the legal title
to property. This term includes a mortgagee or contract purchaser in
possession.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, an association, a partnership, a
governmental entity, a trust, an estate or any other legal or commercial
entity.
   REGISTRATION FEE. The amount required to be paid to the town when
registering a rental unit with the town.
   RENTAL UNIT.
      (1)   A structure, or the part of a structure, that is used as a home,
residence or sleeping unit by:
         (a)   One individual who maintains a household; or
         (b)   Two or more individuals who maintain a common household.
      (2)   Any grounds, facilities or area promised for the use of a
residential tenant, including the following:
         (a)   An apartment unit;
         (b)   A boarding house;
         (c)   A rooming house;
         (d)   A mobile home space; and
         (e)   A single-family dewlling or two or more family dwelling.
   RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. One or more parcels of contiguous real property upon
which are located one or more structures containing rental units, if:
      (1)   The combined total of all rental units in all of the structures is
five or more rental units; and
      (2)   The rental units are not occupied solely by the owner or the
owner’s family.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. A building or structure, or any part of a building or
structure, that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statue or chapter concerning building condition or maintenance;
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance; or
      (7)   Otherwise in violation of state or county unsafe building laws.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. The tract of real estate on which an unsafe building is
located.
(Ord. 221-2018, passed 5-1-2018)
§ 151.02 SAFE AND HABITABLE PREMISES.
   An owner must maintain the rental unit in a safe and habitable manner.
Accordingly, the owner must ensure that a rental unit:
   (A)   Is not an unsafe building;
   (B)   Is in compliance with all rules, regulations, ordinances, statutes or
other laws, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Section
150.01; and
      (2)   International Residential Code (IRC) 2024.
   (C)   Is safe and habitable with respect to:
      (1)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
      (2)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
      (3)   Water supply, including hot water;
      (4)   Heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment and systems;
      (5)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
      (6)   Doors, windows, stairways and hallways;
      (7)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
      (8)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
(Ord. 221-2018, passed 5-1-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration form.
      (1)   The registration form shall require information, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Name of owner;
         (b)   Address of rental unit;
         (c)   Mailing address for owner or owner’s representative;
         (d)   E-mail address, phone number, number of units that owner rents;
and
         (e)   Verification that the landlord will update any and all
information within 30 days of any change.
      (2)   The Inspection Officer may amend the registration form from time to
time as appropriate and/or necessary.
   (B)   Annual registration and fee. An owner of rental unit in the town shall
complete a registration form and pay an annual $5 registration fee
(“registration fee”) for each parcel of real property on which a rental unit is
located. The registration form and the registration fee shall be submitted to
the Town Clerk Treasurer. The registration fee shall be due by January 31 of
each year.
   (C)   Rental unit community exception. Notwithstanding the provisions of
division (B) above, an owner of a rental unit will only be obligated to
complete one registration form and to submit a single registration fee per each
rental unit that has a water meter.
   (D)   Obligation to update information. The owner of a rental unit will be
required to update its registration form within 30 days of any change in
address, change in ownership or any other material changes thereto. Failure to
do so will result in a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Initial registration. All current owners shall submit an initial
registration form and a registration fee for any and all existing rental units
by January 31, 2018. Thereafter, any owner shall have 30 days from obtaining
ownership in a rental unit and/or leasing a rental unit to register that rental
unit with the town and to submit the registration fee.
   (F)   Homestead exemption. The owner of a rental unit will be required to
verify, in writing, that he or she is in compliance with state laws regarding
homestead property tax deductions. This shall include written verification that
a homestead property tax deduction is not being claimed on the property while
in use as a rental unit. This verification shall be required during initial
registration and at each annual registration. Failure to comply with this
section shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Rental Registration and Inspection Fund. All registration fees
required hereunder shall be deposited in the Rental Registration and Inspection
Fund.
(Ord. 221-2018, passed 5-1-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspections authorized. The Inspection Officers are authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of rental units located
within the town.
      (1)   The Inspection Officers are authorized to enter, examine and
survey, at all reasonable times, all rental units. The owner or the owner’s
representative and/or occupant of every rental unit shall give the Inspection
Officer free access to such rental unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of such inspection, examination and survey, provided,
however, that such Inspection Officer has, prior to entry thereof, positively
identified himself or herself as a person authorized pursuant to this chapter
to enter upon said premises. At the time of each inspection, all pets must be
controlled so that the Inspection Officer can move about the dwelling and
surrounding property.
      (2)   The owner or the owner’s representative and the occupant shall be
entitled to 72 hours’ written notice from the Inspection Officer prior to
conducting the inspection, examination or survey. In the event that the owner,
or the tenant if occupied, refuses to allow the Inspection Officer to conduct
the inspection, the Inspection Officer shall apply for a warrant to make the
inspection in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-16.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to limit or restrain the
right of the Inspection Officer to make an inspection of any other building or
premises pursuant to any of the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. or the
county’s ordinances concerning unsafe buildings or unsightly premises.
   (B)   Inspection at least once every other year. Every rental unit operated
and maintained in the town shall be inspected by the Inspection Officer or his
or her designee at least one time every other year (“routine inspection”). The
routine inspection shall be made to ascertain that the facility conforms to all
requirements of this chapter, any other ordinance of the town or county and all
statutes of the state regarding such facilities.
   (C)   Exemption to routine inspection. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-20-4.1(c),
except as provided in division (D) below, the town may not conduct a routine
inspection of a rental unit or impose a fee pertaining to the inspection of a
rental unit if the rental unit satisfies all of the following:
      (1)   The rental unit is:
         (a)   Managed by a professional real estate manager; or
         (b)   Part of a rental unit community that is managed by a
professional real estate manager.
      (2)   During the previous 12 months, the rental unit has been inspected
or is part of a rental unit community that has been inspected by either of the
following:
         (a)   By or for:
            1.   The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
the State Housing and Community Development Authority or another federal or
state agency; or
            2.   A financial institution or insurance company authorized to do
business in the state.
         (b)   By an inspector who:
            1.   Is a registered architect;
            2.   Is a professional engineer; or
            3.   Satisfies the qualifications of the Town Building Inspector
such that the inspector would qualify as an Inspection Officer.
         (c)   By an inspector who is not an employee of the owner.
      (3)   A written inspection report of the inspection under division (C)(2)
above has been issued to the owner of the rental unit or rental unit community
(as applicable) that verifies that the rental unit or rental unit community is
safe and habitable with respect to:
         (a)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
         (b)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
         (c)   Water supply, including hot water;
         (d)   Heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment and systems;
         (e)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
         (f)   Doors, windows, stairways and hallways;
         (g)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
         (h)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
      (4)   The inspection report issued under division (C)(3) above is
delivered to the Town Building Inspector on or before the date of the scheduled
inspection.
   (D)   Additional inspections. In addition to the routine inspection, the
town may inspect any rental unit, if the political subdivision has reason to
believe or receives a complaint that the rental unit does not comply with
applicable code requirements, or upon request of the property owner, as long as
the town provides 72 hours’ written notice as provided in division (A)(2)
above.
   (E)   Access. Every occupant of a rental unit shall give the owner thereof,
or the owner’s representative, access to any part of such dwelling or rental
unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection certificate. The Inspector Director shall issue to the
owner of every registered and inspected rental unit an inspection certificate
as proof that the unit passed inspection. The inspection certificate shall be
valid until the next inspection.
   (G)   Violation notice. If an Inspection Officer finds that a rental unit or
any part thereof fails to comply with any standard set forth in this chapter,
any other ordinance of the town or any statute of the state, he or she shall
give notice of the alleged violation to the owner of the rental unit (the
“violation notice”). The violation notice shall be in writing and shall
reasonably describe the violation found. The violation notice shall further
specify the date by which the violation must be corrected.
   (H)   Service of violation notice. 
      (1)   The violation notice shall be served upon the owner, or the owner’s
representative, and the occupant of the rental unit.
      (2)   The violation notice may be served by any of the following methods:
         (a)   Sending a copy of the violation notice by registered or
certified mail to the address of the owner and/or occupant as reflected on the
registration form;
         (b)   Delivering a copy of the violation notice personally to the
person to be notified; or
         (c)   Leaving a copy of the violation notice at the address of the
owner and/or occupant as reflected on the registration form.
      (3)   In the event that service cannot be obtained by the foregoing
methods, the alternate means of service described in I.C. 36-7-9-25 may be
used.
   (I)   Curing violations. A rental unit that the Inspection Officer finds to
be unsafe or uninhabitable shall be repaired so that it meets acceptable
standards within 15 days of the violation notice. Any other violations shall be
repaired within 30 days of the violation notice. Failure to cure a violation
shall result in a violation of this chapter. The Town Inspection Director may
extend the period for cure for good cause.
   (J)   Re-inspection. Upon termination of the applicable notice period as
provided in division (I) above, the town may re-inspect the property and charge
an inspection fee for any and all such re-inspections. The owner of the rental
unit shall be charged a fee of $100 for re-inspections.
(Ord. 221-2018, passed 5-1-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 THIRD PARTIES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to confer, nor is it intended to confer,
any rights or remedies upon any owner, occupant or any other third party.
(Ord. 221-2018, passed 5-1-2018)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the violating
party to a fine not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation continues or
remains uncured shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 221-2018, passed 5-1-2018)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Right-of-Way Encroachments
   
152.01   Authority and enactment
   
152.02   Encroachments on public property
   
152.03   Notice of encroachment
   
152.04   Failure to remove
   
152.05   Cost of removing
   
152.06   Violation
   
152.07   Present encroachment
Openings and Excavations
   
152.20   Written permission
   
152.21   Application
   
152.22   Bond
   
152.23   Written notice
Unimproved Alleys and Streets
   
152.35   Definition
   
152.36   Owners of abutting property
   
152.37   Vehicular access; generally
   
152.38   Vehicular access by abutting owners
   
152.39   Right to vacate reserved
 
   
152.99   Penalty
RIGHT-OF-WAY ENCROACHMENTS
§ 152.01 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of
I.C. 36-1-3 and 36-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 94.01)
   (B)   Enactment. The following provisions are hereby adopted for the
removal, prevention and termination of encroachments upon public rights-of-way
and other public property within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 94.02)
(Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989)
§ 152.02 ENCROACHMENTS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The Town Council shall have the authority, in regard to public rights to
public rights-of-way or other property under its jurisdiction, to remove,
prevent or terminate any encroachment thereon, including, but not limited to,
the drainage onto or the inundation thereof, from outside the rights-of-way or
other property under the jurisdiction of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989)
§ 152.03 NOTICE OF ENCROACHMENT.
   If the Town Council determines that an encroachment exists, notice thereof
shall be given to the owner of the real estate which is served by, or from
which the encroachment emanates, by certified mail sent to the owner’s last
known address; a copy of the notice may also be sent to the occupant of the
real estate, if any, and a copy of the notice shall be posted upon the real
estate in a conspicuous place. The notice shall specify the encroachment and
shall also specify time within which the owner of the real estate shall remove,
prevent or terminate the encroachment, but in no event shall the period of time
specified be less than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989)
§ 152.04 FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   If the owner of the real estate shall not have removed, prevented or
terminated the encroachment within the time specified in the notice provided by
§
152.03, the Town Council may enter the real estate and do whatever, in its
discretion, is necessary to remove, prevent or terminate the encroachments or
may cause the same to be done by other persons, parties or corporations.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989)
§ 152.05 COST OF REMOVING.
   (A)   The cost of removal, prevention or termination of the encroachment as
provided by §
152.04 shall be borne by the real estate owner; and after the Town Council has
completed, or has caused to be completed, the removal, prevention or
termination of the encroachment, the Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the real
estate owner a statement for the costs thereof.
   (B)   If the statement remains unpaid for a period of 30 days, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall certify the amount thereof, and the record thereof shall be
made a lien against the real estate pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989)
§ 152.06 VIOLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to maintain or permit the existence of
an encroachment after expiration of the period of time specified in any notice
given to the person, firm or corporation in accordance with §
152.03.
   (B)   Each day that the encroachment is maintained or permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 PRESENT ENCROACHMENT.
   Where an encroachment on a public right-of-way or other property within the
jurisdiction of the town is in existence on the effective date of this
subchapter, the encroachment shall not be allowed to remain unless it is
determined by the Town Council that the encroachment in no way impairs the
safety or utility of the right-of-way of other property.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989)
OPENINGS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.20 WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   No person, firm or corporation shall make any opening or excavation in any
street, alley or other public place or remove any pavement from any street or
alley, except as hereinafter provided, until written permission from the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) (Ord. 21, passed 10-14-1952) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 APPLICATION.
   The application shall set forth the location, size and purpose of the
opening or excavation desired to be made, the kind and extent of any pavement
necessary to be removed, the time when it is desired that the work may be
commenced, approximately when the work will be completed and the names of all
persons for whose benefit the work is to be done.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) (Ord. 21, passed 10-14-1952)
§ 152.22 BOND.
   (A)   Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall file his or her bond
in a sum to be fixed and approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   The bond shall be signed by the person or persons desiring to make the
excavation and by not less than two resident freehold sureties conditioned to
hold the town harmless from any town caused by carelessness or negligence in
the prosecution of any work.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) (Ord. 21, passed 10-14-1952)
§ 152.23 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   When any opening or excavation is ready for refilling or the pavement or
street surface is ready for relaying, repaving or resurfacing, written notice
thereof shall be given by the applicant to the town, and after the notice has
been given, the applicant shall proceed at once to refill the opening or
excavation and restore the pavement and street surface to its original
condition, and that the applicant and all others upon whose behalf the
application was made shall be liable to the town for any loss or damage that
may result directly or indirectly to persons or property by reason of the
opening or excavation not being properly guarded or protected by lights,
barriers or otherwise, so as to prevent injury therefrom, and the liability
shall continue until the applicant has received written notice from the town
that the work has been satisfactorily completed.
(Prior Code, § 94.23) (Ord. 21, passed 10-14-1952)
UNIMPROVED ALLEYS AND STREETS
§ 152.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNIMPROVED ALLEY OR STREET. Includes platted alleys, streets or rights-of-
way within the corporation limits which have not been vacated under state law
and which have not been graded, paved with asphalt or improved with crushed
stone or gravel by the town.
(Prior Code, § 94.30) (Ord. 187-2012, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 152.36 OWNERS OF ABUTTING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The owners of property abutting an unimproved alley or street shall
maintain that portion of the unimproved alley or street from such abutting
property boundary to the centerline of such alley or street by mowing and
controlling weeds and rank vegetation. The owners of property abutting an
unimproved alley or street adjoining the corporation boundary shall maintain
such adjoining unimproved alley or street from the abutting property boundary
to the corporation limit.
   (B)   No buildings, fences or other structures shall be constructed or
maintained within an unimproved alley or street.
   (C)   Personal property, trees and landscaping placed or maintained within
an unimproved alley or street shall be at risk of removal, without
compensation, by order of the Town Council, and upon five days; written notice
by priority mail to the owner of record at the address given for the mailing of
property tax statements and by posting on the premises, or without notice in
the cases of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 94.31) (Ord. 187-2012, passed 11-13-2012; Ord. 2022-066, passed
10-17-2022)
§ 152.37 VEHICULAR ACCESS; GENERALLY.
   Except as provided in §
152.38(A), an unimproved alley or street may not be used for vehicular access
except by the owners of property which abuts such alley or street, by the town
and its utilities, by public utility companies and by fire, police or other
public safety agencies.
(Prior Code, § 94.32) (Ord. 187-2012, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.38 VEHICULAR ACCESS BY ABUTTING OWNERS.
   (A)   Owners of property which abuts an unimproved alley or street may use
such abutting unimproved alley or street for occasional vehicular access
without a permit, provided that:
      (1)   Personal property, trees and landscaping of another abutting
property owner are undisturbed;
      (2)   Vehicular access is avoided when likely to result in ruts or damage
to turf on account of the condition of the unimproved alley or street; and
      (3)   Any and all ruts or damages to the turf are repaired and the
unimproved alley or street is restored to its condition prior to vehicular
access.
   (B)   Vehicular access by an owner of property which abuts an unimproved
alley or street beyond occasional access under the conditions described in
division (A) above is prohibited without the prior written permission of the
Town Council upon terms and conditions which may include improvement of the
unimproved alley or street or part thereof in accordance with design standards
approved by the Town Council, entry of a maintenance agreement, bonding for
maintenance and such other conditions as the Town Council may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 94.33) (Ord. 187-2012, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.39 RIGHT TO VACATE RESERVED.
   The right of the town to vacate unimproved alleys and streets in accordance
with state law is reserved.
(Prior Code, § 94.34) (Ord. 187-2012, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to, or in lieu of, an action by the Town Council to
remove, prevent or terminate an encroachment, an action to enforce §§
152.01 through 152.08 may be brought pursuant to amounts allowable under
Indiana Code A judgment not exceeding $2,500 may be entered for each violation
of §§
152.01 through
152.07.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall make any opening or
excavation in any street or alley, or remove any pavement therefrom, without
first complying with the provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.23 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not to exceed $25,
plus the cost of the prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 21, passed 10-14-1952; Ord. 90, passed 8-8-1989)
CHAPTER 153: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Authority
   
153.02   Jurisdiction
   
153.03   Administration and enforcement
   
153.04   Procedures and requirements
   
153.05   Substantive variation
   
153.06   Public availability
   
153.07   Permit and bond
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted by the Town Council pursuant to the authority of
I.C. 36-9-28.5.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 2002-140, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 153.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the County Stormwater Policy by reference for
the development or improvement of any real property which is located wholly or
partially within the corporation limits of the town. This chapter shall also
apply to the proposed installation or construction of any storm sewer, drainage
pipe, drainage tile, channel, swale, detention basin or any other stormwater
management structure or system to carry, control, convey or detain stormwater
on, upon or from any real property which is located wholly or partially within
the corporation limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 2002-140, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 153.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The administration and enforcement of the policy for and within the
town is hereby reserved unto and reposed in the Town Council. All filings and
applications for permits or approvals of proposed developments, improvements or
construction regulated by this chapter shall be done in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town, who shall refer the same to the Town Council for
its consideration and action.
   (B)   All references to the “County Drainage Board” in the County Stormwater
Policy shall be deemed to refer to and mean the “Town Council” for the purposes
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 2002-140, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 153.04 PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The procedures and requirements of the County Stormwater Policy shall, to
the extent consistent with this chapter, apply to proposed developments,
improvements or construction regulated by this chapter. In addition to the
information requirements contained in § 6-105-7 of the County Stormwater
Policy, the following additional requirements shall be met.
   (A)   In addition to the detailed materials, plans and design computations
to be provided with any application, a design report addressed to the town and
signed by a state licensed professional engineer or a state registered land
surveyor shall be submitted with the application.
   (B)   The design report shall contain each of the following:
      (1)   A brief description of the scope of the work;
      (2)   An index containing a reference to each of the items required in §
6-105-7 of the County Stormwater Policy;
      (3)   A simple sketch plan of the improvements indicating the relative
locations of storm sewers, detention basins, outlets and other major
improvements;
      (4)   Assumptions made in the design of the drainage features;
      (5)   A narrative explanation of the adequacy and capacities of all
drainage outlets;
      (6)   A narrative explanation of any special controls, such as weirs or
orifices;
      (7)   Specific identification and justification of any proposed
deviations or variances from the requirements of this chapter; and
      (8)   Disclosure of any and all uncertainties or potential issues which
are beyond the control of the design professional.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 2002-140, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 153.05 SUBSTANTIVE VARIATION.
   The requirement of a safety ledge contained in subsection (3) of Section H,
“Detention Basin Design Requirements,” as contained in the County Storm Water
Policy is replaced by the following:
“(3) A safety ledge ten (10) feet in width is required and must be installed in
all ponds from the water’s edge at a depth of one (1) foot. In addition, a
maintenance ledge twelve (12) to eighteen (18) inches above the permanent water
line shall be provided. The slope between the two ledges shall be 10:1 and be
covered with a material such as stone or rip-rap which will prevent erosion due
to wave action.”
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 2002-140, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 153.06 PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.
   Copies of the County Stormwater Policy and of this chapter shall be
available for public inspection and copying at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 2002-140, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 153.07 PERMIT AND BOND.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      PUBLIC STORMWATER SYSTEM. Stormwater management pipes and structures paid
for with public funds and located within rights of way or easements of the
town.
      TOWN. The Town of Mulberry, Indiana.
   (B)   Stormwater connection permits.
      (1)   No person shall discharge directly or indirectly into the public
stormwater system without the town having had issued a stormwater connection
permit for the real estate and without the real estate having actually been
connected to the town’s public stormwater system in accordance with the
limitations noted on the stormwater connection permit, which may include, but
not be limited to, an expiration date, a mandatory open ditch inspection and
the dedication of public sewer mains to be used, and compliance with other
terms, conditions and rules of the town, unless the Council has authorized
otherwise.
      (2)   A stormwater connection permit issued for the real estate shall be
valid for one year from the date of its issuance in order for the user to make
an approved physical connection to the public stormwater system.
      (3)   A fee of $50 shall be paid to the town before the issuance of a
stormwater connection permit. Said fee shall be received as revenue of the
Stormwater Fund in the town’s sewage utility. If a permit has been cancelled,
rescinded or terminated, a fee of $150 shall be paid to the town before such
permit may be reinstated.
      (4)   A performance bond in the minimum penal amount of $15,000, issued
by a corporate surety authorized to do business in the state, shall be
furnished in advance of performing any work under a stormwater connection
permit.
      (5)   The form of the permit and bond required under this section shall
be prescribed or approved by the Council. The Council may delegate
administration of this section to one or more officers or employees of the
town.
(Ord. 212-2016, passed 9-13-2016) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforceable by the Town Council, in the name of
the town.
   (B)   Any person who causes to be constructed or installed, or commences to
construct or install, any development, improvement or structure in violation of
this chapter shall be subject upon adjudication thereof to a civil penalty not
to exceed $300. Each day that a violation exists or continues shall constitute
a separate violation.
   (C)   The penalties herein shall apply separately to the owner, tenant,
contractor, agent or any other person who violates, participates in,
perpetuates or maintains the violation.
   (D)   Any building, structure or land improvement constructed or installed
in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and, as
such, shall be subject to abatement under any statute or ordinance then in
effect.
   (E)   The remedies and penalties herein provided shall be deemed cumulative
and the exercise or prosecution of any remedy or violation hereunder shall
neither exclude nor preclude the exercise of any other right, right of action
or remedy available to the town under any other ordinance or any other law of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. 2002-140, passed 5-14-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS, DEANNEXATIONS
      
III.   STREET VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   SUBDIVISION AND ZONING AMENDMENTS
      
VI.   FUNDS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving a street lighting contract with Public Service
9        - -         Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Revamping the street lighting contract with Public Service
24       - -         Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Approving a public service contract with Public Service
29       - -         Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Approving a public service contract with Public Service
46       - -         Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Approving a street lighting contract with Public Service
58       12-10-1968  Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Approving an electric energy contract with Public Service
59       5-11-1971   Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Approving a street lighting contract with Public Service
83(A)    8-23-1976   Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Granting a cable system franchise to Mulberry Cooperative
149-2005 8-9-2005    Telephone Company, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                    
 
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS, DEANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexing Lots 59 and 60 in Maple Grove Addition, also
67            8-8-1972    known as Maple Grove First Addition
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Annexing real estate composed of four tracts, 47.6121
70            4-10-1973   acres, plus 29.8922 acres, plus 26.3360 acres, plus
                          3.2333 acres of land situated outside to town limits
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Deannexing real estate beginning at a point that is
                          20 feet north of the southwest corner of the east
71            6-5-1973    half of the southeast quarter of Section 17, Township
                          22 North, Range 2 West, of Second Principal Meridian
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Annexing 47.6121 acres, 29.8922 acres, 26.3360 acres,
82            8-12-1975   3.2333 acres and 5.4350 acres of land situated
                          outside to town limits
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Annexing adjacent and contiguous territory (see
98            1-11-1994   Exhibit A attached to ordinance listed herein)
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Annexing adjacent and contiguous territory (see
100           4-12-1994   Exhibit A attached to ordinance listed herein)
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Adopting a written fiscal plan for provision of
Res. -        10-8-1996   services to west Wyandotte Street
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Annexing adjacent and contiguous territory (see
1996-111      10-8-1996   Exhibit A attached to ordinance listed herein)
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                          Annexing adjacent and contiguous territory (see
1996-112      11-12-1996  Exhibit A attached to ordinance listed herein)
                          (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                         
 
TABLE III: STREET VACATIONS, CLOSINGS AND NAMING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Closing the street north of the Madison Township School, beginning at the
      9-11-  intersection of West 1st Street and South Glick Street for one block to the
33    1956   intersection of West 1st Street and South Main Street from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00
             p.m., Monday through Friday, during the school term
             (Prior Code, TSO Table III)
150-  2-10-  Vacating part of an alley adjoining the south boundary line of Lot 16 in
2004  2004   Squire Rutan’s Addition
             (Prior Code, TSO Table III)
151-  2-10-  Vacating an alley which abuts the west boundary of Lot 16 in Squire Rutan’s
2004  2004   Addition, from Perrin Street to the south boundary line of Lot 16
             (Prior Code, TSO Table III)
155-  12-14- Vacating an unimproved street between Lots 14 and 15 in College Park Addition
2004  2004   (Prior Code, TSO Table III)
2020- 5-19-  Renaming East Fourth Street to East Madison Street
235   2020
             Vacating a portion of an alley being part of the east-west alley that lies
2023- 7-11-  between and abuts the north of Lot 117 in the Maple Grove Addition, and abuts
277   2023   the south of Lot 116, as the same is recorded in Plat Record 2 (new), page
             196
            
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Granting an easement for a strip of land five feet in
2006-1729 4-10-2006   uniform width adjoining and along the entire west
                      boundary of Lot 8 in Marty-Ellison Addition, Phase II
                      (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
                      Granting an easement for a strip of land five feet in
2006-1730 4-10-2006   uniform width adjoining and along the entire east
                      boundary of Lot 9 in Marty-Ellison Addition, Phase II
                      (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
                     
 
TABLE V: SUBDIVISION AND ZONING AMENDMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
108      10-10- Amending the county’s Unified Zoning Ordinance
         1995   (Prior Code, TSO Table V)
126-2000 4-11-  Amending the county’s Unified Subdivision Control Ordinance
         2000   (Prior Code, TSO Table V)
127-2000 4-11-  Amending the county’s Unified Zoning Ordinance
         2000   (Prior Code, TSO Table V)
233-2020 1-14-  Amending the county’s Unified Development Ordinance
         2020
234-2020 1-14-  Amending the county’s Unified Development Ordinance
         2020
               
 
TABLE VI: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
152-2004 9-14-2004   Establishes the Rainy Day Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 34.15)
128-2000 6-13-2000   Establishes the Fire Station Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 34.16)
178-2010 6-8-2010    Public Safety LOIT Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 34.17)
189-2013 2-12-2013   Establishes the Park Nonreverting Capital Fund
207-2016 2-9-2016    Repealing the Fire Station Fund
211-2016 6-14-2016   Establishes the LOIT Special Distribution Fund
221-2018 5-1-2018    Establishes the Rental Registration and Inspection Fund
236-2020 9-8-2020    Establishes the Park Improvement Donation Fund
2021-242 3-9-2021    Establishes the Real Property Improvement Donation Fund
2021-243 4-13-2021   Establishes the Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund
2022-067 10-17-2022  Amends the LOIT Special Distribution Fund
2022-274 12-20-2022  Establishes the Opioid Settlement Unrestricted Fund and
                     the Opioid Settlement Restricted Fund
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
 
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites               Code Section
1-1-1-5                  10.04
1-1-1-7                  10.12
1-1-1-8                  10.06
1-1-4-5                  10.05
1-1-5-1                  10.11
1-1-6-1                  10.08
4-21.5-3-7               150.30
5-3-1-1 et seq.          33.01
5-22                     30.04
8-1.5-3-8                50.04
9-13-2 et seq.           92.01
9-13-2-6                 70.03
9-13-2-69.7              73.050
9-18.1-2-11              70.99
9-18.1-4-4               70.99
9-18.1-4-5               70.99
9-18.1-11-2              70.99
9-18.1-14-1—9-18.1-14-173.071
9-18.1-14-2              73.999
9-18.1-14-5              73.999
9-18.1-14-10             73.999
9-18.1-14-11             73.999
9-19-10-8                70.99
9-19-11-2                70.99
9-21-5-2                 70.99
9-21-8-14                70.99
9-21-8-23                70.99
9-21-8-32                70.99
9-21-8-43                70.99
9-21-8-52                70.99
9-21-8-59                70.99
9-21-10-13               70.99
9-21-11-14               70.99
9-21-12-1                70.99
9-21-16-7                70.99
9-22-1                   92.06
9-22-1 et seq.           92.01
9-24-1-1                 70.99
9-24-7-6                 70.99
9-24-13-5                70.99
9-30-3-6                 73.999;
                         90.06
14-8-2-185               73.021
14-16-1-1— 14-16-1-33  73.071
14-16-1-4                73.021
14-16-1-5                73.021
14-16-1-6                73.021
14-16-1-20               73.022
14-16-1-22               73.020
14-16-1-29               73.999
16-32-3-1.5              90.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.         91.02
22-9-7-6                 90.01
22-9.5-1 et seq.         91.01
22-9.5-2-2               91.02
22-9.5-2-3               91.02
22-9.5-2-4               91.02
22-9.5-2-8               91.02
22-9.5-2-11              91.02
22-9.5-2-13              91.02
22-9.5-3                 91.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.         91.09
22-9.5-4-8               91.10
22-9.5-5                 91.02
22-9.5-5-1               91.03
22-9.5-6                 91.02;
                         91.10
22-9.5-6-4               91.02
22-13-1                  150.15
22-13-2-7                150.30
22-13-2-7(b)             150.18
22-15-3-1                150.21
22-15-4                  150.19
25-34.1                  91.03
26-1-3.1-104             33.03
31-37-3-3.5              130.01
31-37-3-4                130.01
32-33-10                 74.08
35-44-1-3                30.04
                         30.03;
36-1-3                   73.020;
                         95.01;
                         152.01
36-1-3-6                 30.04
36-1-3-8(a)(10)          10.99
36-1-6                   152.01
36-1-6-2                 152.05
36-1-12                  30.04
36-1-20-4.1(c)           151.04
36-1-21                  30.04—
                         30.06
36-5-2-4.1               31.01
36-5-2-4.1(j)            31.01
36-5-4-12                33.02
36-7-2-9                 150.15
36-7-9                   32.03;
                         150.01
36-7-9-1 et seq.         151.04
36-7-9-2                 150.01
36-7-9-16                151.04
36-7-9-25                151.04
36-7-12-1 et seq.        32.01
36-8-3-20                32.02
36-9-28.5                153.01
                         
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code       2023 Code
30.01            30.01
30.02            30.02
30.03            30.03
30.04            30.04
30.05            30.05
30.06            30.06
30.99            30.99
31.01            31.01
31.15            31.15
31.16            31.16
31.17            31.17
31.18            31.18
31.19            31.19
31.20            31.20
31.21            31.21
31.22            31.22
31.23            31.23
31.24            31.24
32.01            32.01
32.02            32.02
33.01            30.08
34.01            33.01
34.02            33.02
34.03            33.03
34.15            TSO Table VI
34.16            TSO Table VI
34.17            TSO Table VI
50.01            50.01
50.02            50.02
50.03            50.03
50.04            50.04
51.01            50.01
51.02            51.02
51.03            51.03
51.04            51.04
51.05            51.05
51.06            51.06
51.07            51.07
51.08            51.08
51.99            51.99
70.01            70.01
70.02            70.02
70.03            70.03
70.04            70.04
70.05            70.05
70.06            70.06
70.07            70.07
70.08            70.08
70.09            70.09
70.10            70.10
70.99            70.99
71.01            71.01
71.02            71.02
71.03            71.03
71.04            71.04
71.05            71.05
71.06            71.06
71.07            71.07
71.08            71.08
71.20            71.35
71.21            71.36
71.22            71.37
71.23            71.38
71.24            71.39
71.25            71.40
71.26            71.41
71.27            71.42
71.28            71.43
71.40            71.20
71.41            71.20
71.55            71.21
71.56            71.21
71.70            71.23
71.85            71.22
71.86            71.22
72.01            72.01
72.02            72.02
72.03            72.03
72.04            72.04
72.05            72.05
72.06            72.06
72.07            72.07
73.01            73.070
73.03            73.071
73.05            73.072
73.07            73.073
73.08            73.074
73.09            73.075
73.99            73.999
74.01            73.001
74.02            73.002
74.03            73.003
74.04            73.004
74.05            73.005
74.15            73.020
74.16            73.021
74.17            73.022
74.18            73.023
74.30            73.035
74.31            73.036
74.32            73.037
74.50            73.050
74.51            73.051
74.52            73.052
74.53            73.053
74.54            73.054
74.55            73.055
74.56            73.056
74.99            73.999
75.01            74.01
75.02            74.02
75.03            74.03
75.04            74.04
75.05            74.05
75.06            74.06
75.07            74.07
75.08            74.08
75.09            74.09
75.10            74.10
75.11            74.11
75.12            74.12
75.99            74.99
76.01            75.01
76.02            75.02
76.03            75.03
76.04            75.04
76.05            75.05
76.06            75.06
76.07            75.07
76.08            75.08
76.09            75.09
76.22            75.26
76.23            75.27
76.24            75.28
76.35            75.40
76.36            75.41
76.37            75.42
76.38            75.43
76.50            75.55
76.51            75.56
76.52            75.57
76.99            75.99
90.01            90.01
90.02            90.02
90.03            90.03
90.04            90.04
90.05            90.05
90.06            90.06
90.07            90.07
90.08            90.08
90.09            90.09
90.99            90.99
91.01            91.01
91.02            91.02
91.03            91.03
91.04            91.04
91.05            91.05
91.06            91.06
91.07            91.07
91.08            91.08
91.09            91.09
91.10            91.10
92.01            92.01
92.02            92.02
92.03            92.03
92.04            92.04
92.05            92.05
92.07            92.06
93.01            93.01
93.02            93.02
93.03            93.03
93.04            93.04
93.05            93.05
93.06            93.06
93.07            93.07
93.20            93.20
93.21            93.21
93.22            93.22
93.23            93.23
93.24            93.24
93.99            93.99
94.01            152.01
94.02            152.01
94.03            152.02
94.04            152.03
94.05            152.04
94.06            152.05
94.07            152.06
94.08            152.07
94.20            152.20
94.21            152.21
94.22            152.22
94.23            152.23
94.30            152.35
94.31            152.36
94.32            152.37
94.33            152.38
94.34            152.39
94.99            152.99
95.01            94.01
95.99            94.99
96.01            95.01
96.02            95.02
96.03            95.03
96.04            95.04
96.05            95.05
96.06            95.06
96.07            95.07
96.99            95.99
Ch. 77, Sch. I   Ch. 77, Sch. I
Ch. 77, Sch. II  Ch. 77, Sch. II
Ch. 77, Sch. III Ch. 77, Sch. III
Ch. 77, Sch. IV  Ch. 77, Sch. IV
Ch. 77, Sch. V   Ch. 77, Sch. V
Ch. 77, Sch. VI  Ch. 77, Sch. VI
Ch. 77, Sch. VII Ch. 77, Sch. VII
Ch. 78, Sch. I   Ch. 78, Sch. I
131.01           130.01
131.02           130.01
131.03           130.01
131.04           130.01
131.05           130.01
132.01           130.02
132.99           130.99
150.01           150.02
151.01           150.01
151.15           150.15
151.16           150.16
151.17           150.17
151.18           150.18
151.19           150.19
151.20           150.20
151.21           150.21
151.22           150.22
151.23           150.23
151.24           150.24
151.25           150.25
151.26           150.26
151.27           150.27
151.28           150.28
151.29           150.29
151.30           150.30
151.31           150.31
151.99           150.99
152.01           153.01
152.02           153.02
152.03           153.03
152.04           153.04
152.05           153.05
152.07           153.06
152.99           153.99
SO Table I       TSO Table I
SO Table II      TSO Table II
SO Table III     TSO Table III
SO Table IV      TSO Table IV
SO Table V       TSO Table V
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-8-1996   TSO Table II
-        9-23-2009   30.01
-        6-12-2012   30.05
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
9         - -         TSO Table I
22        - -         Ch. 76, Sch. IV
24        - -         TSO Table I
29        - -         TSO Table I
46        - -         TSO Table I
88        - -         70.99;
                      75.99
                      93.01—
91        - -         93.07;
                      93.99
                      74.01—
2009-01   - -         74.12;
                      74.99
2         3-9-1948    Ch. 76, Sch. I
17        6-13-1950   Ch. 77, Sch. I
                      152.20—
21        10-14-1952  152.23;
                      152.99
23        6-9-1953    130.02
33        9-11-1956   TSO Table III
35        9-10-1957   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
36        4-8-1958    Ch. 76, Sch. IV
38        2-10-1959   Ch. 76, Sch. VII
45        2-9-1960    Ch. 76, Sch. I
10        5-13-1960   10.15
47        4-11-1961   Ch. 77, Sch. I
58        12-10-1968  TSO Table I
15        1-1-1970    10.15
59        5-11-1971   TSO Table I
60        7-13-1971   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
67        8-8-1972    TSO Table II
68        8-8-1972    93.99
70        4-10-1973   TSO Table II
71        6-5-1973    TSO Table II
82        8-12-1975   TSO Table II
83(A)     8-23-1976   TSO Table I
                      73.070;
90        2-13-1979   73.072—
                      73.075
20        1-1-1980    10.15
                      70.01—
                      70.10;
                      71.01—
                      71.08;
                      71.20—
                      71.23;
                      71.35—
                      71.43;
                      72.01—
                      72.07;
                      73.001—
                      73.005;
                      75.02;
                      75.03;
- -       12-9-1980   75.05—
                      75.08;
                      75.26—
                      75.28;
                      75.40—
                      75.43;
                      75.55—
                      75.57;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. I;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. II;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. III;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. IV;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. V;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. VI;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. I
84        4-8-1986    Ch. 77, Sch. I
                      152.01—
90        8-8-1989    152.07;
                      152.99
95        2-9-1993    32.02
96        3-8-1993    150.02
98        1-11-1994   TSO Table II
100       4-12-1994   TSO Table II
101       8-9-1994    94.01;
                      94.99
102       8-9-1994    150.01
108       10-10-1995  TSO Table V
1996-111  10-8-1996   TSO Table II
1996-112  11-12-1996  TSO Table II
110       9-10-1996   33.02
1997-118  6-10-1997   32.01
1997-118  10-14-1997  30.04
1997-119  10-14-1997  30.08
1997-121  10-14-1997  30.03,
                      30.99
                      150.15—
1998-122  12-8-1998   150.31;
                      150.99
                      90.01—
1999-123  2-2-1999    90.07;
                      90.09;
                      90.99
126-2000  4-11-2000   TSO Table V
127-2000  4-11-2000   TSO Table V
128-2000  6-13-2000   TSO Table VI
129-2000  7-11-2000   Ch. 77, Sch. I
2001-130  8-14-2001   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
2002-140  5-14-2002   153.01—
                      153.06
2002-138  8-13-2002   31.01
2002-134  9-10-2002   33.01
2002-137  10-15-2002  130.01
144-2003  10-14-2003  73.020—
                      73.023
                      95.01—
145-2003  10-14-2003  95.07;
                      95.99
146-2003  12-9-2003   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
150-2004  2-10-2004   TSO Table III
151-2004  2-10-2004   TSO Table III
152-2004  9-14-2004   TSO Table VI
154-2004  11-11-2004  73.035
155-2004  12-14-2004  TSO Table III
156-2005  1-11-2005   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
149-2005  8-9-2005    TSO Table I
2006-1729 4-10-2006   TSO Table IV
2006-1730 4-10-2006   TSO Table IV
158-2006  4-11-2006   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
                      93.20—
157-2006  7- -2006    93.24;
                      93.99
                      92.01—
160-2006  11-14-2006  92.03;
                      92.05
161-2006  5-8-2007    31.16—
                      31.24
162-2008  6-17-2008   30.02
164-2008  6-17-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
                      50.01;
165-2008  6-17-2008   51.02—
                      51.08;
                      51.99
167-2008  9-9-2008    73.036;
                      73.037
168-2008  9-9-2008    30.08
166-2008  10-14-2008  50.04
170-2008  10-14-2008  50.01
171-2009  5-12-2009   90.06;
                      90.99
172-2009  12-15-2009  50.03
175-2010  1-12-2010   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
                      93.03;
176-2010  4-11-2010   93.06;
                      93.99
178-2010  6-8-2010    TSO Table VI
-         8-14-2010   30.08
                      90.01—
2010-179  10-26-2010  90.09;
                      90.99
180-2010  11-9-2010   33.03
184-2012  6-12-2012   Ch. 76, Sch. I
187-2012  11-13-2012  152.35—
                      152.39
189-2013  2-12-2013   TSO Table VI
191-2013  4-9-2013    93.06
                      52.01—
192-2013  10-8-2013   52.05;
                      52.99
195-2013  11-12-2013  33.01
196-2013  12-10-2013  30.06
199-2015  6-1-2015    30.07
201-2015  8-11-2015   93.06
202-2015  8-11-2015   94.02
207-2016  2-9-2016    TSO Table VI
208-2016  4-12-2016   33.04
211-2016  6-14-2016   TSO Table VI
212-2016  9-13-2016   153.07
215-2017  1-10-2017   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
216-2017  2-14-2017   50.02
                      151.01—
221-2018  5-1-2018    151.05;
                      151.99;
                      TSO Table VI
                      110.01—
220-2018  6-12-2018   110.04;
                      110.99
                      73.050—
223-2018  8-14-2018   73.056;
                      73.999
224-2018  8-14-2018   33.05
222-2018  9-11-2018   34.01—
                      34.06
227-2018  9-11-2018   Ch. 77, Sch. I
231-2019  10-8-2019   93.03
233-2020  1-14-2020   TSO Table V
234-2020  1-14-2020   TSO Table V
2020-235  5-19-2020   TSO Table III
236-2020  9-8-2020    TSO Table VI
2020-239  11-18-2020  32.03
238-2021  1-12-2021   50.05
2021-242  3-9-2021    TSO Table VI
2021-243  4-13-2021   TSO Table VI
                      75.09;
241-2021  5-11-2021   75.10;
                      75.25
2022-245  5-10-2022   71.09;
                      71.99
2022-047  10-17-2022  Ch. 77, Sch. I
2022-048  10-17-2022  72.08
2022-049  10-17-2022  70.03;
                      70.99
2022-050  10-17-2022  32.01;
                      32.02
2022-051  10-17-2022  73.999
2022-052  10-17-2022  91.01—
                      91.10
2022-053  10-17-2022  50.04
2022-055  10-17-2022  75.01;
                      75.04
                      92.04;
2022-056  10-17-2022  92.06;
                      92.99
                      50.01;
2022-057  10-17-2022  51.04;
                      51.09;
                      51.99
2022-058  10-17-2022  73.071;
                      73.999
2022-059  10-17-2022  90.01
                      93.03;
2022-060  10-17-2022  93.05;
                      93.06;
                      93.24
2022-061  10-17-2022  51.99
                      90.09;
2022-063  10-17-2022  90.10;
                      90.99
2022-065  10-17-2022  Ch. 76, Sch. V
2022-066  10-17-2022  152.36
2022-067  10-17-2022  TSO Table VI
2022-068  10-17-2022  30.07
2022-069  10-17-2022  150.02
2022-070  10-17-2022  130.99
2022-071  10-17-2022  130.01
2022-274  12-20-2022  TSO Table VI
2023-275  5-2-2023    50.01
2023-276  6-13-2023   93.06;
                      93.99
2023-277  7-11-2023   TSO Table III
2023-278  9-12-2023   50.06
                     
 
 
