TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-13 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Services, Pamphlet #
3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
Council
Council
Marcy Kauffman  President
Jerry Colanese  Vice-President
Will Short      Member
Alison Abbot    Member
Nancy Pemberton Member
                
Clerk
Julie Brown     Clerk-Treasurer
Attorney
Andrea Halpin
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.17   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.18   Two copies of code to be maintained by Clerk-Treasurer
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “New
Carlisle Town Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between 2 or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer and Fiscal Officer of the Town of
New Carlisle.
      CODE. The New Carlisle Town Code.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, and shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council, the legislation board of the town government,
formerly known as the Board of Trustees.
      COUNTY. The County of St. Joseph, State of Indiana.
      ET SEQ. The Latin phrase meaning “and the following.”
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.C. Refers to state law found in the Indiana Code.
      MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUST and SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
      OATH. An affirmation of declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words “swear”
and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or
a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where any provision shall require any act
to be done in a REASONABLE TIME or REASONABLE NOTICE to be given any person,
the reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean the time only as may be
necessary in the prompt execution of the duty or compliance with the notice.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding
parkways.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. To embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, viaducts,
and all other public highways in the town.
      TENANT. The words TENANT and OCCUPANT apply to a building or land and
shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupied
the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of New Carlisle, Indiana or the area within the
territorial limits of the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana, and the territory, if
any, outside the TOWN over which the TOWN has jurisdiction or control by virtue
of any constitutional or statutory provision.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (1992 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Town Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1992 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1992 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless otherwise expressly provided, an ordinance shall take effect when
passed according to I.C. 36-4-6-14(a) or I.C. 36-4-56-14(c); however, an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must be published
pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-14(b) or I.C. 36-4-6-14(c).
(1992 Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.18 TWO COPIES OF CODE TO BE MAINTAINED BY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Two copies of the New Carlisle Town Code shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, preserved in looseleaf form. It shall be the
express duty of the Clerk-Treasurer, or someone authorized by him or her, to
insert in their designated places all amendments or ordinances which indicate
the intention of the Town Council to make the same a part of the code when the
same shall have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from the
code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the Town
Council. These copies of the code shall be available to all persons desiring to
examine the same and shall be considered the official code of the town.
(Ord. 624, § 5, passed 9-27-1983)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to change or
amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the code, or to insert
or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the code, any ordinance, or the law of the
town to be misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm, or corporation violating
this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of the code.
(Ord. 624, § 6, passed 9-27-1983)
(1992 Code, § 1-12)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates a provision of this town
code, upon conviction, shall be subject to the following penalty:
      (1)   A fine for the first offense, not exceeding $50 if paid within 30
days of the date of the ticket or offense, whichever is later, to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation if not paid
within 30 days; and
      (3)   A fine of not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent
violations.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
town code for which the penalty provision in division (A) above is not
specified or to which this penalty provision is specified, upon conviction,
shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations.
   (C)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Cross-reference:
   Tabulation of these fines, see Fee Schedule,
Ch. 98
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town Seal
   
11.02   Time zone
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of the Town Seal and affix
it to documents and instruments as required.
   (B)   The Town Seal of New Carlisle shall be as follows:
      “Town of New Carlisle, Indiana” inscribed across the top half of the
circle, “Inc. Jan. 3, A.D. 1867” inscribed across the bottom half of the
circle, and “Corporate Seal” inscribed across the middle.
   (C)   The Town Seal is depicted as follows:
(1992 Code, § 1-10)
§ 11.02 TIME ZONE.
   The Town Council hereby endorses and supports St. Joseph County to be placed
in the Central time zone for the best coordination of the citizens of New
Carlisle between employment, school, and town business.
(Res. 05-08-09-01, passed 8-9-2005)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE REGULATIONS
      
35.   TOWN EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
37.   GENERAL FINANCES
      
38.   PURCHASING
      
39.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Town membership and interlocal cooperation
   
30.02   Fees for copies
   
30.03   Policy statement on the Americans with Disabilities Act
   
30.04   Community ambulance service
   
30.05   Capitalization policy
   
30.06   Public announcement system
   
30.07   User fee for vehicle inspections
   
30.08   Internal control system
Records Retention Schedule
   
30.35   Records
Disaster Recovery Plan and Logical Security Procedures
   
30.60   Disaster Recovery Plan
   
30.61   Logical security
Cross-references:
   License fees, see
Ch. 110,
Ch. 98
   Permit fees, see
Ch. 110,
Ch. 98
   User fees for fingerprinting cards, criminal history background checks, see
§
110.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TOWN MEMBERSHIP AND INTERLOCAL COOPERATION.
   (A)   Payment of dues for town memberships.
      (1)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to
provide membership for the town, its elected and appointed officials, and its
boards, council, departments, or agencies, in local, regional, state, and
national associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature which
have as their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
      (2)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to
pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the town belongs.
(1992 Code, § 2-150) (Ord. 604, passed - -1982)
   (B)   Joint cooperative actions.
      (1)   The town, through its Town Council, is authorized to enter into
agreements and become a member of the Michiana Area Council of Governments
(MACOG), for joint and cooperative action. (Res. passed 3-19-1974)
      (2)   The town, through its Town Council, is authorized to participate in
the construction of a fire station in conjunction with Olive Township, of St.
Joseph County, and Hudson Township, of LaPorte County, Indiana.
(Ord. 528, passed - -1979)
(1992 Code, § 2-151)
      (3)   The town, through its Town Council, is authorized to establish the
Olive Township-New Carlisle Fire Protection Territory.
(Ord. 1377, passed 3-19-2019; Am. Ord. 1424, passed 3-28-2022)
      (4)   The town, through its Town Council, adopts the St. Joseph County
Multi-hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. 19-03-19-01, passed 3-19-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund established, see §
37.24
§ 30.02 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Incident report fees.
      (1)   Duplication of police, case, or other reports including accident
reports, prepared by the Marshal’s Department, shall be charged pursuant to the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   Fees collected for such service can and shall be deposited in the
Continuing Education Fund and appropriated by the Town Marshal.
(1992 Code, § 2-180) (Ord. 819, passed 12-17-1991)
   (B)   User fee for photocopies.
      (1)   The fee shall be pursuant to the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Ord. 912, § 1, passed 1-23-1996)
      (2)   Town employees shall not be charged this fee if the purpose of the
photocopies are to be used within their scope of work (employee personnel
files, health insurance, and the like).
(Ord. 912, § 2, passed 1-23-1996)
(1992 Code, § 2-181)
§ 30.03 POLICY STATEMENT ON THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   Policy statement.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to provide equal access to all town-
sponsored services, programs, and activities for citizens and employees with
disabilities. Equal employment opportunity will be provided for all qualified
individuals with a disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      (2)   The town will make reasonable modifications in policies, practices,
and procedures to ensure equal access; will make every reasonable effort to
provide auxiliary aids and services to provide effective communication; and
will operate its programs so that, when viewed as a whole, those programs are
readily accessible to, and useable by, individuals with disabilities.
(1992 Code, § 2-190)
   (B)   ADA Coordinator. Jerry Cooper, Department of Public Works of the town
is designated as the ADA Coordinator for the town.
   (C)   Administrative procedure.
      (1)   A town ADA Compliance Committee has been formed to assist in making
reasonable accommodation decisions, provide a forum for reviewing grievances,
and act as a source of information on ADA for the town.
      (2)   Questions concerning general ADA policy, reasonable accommodations,
and grievances by citizens or employees not resolved by departments shall be
directed to the ADA Coordinator for resolution. The ADA Coordinator shall
resolve issues/grievances, convene the ADA Compliance Committee to hear appeals
of citizen grievances, or simply make recommendations to departments or the
Town Council as appropriate.
      (3)   In order to be qualified for a town position, an applicant must
have the skills, experience, and knowledge as reflected by the essential
functions of the position description with or without reasonable accommodation.
Inquiries regarding preemployment or employment procedures, interviews, and
hiring shall be directed to the ADA Coordinator for resolution. Department
head/supervisor training will be conducted by the ADA Coordinator as required
to ensure compliance with all aspects of Title I of the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
      (4)   All departments are responsible for continually monitoring and
evaluating current policies, procedures, facilities, and programs to achieve
and maintain compliance with this directive and in turn the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA).
(1992 Code, § 2-192)
   (D)   Americans with Disabilities Act grievance procedure. The Town of New
Carlisle Grievance Procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy
of which is attached to Res. 18-05-08-01, is adopted as the grievance procedure
for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in
the provision of services, activities, programs or benefits by the town.
   (E)   Notice.  
      (1)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy of
which is attached to Res. 18-05-08-01, is adopted as the Town of New Carlisle
Notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (2)   In compliance with the Federal and state laws as set forth above,
the Town Council resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA
Coordinator, notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Town of
New Carlisle Grievance Procedure under the Americans with Dsiabilities Act on
its website and at such other locations as may be determined from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 2-193) (Ord. 892, passed 1-10-1995; Am. Res. 13-01-22-01, passed
1-22-2013; Am. Res. 14-09-23-01, passed 9-23-2014; Am. Res. 16-03-08-01, passed
3-8-2016; Am. Res. 18-05-08-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 30.04 COMMUNITY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
(A)   Rates:
 
Category          Per Occurrence
BLS Non-emergency As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                  Ch. 98
BLS Emergency     As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                  Ch. 98
ALS Emergency     As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                  Ch. 98
Loaded mileage    As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                  Ch. 98
 
   (B)   These rates will be reviewed periodically and may be revised by the 3
governmental entities and shall be subject to and in compliance with all rules,
regulations, and limitations of federal and state law.
   (C)   The ambulance service may accept assignment of insurance carrier
payments, including Medicare and Medicaid, for ambulance services for all or
partial payment of the aforesaid charges. However, the acceptance of any
coverages shall not relieve the user of the ultimate responsibility for the
payment of the total amount of fees owed, provided that payments made to the
ambulance service by Medicaid and Medicare authorities shall be subject to all
existing rules, regulations and limitations of the federal and state law, and
the counties shall not require any payment not authorized pursuant to the law.
   (D)   When the ambulance service is used by a bona fide residence of the
Town of New Carlisle, Olive Township or Hudson Township, the resident shall be
billed only to the extent of applicable insurance coverage, including federal
and/or state health care programs. Any deductible or co-payment amount shall be
waived for the bona fide residents of the Town of New Carlisle, Olive Township,
or Hudson Township.
   (E)   When the ambulance service is used by an employee of a taxpaying
business located in Olive Township, Hudson Township, or the Town of New
Carlisle, who requires ambulance service while working on the taxpaying
business premises located in Olive Township, Hudson Township, or the Town of
New Carlisle, each employee shall be billed only to the extent of applicable
insurance coverage, including federal and/or state health care programs. Any
deductible or co-pay amount shall be waived for the employee.
   (F)   The ambulance service receives revenues from Olive Township, Hudson
Township, or the Town of New Carlisle property tax and/or local income taxes,
and the revenues shall be treated as payment for any otherwise applicable co-
pay or deductible amount due from the bona fide resident or the employee.
(1992 Code, § 6-12) (Ord. 1196, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1215, passed 6-23-
2009)
§ 30.05 CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Assets over $5,000 shall be capitalized.
   (B)   Assets with serial numbers shall be capitalized for dollar amounts of
$1,000 or greater.
   (C)   Depreciation shall begin in the month and year purchased.
   (D)   Fixed assets will be depreciated using the straight line method.
   (E)   Fixed assets under the $5,000 and the $1,000 threshold amounts
designated above shall be deleted from the current fixed assets listing.
   (F)   All electric and water meters and all hydrants shall be capitalized
regardless of cost.
   (G)   The following estimated useful lives may be used for a guide for
calculating depreciation expenses:
Description Estimated Life (Years)
Description                                       Estimated Life (Years)
Water Utilities
Springs and wells                                 100
Infiltration galleries and tunnels                100
Collecting conduits and reservoirs                75
Mains, cast iron:
4 in. or less                                     50
6 in.                                             65
8 to 10 in.                                       75
12 in. or over                                    100
Settling basins                                   50
Coagulating basins                                50
Filters                                           50
Internal combustion engines (diesel type)         25
Pumps                                             50
Stand pipes                                       50
Meters                                            30
Hydrants                                          50
Electron equipment                                10
General office equipment                          19
General shop equipment                            20
General store equipment                           20
Laboratory equipment                              16
General office furniture                          19
Electric Utilities
Transmission plant:
Structures and improvements                       45
Station equipment                                 28
Towers and fixtures                               50
Poles and fixtures                                33
Overhead conductors and devices                   50
Underground conduit                               75
Underground conductors and devices                40
Roads and trails                                  60
Distribution plant:
Structures and improvements                       45
Station equipment                                 28
Storage battery equipment                         20
Poles, towers and fixtures                        35
Overhead conductors and devices-wire-conduit pipe 40
Line transformers                                 28
Services                                          28
Meters                                            28
Installations on customers’ premises            25
Street lighting and signal systems                22
General plant:
Structures and improvements                       67
Office furniture and equipment                    19
Transportation equipment                          10
Electron equipment                                10
Stores equipment                                  25
Shop equipment                                    25
Laboratory equipment                              25
Tools and work equipment                          20
Communication equipment                           25
Miscellaneous equipment                           25
General office furniture                          19
Sewage Utilities
Structures and improvements:
Sewers                                            100
Lateral sewers                                    100
Pumping station                                   50
Preliminary treatment                             50
Primary treatment                                 50
Secondary treatment                               50
Sludge disposition                                8
General treatment                                 100
General office (share)                            50
General stores and garage                         50
Equipment:
Collection system                                 10
Pumping station                                   20
Preliminary treatment                             20
Secondary treatment                               20
Sludge disposition                                20
Electric equipment                                10
General treatment                                 10
General office (share)                            10
General shop and garage                           10
General office furniture                          19
 
(Res. 99-09-14-01, passed 9-14-1999; Am. Ord. 1302, passed 12-29-2014)
§ 30.06 PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Any request for rental of the public announcement system shall
be in writing and accompanied by a deposit as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, presented at least 14 days prior to date needed.
      (2)   Upon inspection of equipment by a member of the Park Board, the fee
shall be refunded to the renter.
   (B)   A nonrefundable rental fee shall be paid pursuant to the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   All proceeds from the rental of the public announcement system shall
be deposited in the Non- Reverting Park Fund (see §
37.11).
   (D)   This section shall become effective upon date of passage and legal
publication according to the laws of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1076, passed 7-10-2001)
§ 30.07 USER FEE FOR VEHICLE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The user fee per vehicle inspected shall be set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (B)   The user fee shall be deposited into the Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund (see §
37.07) by the town’s Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   Exempt from this fee shall be town residents.
   (D)   All fees deposited into this Fund are to be used in law enforcement
education as established by I.C. 5-2-8-2.
(Ord. 1209, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 30.08 INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM.
   The Town Council of the town states as follows:
   (A)   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including, but not limited to the police, fire, utilities (water, sewer, etc.),
economic development, parks;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
   (B)   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives
as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including by way of example budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash management
and planning among others.
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government including by way of example filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the other
filings with any governmental agency or official or information required to be
kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others.
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including by way of example following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance's forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT among others.
   (C)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the uniform internal control standards for Indiana
political subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
      (3)   Control activities.
      (4)   Information and communication.
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (D)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government:
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system.
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town's objectives.
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals.
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances.
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives.
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
         (b)   Management designs the town's information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town's
objectives.
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
   (F)   The town directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and compliance
objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability,
accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and
personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
   (G)   The town authorizes individuals with delegated approval authority
(elected officials, department heads) to review the current internal control
system of the town and adopt a policy for the future internal control system to
be effective after June 30, 2016 and perform an annual review, or more if
determined necessary for compliance with this chapter.
   (H)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town now and as modified in the future.
   (I)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the Federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the town fiscal
officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (J)   The town authorizes the individuals with delegated approval authority
(elected officials, department heads) to determine the position and person who
are the personnel referred to in divisions (H) and (I) above and notify, such
personnel.
   (K)   The legislative body will perform all the internal controls system
activities/duties. The legislative body may delegate authority and/or duties to
certain individuals.
   (L)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (M)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (N)   An elected or appointed official of town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
   (O)   This section may be implemented by any and all of the following
actions or such others as authorized by this Council (or the delegated
authority):
      (1)   Posting a copy of this chapter in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Res. 16-08-23-10, passed 9-27-2016)
RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE
§ 30.35 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep all town records on forms approved by
State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Town records shall be retained and disposed of pursuant to state
statute, as amended.
DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN AND LOGICAL SECURITY PROCEDURES
§ 30.60 DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN.
   (A)   Tape backup.
      (1)   Each night there is a tape backup of all programs on the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office computer system.
      (2)   Tape backup is rotated every day and is taken off-site every night
by an employee of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (3)   The tape backup should ensure the least amount of down time in case
of a disaster.
   (B)   Disk backup.
      (1)   Disk backups are taken of all programs in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office once a month.
      (2)   One of these disk back-ups is placed in a safe and the other is
taken off the work site by an employee of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (3)   At the end of the year, several disk back-ups are required. One is
placed on-site in safe. One is placed in town’s safe at Wells Fargo Bank, and 1
is taken off-site by an employee of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Forms. The Clerk-Treasurer will take a supply of critical forms off-
site in order to be able to function on a temporary basis.
   (D)   Hardware vendor.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office will contact the hardware vendor
immediately. The hardware vendor is as follows: Keystone Consulting Services,
Inc.
      (2)   Each employee of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall keep a copy of
the hardware vendor and telephone number off-site.
(Ord. 1055, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 30.61 LOGICAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Each employee in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office has his or her own user
identification passwords to provide sufficient access restrictions.
   (B)   Each employee in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office has the ability to
change his or her password every 30 days.
   (C)   Each password in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office must be different than
the previous 8 passwords. This ensures additional security.
(Ord. 1055, passed 12-12-2000)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Five-member Council
   
31.02   Abolishment of wards
   
31.03   Election of the Town Council
   
31.04   President of the Council
   
31.05   Four standing committees or commissions
   
31.06   Special committees
   
31.07   Powers of the Town Council
   
31.08   Compensation of the Town Council
Rules of Procedure
   
31.20   Quorum and votes to pass
   
31.21   Regular meetings
   
31.22   Special meetings
   
31.23   Order of business
   
31.24   Parliamentary procedure
   
31.25   Robert’s Rules of Order
Ordinances
   
31.35   Ordinances which amend the town code
   
31.36   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions
   
31.37   Recording and publishing of ordinances
   
Appendix A: Ordinance Format
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 FIVE-MEMBER COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council is the town legislative body.
   (B)   The Council consists of 5 members whose terms of office are 4 years,
beginning at 12:00 p.m. noon on January 1 after election and continuing until
successors are elected and qualified.
   (C)   Five Council members shall be elected from the town at large, and each
member is elected by the vote of the entire town.
(1992 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 940, § 1, passed 11-25-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Legislative districts, see I.C. 36-5-2-5
   Term of office of Council members, see I.C. 36-5-2-3
   Town Council, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 31.02 ABOLISHMENT OF WARDS.
   Town Legislative Body (Town Council) is hereby abolished and all members of
the legislative body (Town Council) shall be elected at large.
(1992 Code, § 3-2) (Ord. 940, § 2, passed 11-25-1997)
§ 31.03 ELECTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Commencing with the November 1998 election of the office of the Town
Council members for former Wards 1 and 3 shall be deemed Council members at
large seats and shall be elected for 4-year terms thereafter.
   (B)   Commencing with the November, 1999 election, the offices of the Town
Council members for former Wards 2, 4, and 5 shall also be deemed Council
member at large seats and shall be elected for 4-year terms thereafter.
   (C)   Town Council members shall reside within the town limits of the town.
(1992 Code, § 3-2.1) (Ord. 940, § 3, passed 11-25-1997)
§ 31.04 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall select at its first annual meeting 1 of its
members to be its President for a definite term which may not exceed his or her
term of office.
   (B)   The President is the Town Executive.
(1992 Code, § 3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Selection of a President, see I.C. 36-5-2-7
   Town Executive, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 31.05 FOUR STANDING COMMITTEES OR COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   Names of committees. At the first meeting of the Town Council it shall
be the duty of the President to appoint the following 4 standing committees or
commissions to serve until the reorganization of the Council after each
election:
      (1)   Park and Cemetery;
      (2)   Law Enforcement and Fire;
      (3)   Streets; and
      (4)   Utilities.
   (B)   Duties and powers. The standing committees or commissions shall have
the management and control of the affairs of the Department for which the
committee was established. It shall be the duty of each committee or commission
to report to the Town Council at any time the Council calls upon it to do so,
or when it is deemed necessary.
(1992 Code, § 3-4)
§ 31.06 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The President of the Council may appoint committees for special
purposes.
   (B)   Special committees shall expire when the purpose for which they were
appointed has been accomplished, or at such time as the Council may deem
appropriate.
(1992 Code, § 3-5)
§ 31.07 POWERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property, for the use of
the town;
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal; and
   (D)   Exercise all powers that are needed for the effective operation of
local governmental affairs.
(1992 Code, § 3-7)
Statutory reference:
   Home Rule powers of municipalities, see I.C. 36-1-3-1 through 36-1-3-9
   Powers of the legislative body, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
§ 31.08 COMPENSATION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of its own
members, as well as that of other town employees and officers.
   (B)   The compensation of an elected town officer may not be changed in the
year for which it is fixed, nor may it be reduced below the amount fixed for
the year 1980.
(1992 Code, § 3-16)
Statutory reference:
   Addresses the compensation for officers and employees, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.20 QUORUM AND VOTES TO PASS.
   (A)   A majority of all elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
   (B)   Passage of ordinances, orders, or resolutions shall be governed by
applicable state statutes.
(1992 Code, § 3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Majority, 2/3 and unanimous votes, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.4 through 36-5-2-9.8
   Definition of a quorum of the Council, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.2
§ 31.21 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Town Council shall hold its regular meetings on the first and third
Tuesdays of each month and at such hours as the Town Council may direct and
determine from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 3-8) (Ord. 547, passed - -1980; Am. Ord. 1375, § 1, passed 1-22-
2019)
§ 31.22 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Call by President or members of the Council. Special meetings may be
convened at any time other than the time fixed for regular meetings, upon call
of the President of the Town Council, or upon call of a majority of the members
of the Council:
      (1)   By reading the same to and within the hearing of all members of the
Council present in the town at the time the call is made;
      (2)   By leaving a copy thereof at any member’s last and usual place of
residence, in case he or she cannot be found; or
      (3)   By acknowledgment thereof by the Council member on the notice.
   (B)   Scope of business. At any special meeting the Council shall be limited
to transact business inserted in the call, unless it is business of which
notice by publication was not first required to be given. (1992 Code, § 3-9)
Statutory reference:
   Pertaining to special meetings, see I.C. 36-4-6-7
   Setting forth the Indiana Open Door Law or Sunshine Law, see I.C. 5-14-1.5-
1 through 5-14-1.5-7
§ 31.23 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The following order of business shall be observed at every regular
meeting of the Town Council, unless suspended by a majority vote of the
Council:
      (1)   Meeting called to order (7:00 p.m.);
      (2)   Minutes of previous meeting read or copies of minutes distributed
for approval;
      (3)   Recognition of visitors;
      (4)   Copies of financial report distributed;
      (5)   Reading of ordinances, resolutions, opening of bids;
      (6)   Old business;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Council member questions, reports, announcements;
      (9)   Clerk-Treasurer’s questions, reports, announcements;
      (10)   Claims presented and docket sheet presented; and
      (11)   Meeting adjourned.
   (B)   Persons wishing to have business placed on the agenda shall notify the
Clerk-Treasurer of the same by 1:00 p.m. on the Thursday prior to the next
regular meeting of the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 3-10) (Res. passed 12-22-1981)
§ 31.24 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Presentation of motions. When a motion has been made and seconded, the
Chair shall state it, or if in writing, cause it to be read by the Clerk-
Treasurer aloud before debate shall be allowed.
   (B)   Procedure for speaking. When any member is about to speak, he or she
shall address the Chair and, upon being recognized, shall confine himself or
herself to the question before the Council, avoiding all personalities.
   (C)   Transgression of rules; censure of member. If any member, in speaking,
or in any other manner, transgresses the rules of the Council, the Chair shall
immediately call the member to order. The member shall not be at liberty to
proceed, unless by consent of the other members of the Council. If the
violation be such as to require it, he or she shall be liable to censure and
such other punishment as the Council may impose.
   (D)   Change of rules. Any rule or rules of this Council may be changed,
altered, or amended by a majority vote of the Council, but the same shall not
be passed at the same meeting it is submitted.
(1992 Code, § 3-11)
§ 31.25 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Any matter not addressed by the standing parliamentary rules contained in
this subchapter shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(1992 Code, § 3-12)
ORDINANCES
§ 31.35 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND THE TOWN CODE.
   All ordinances which are of a general and permanent nature, and which would
amend the town code, shall be in the form of
Appendix A at the end of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 3-13)
§ 31.36 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Filing with Clerk-Treasurer. All ordinances, orders or resolutions
shall be introduced by a member of the Town Council, or by any committee of the
Council. All ordinances, upon introduction, shall be consecutively numbered by
the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Ordinances passing by unanimous consent. No ordinance shall be passed
on the same day or at the same meeting that it is introduced, except by
unanimous consent and a motion to suspend the rules, and then only in case
there are present and voting at least 2/3 of all the members-elect of the
Council.
   (C)   Reading of ordinances. Every proposed ordinance shall receive 3
separate readings by the Town Council previous to passage.
   (D)   First reading of ordinances. The first reading of a proposed ordinance
shall be for information, but may be read by title only, and the title shall
clearly set forth the nature of the contents. The proposed ordinance shall be
immediately referred to the proper committee, or may be taken up by the entire
Council.
   (E)   Second reading of ordinances. Every proposed ordinance shall be read
through by sections at its second reading, and at the reading it shall be in
order to commit, to amend, to lay upon the table to postpone or to pass to its
third reading by a majority vote of all the members-elect. Any proposed
ordinance failing to receive a majority vote of all the members-elect at its
second reading shall be considered lost. A proposed ordinance may be stricken
from the files by a vote of 2/3 of all the members-elect before or after it has
passed its second reading.
   (F)   Third reading of ordinances. On the third reading of any proposed
ordinance, no amendment shall be in order, except by a vote of 2/3 of the
members of the Town Council. In no case shall the reading of any proposed
ordinance by sections be dispensed with on third reading. At any time before
the final passage, a proposed ordinance may be recommitted. Failing to receive
a majority of the votes of all members present on the third reading, an
ordinance is lost and shall be stricken from the files.
   (G)   Signing of ordinances. Every ordinance, order, or resolution of the
Town Council shall, upon its passage, enrollment, attestation, and signature by
the Clerk-Treasurer, and presiding officer, be signed by all members of the
Council present.
   (H)   Clerk-Treasurer to vote in case of tie. The Clerk-Treasurer shall cast
a vote in instances where the vote by the members of the Council has resulted
in a tie.
(1992 Code, § 3-14)
§ 31.37 RECORDING AND PUBLISHING OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances, within a reasonable time after their passage, shall be
recorded in a book kept for that purpose by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Any adopted ordinance, order, or resolution which must be promulgated
or published before it takes effect shall be done pursuant to applicable state
statute.
(1992 Code, § 3-15)
Statutory reference:
   Posting of ordinances in 3 public places and the publication of ordinances
in a town code, see I.C. 36-4-6-14
APPENDIX A: ORDINANCE FORMAT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-20.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Term of office
   
32.02   Powers and duties
   
32.03   Deputies and employees
   
32.04   Fiscal Officer to make claim payments
   
32.05   Official files
   
32.06   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
   
32.07   Use and control of town credit cards
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an elected position whose term of office is for
4 years, beginning at 12:00 p.m. noon on January 1 after his or her election
and continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and take
acknowledgments of instruments as required by laws.
(1992 Code, § 2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer’s term of office, see I.C. 36-5-6-3
   Election of the Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-6-4
§ 32.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and take
acknowledgments of instruments as required by law.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council, and whenever the
Town Council has an even number of members, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex
officio member for the purpose of casting the deciding vote to break a tie.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may perform all duties prescribed by law, which
include or are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money and where and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee; and/or
      (11)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(1992 Code, § 2-2) (Ord. 942, § c, passed 6-24-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer authorized to administer oaths and related powers, see I.C.
36-5-6-5
   Clerk-Treasurer’s role to the Town Council, see I.C. 36-5-2-8
§ 32.03 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The number of Deputy Town Clerks shall be those authorized by state
statute and/or approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   Deputies and employees so hired serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 2-3) (Am. Ord. 1025, passed 10-12-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer authorized to appoint deputies and employees, see I.C. 36-5-
6-7
§ 32.04 FISCAL OFFICER TO MAKE CLAIM PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council authorizes the Fiscal Officer of the town to make
claim payments for lawful town purposes and certain kinds of expenses, as
follows in division (B) below.
(1992 Code, § 2-4) (Ord. 828, § 1, passed 4-28-1992)
   (B)   Not withstanding I.C. 5-11-10, the Town Fiscal Officer may make claim
payments in advance of Council allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connections charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease or rental agreement;
      (9)   Bonds or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Any expenses for employee reimbursement for travel;
      (14)   Any expenses for training that the Town Council has approved;
      (15)   Any invoice that, if not paid before the next Council meeting,
would incur a penalty of any kind; and/or
      (16)   Any payment of an invoice that has been approved by the Town
Council at a previous meeting, such as when bids or quotes are approved by the
Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 2-4) (Ord. 933, § 1, passed 1-28-1997)
   (C)   Each payment of expense under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized claim.
   (D)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expenses.
(1992 Code, § 2-4) (Ord. 828, § 2, passed 4-28-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Towns permitted to adopt an ordinance allowing money to be disbursed for
lawful town purposes, see I.C. 36-5-4-12
§ 32.05 OFFICIAL FILES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s personnel files shall be the official files.
(Ord. 942, § 2-5, passed 6-24-1997)
   (B)   The department heads may keep satellite files that are copies of the
originals sent to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 2-5)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, logical security, see §
30.61
§ 32.06 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automated Clearing House (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT), including online transfers. Online
transfers are hereby authorized for the purpose of transferring funds between
town checking accounts in order to process payments.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate documentation of
the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as provided by law.
(Ord. 1396, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 32.07 USE AND CONTROL OF TOWN CREDIT CARDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to obtain a credit card in the name
of the Town of New Carlisle under the following restrictions and controls:
   (A)   This section is adopted in compliance with the State Board of Accounts
Accounting and Uniform Compliance Guidelines Manual for Towns, authorizing the
use of credit cards for certain purchases.
   (B)   The issuance and handling of said credit cards shall be handled by the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   It will be the responsibility of the Clerk-Treasurer to safeguard the
usage and security of said cards. If the Clerk-Treasurer elects a designee to
use the credit card then the form in Exhibit A of Ord. 1472 must be used to
clearly indicate the physical transfer of said credit card to that employee,
and the related physical transfer back to the holder. Designated card holders
shall sign the attached statement pledging receipt and responsibility.
   (D)   Payment of credit card charges shall be subject to the audit
requirements accounts payable claim vouchers in conformity with I.C. 5-11-10
and I.C. 36-4-8 along with the compliance procedures of the Indiana State Board
of Accounts. It is the responsibility of the card holder or the designee to
obtain proper itemized receipts other than the credit card receipt for items
charged. Budgeted funds must be available to utilize the card. All itemized
receipts must be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer's office within 10 business
days of charge.
   (E)   Credit card charges that do not meet the state audit requirements
including charges that include the imposition of state sales tax for which the
town is otherwise exempt, are the responsibility of the employee authorizing
the charge.
   (F)   The cards will only be used in the performance of town business for
supplies, certain travel-related charges and certain equipment purchases. Cards
should be used for purchases requiring an immediate need. Cards may not be used
for restaurant, entertainment or any personal charges by the holder. Such use
will be subject to disciplinary action as described in the employee handbook.
   (G)   Upon receiving the credit card statement, the Clerk-Treasurer, or
designee, must complete an accounts payable voucher with all the proper
receipts in order for payment to be made by due date. If interest charges or
late fees are incurred because of missing itemized receipts, the financial
responsibility of the interest and/or late fees will be with the employee that
authorized those charges.
   (H)   The Town Council further authorize that an annual fee may be paid for
said cards, if required.
(Ord. 1472, passed 8-6-2024)
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Civil Ordinance Violation Enforcement Volunteer
Town Marshal
   
33.15   Rules and regulations of the Marshal’s Department
   
33.16   Table of organization for the Marshal’s Department
   
33.17   Reserve canine unit for the Marshal’s Department
   
33.18   Canine (K-9) procedures and regulations
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policies, see
Chapter 39
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 CIVIL ORDINANCE VIOLATION ENFORCEMENT VOLUNTEER.
   (A)   Powers and numbers of volunteer violations officers.
      (1)   The Town Council empowers the Town Marshal to appoint Volunteer
Town Ordinance Violations Officers.
      (2)   These volunteers shall have the power to write ordinance citations
as prescribed in the town code.
      (3)   At no time shall the volunteers be sworn law enforcement officers
and shall be limited to the specific powers listed below.
      (4)   This position shall be a non-paid, non-merit, non-benefit position;
provided, however, these individuals serving in this position shall be provided
with a uniform and all necessary tools needed to complete their duties.
      (5)   There shall be a limit of 2 Volunteer Town Ordinance Violations
Officers.
(1992 Code, § 2-198) (Ord. 956, § 1, passed 11-11-1997)
   (B)   Power to write citations. The Ordinance Violation Enforcement
Volunteers shall have the authority and power to write citations for the
following violations:
      (1)   Illegal parking on town streets, alleys, and parks;
      (2)   Violations of the yard, weed, and grass growth provisions;
      (3)   Improper and/or illegal bicycle, skateboard, and in-line skate use;
      (4)   Domestic animals and all other animal-related issues;
      (5)   Temporary and portable readable signs;
      (6)   Junk, trash, and abandoned vehicles; and/or
      (7)   All other public safety and welfare ordinances deemed necessary by
the Town Marshal or Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 2-199) (Ord. 956, § 2, passed 11-11-1997)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 33.15 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Approval of Marshal’s Manual of Rules and Regulations; adoption of
Organization and Policies Manual.
      (1)   The Marshal’s Manual of Rules and Regulations are promulgated
pursuant to the authority of I.C. 36-8-3 et seq., 36-5-7 et seq., 36-5-2-13, as
well as any other relevant section(s) of Indiana Code that authorize the town
to regulate and discipline members of the Town Marshal’s office.
(1992 Code, § 2-6) (Ord., § 1-1, passed 6-8-1982)
      (2)   The Town of New Carlisle Marshal’s Department General Organization
and Standard Operating Policies Manual is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in full herein. Copies are available through town offices.
(Res. 08-08-12-01, passed 8-12-2008)
   (B)   Disciplinary hearings; hearing procedural rules and regulations. Refer
to the Town of New Carlisle Marshal’s Department General Organization and
Standard Operating Procedures Manual, adopted by Resolution 08-08-12-01 on
August 12, 2008.
(Res. 08-08-12-01, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 33.16 TABLE OF ORGANIZATION FOR THE MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Organization of Marshal’s Department.
      (1)   It shall be the right of the elected Town Council to appoint a
Marshal for the town and to fix his or her compensation and bond.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
      (2)   The appointed Marshal shall serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
      (3)   (a)   The Marshal shall be protected by the established state
guidelines for employment of his or her position.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
         (b)   A Marshal appointed from the ranks of the Department shall
return to the rank held prior to appointment to the position of Marshal, unless
there is a termination based on cause and in compliance with the procedures as
prescribed in I.C. 36-8-3-4.
      (4)   The appointed Marshal shall be the chief law enforcement officer
for the town and shall have such full and complete powers as that of any other
law enforcement officer within the state.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
      (5)   (a)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, authorize the Marshal to
appoint Deputy Marshals.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6(a))
         (b)   The number of Deputy Marshals shall be 10.
(Am. Ord. 1025, passed 10-12-1999)
      (6)   Deputy Marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Marshal in
executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6(a))
      (7)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation, and
term of service of Deputy Marshals. The Marshal may dismiss a Deputy Marshal at
any time. However, a Deputy Marshal
who has been employed by the town for more than 6 months after completing the
minimum basic training requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training
Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by
I.C. 36-8-3-4r is followed.
      (8)   The Marshal shall, by right of his or her office, establish any and
all rules, regulations, policies, and standard operating procedures as he or
she deems necessary for the proper and lawful operation of the Marshal’s
Department and shall retain the absolute right and power to enforce such rules,
regulations, policies, and standard operating procedures for the safety and
welfare of the Department, the town, and the citizens in compliance with
Indiana Code.
      (9)   The Marshal may create and establish a Reserve Marshal’s Department
and appoint Reserve Duty Marshals to serve the town.
(I.C. 36-8-3-20)
      (10)   Establish rules, regulations, policies, applicant qualifications,
standard operating procedures, and training requirements and any and all other
related standards.
      (11)   The Marshal may appoint a Deputy Marshal to serve in a position as
an Animal Control or Humane Officer in the town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6(b) and I.C. 36-8-3-18)
(1992 Code, § 2-31) (Res. 92-05-12-01, § 1, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 1037,
passed 4-11-2000)
   (B)   Disciplinary measures. In addition to the disciplinary powers of the
Safety Board, the Chief of the Department may, without a hearing, reprimand or
suspend without pay, a member for a maximum of 5 working days. For the purposes
of this section, 8 hours of paid time constitutes 1 working day. If a Chief
reprimands a member in writing or suspends a member, the Chief shall, within 48
hours, notify the Safety Board in writing of the action and the reasons for the
action. A member who is reprimanded in writing or suspended under this section
may, within 48 hours after receiving notice of the reprimand or suspension,
request in writing that the Board review the reprimand or suspension and either
uphold or reverse the Chief’s decision. At its discretion, the Safety Board may
hold a hearing during this review. If the Board holds a hearing, written notice
must be given either by service upon the member in person or by a copy left at
the member’s last and usual place of residence at least 14 days before the date
set for the hearing. The notice must contain the information listed under I.C.
36-8-3 et seq. If the decision is reversed, the member who was suspended is
entitled to any wages withheld as a result of the suspension.
(1992 Code, § 2-33) (Am. Ord. 1037, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 33.17 RESERVE CANINE UNIT FOR THE MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT.
   Refer to the Town of New Carlisle Marshal’s Department General Organization
and Standard Operating Procedures Manual, adopted by Resolution 08-08-12-01 on
August 12, 2008.
(Res. 08-08-12-01, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 33.18 CANINE (K-9) PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS.
   Refer to the Town of New Carlisle Marshal’s Department General Organization
and Standard Operating Procedures Manual, adopted by Resolution 08-08-12-01 on
August 12, 2008.
(Res. 08-08-12-01, passed 8-12-2008)
CHAPTER 34: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
   
34.01   Contracts with Volunteer Fire Departments
   
34.02   False fire alarms prohibited
   
34.03   Regulation of open burning
   
34.04   Fireworks regulations
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   State law provisions related to Volunteer Fire Companies, see I.C. 36-8-12-
1 through I.C. 36-8-12-12
§ 34.01 CONTRACTS WITH VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may contract with Volunteer Fire Departments for fire
protection for the town.
   (B)   The Town Council may contract with Volunteer Fire Departments for fire
protection by interlocal agreements with other governmental entities pursuant
to relevant state statutes.
Cross-reference:
   Olive Township-New Carlisle Fire Protection Territory established, see §
30.01(B)(3)
Statutory reference:
   Interlocal cooperation, see I.C. 36-1-7-1 through 36-1-7-12
   Volunteer Fire Departments, see I.C. 36-8-12-3 through 36-8-12-18, as
amended
§ 34.02 FALSE FIRE ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given a false
alarm as to fire with the intent to deceive regardless of any and like
communication.
(1992 Code, § 6-7) (Ord. 975, § 1, passed 4-14-1998) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.03 REGULATION OF OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Defined. OPEN BURNING is defined as the burning of any materials
wherein air contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into
the air, without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain
any form of open burning of any materials on private or public property, except
as specifically authorized by this section. No person shall allow the
accumulation or existence of combustible material that constitutes or
contributes to open burning.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following types of burning are allowed:
      (1)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood and other cooking
fuels customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices,
or campfires, provided they are:
         (a)   Contained in a non-combustible container with a ventilated mesh
covering containing openings no greater than one-quarter inch; and
         (b)   Placed at least 15 feet from any structure, trees or other
objects that may catch fire; and
         (c)   Are attended at all times; and
         (d)   With a means to extinguish the fire at all times while burning.
      (2)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as school
pep rally fires or other celebration or scout activities. Recreational or
ceremonial burnings shall meet the following conditions:
         (a)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only;
         (b)   The fire shall not be ignited more than 2 hours before the
recreational activity is to take place, and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity;
         (c)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: 10 ft. x 10 ft. x 10 ft.);
         (d)   The local fire department shall be notified 24 hours in advance;
         (e)   The fire shall not be used for disposal purposes;
         (f)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel
storage area.
   (D)   Illegal materials. It is illegal to include the following materials in
an open burn: leaves, grass clippings, stumps, garbage or trash, waste lumber,
furniture or mattresses, land-clearing debris, dead animals, tires, asbestos
material, wire or hazardous material.
(1992 Code, § 6-8) (Ord. 975, § 1, passed 4-14-1998; Am. Ord. 1385, § 1, passed
12-3-2019) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.04 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks may be used within the town limits only under the
provisions of this section.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the term CONSUMER FIREWORK means a
small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible effects by
combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. pt. 1507. The term also includes some
small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of charcoal, sulfur,
and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to produce an audible
effect. Consumer fireworks:
         (a)   Include:
            1.   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type
rockets, helicopter or aerial spinners, Roman candles, mines, and shells;
            2.   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes,
and chasers; and
            3.   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (A)(1)(a)1. and 2. above.
         (b)   Do not include the following items:
            1.   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item. Devices containing chlorate or
perchlorate salts may not exceed 5 grams in total composition per item;
            2.   Cylindrical fountains;
            3.   Cone fountains;
            4.   Illuminating torches;
            5.   Wheels;
            6.   Ground spinners;
            7.   Flitter sparklers;
            8.   Snakes or glow worms;
            9.   Smoke devices; and
            10.   Trick noisemakers, which include:
               a.   Party poppers;
               b.   Booby traps;
               c.   Snappers;
               d.   Trick matches;
               e.   Cigarette loads; and
               f.   Auto burglar alarms.
      (2)   No person may use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks within
the town limits except during the following times:
         (a)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:23 p.m. on June 29, 30,
July 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9;
         (b)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
and
         (c)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
      (3)   No person may use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks on any
public street or in any public park within the town limits at any time.
   (B)   Any person wishing to give a supervised public display of fireworks
may do so by first procuring a license from the town and filing bond in the sum
of $50,000, conditioned on the payment of all damages which may be caused
either to a person or property by reason of the licensed display or arising
from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents, employees, or subcontractors.
The license fee shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98, for each
day of the public display.
   (C)   Any public display of fireworks shall be conducted in all things in
accordance with the rules and regulations adopted and set out by the State Fire
Marshal, and as the same are restricted or designated by the Acts of the
General Assembly of the state. All definitions contained in those Acts shall
apply to the terms of this section.
(Ord. 1226, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
34.04 shall be subject to the penalties set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   Any person issued a citation for violating any provision of §
34.04 shall make payment through the Clerk-Treasurer. Failure to make payment
within 30 days of the issuance of a citation for violation of any provision of
§
34.04 shall result in the assessment of a late fee as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (3)   In instances where using, igniting, or discharging consumer
fireworks results in a fire, and damage is determined to be caused by
negligence or the willful disregard or violation of any of the provisions of §
34.04, a fine equal to the cost expended by the town to send fire suppression
personnel and equipment to the location shall be assessed, with the fine as set
forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (4)   A citation for a violation of §
34.04 shall be issued to the responsible party. A RESPONSIBLE PARTY is defined
as the person shown to have exclusive possession of the property (a present
possessory interest). If no responsible party is present upon the premises, the
responsible party is deemed to be the property owner(s), as determined by
reference to the records of the St. Joseph County Assessor. In this instance,
copies of the citation must be mailed to the property owner as determined from
the Assessor’s records.
(Ord. 1226, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Historic Review Board
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Review Board
   
35.03   Powers and duties of the Review Board
   
35.04   Approval by Town Council required
   
35.05   Further surveying and mapping
   
35.06   Relationship to zoning districts
   
35.07   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
35.08   Application for certificate of appropriateness
   
35.09   Action of applications for certificate of appropriateness
   
35.10   Development standards
   
35.11   Appeal provisions
   
35.12   Maintenance
   
35.13   Visual compatibility
   
35.14   Visual compatibility factors
   
35.15   Recording the fact of historic district designation
   
35.16   Phased districts
   
35.17   Paint colors
   
35.18   Interested parties
Health Department
   
35.30   Designation of Department/duties
 
   
35.99   Penalty
HISTORIC REVIEW BOARD
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any material change in the external architectural features of
any historic structure within an historic district.
   DEMOLITION. The substantial deterioration or complete or substantial removal
or destruction of any historic structure or any structure which is located
within an historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A concentration of buildings, structures, objects,
spaces, or sites or the boundaries of a property containing a single building,
structure, object, or site and in either case which has been designated by
ordinance by the Town Council.
   REVIEW BOARD. The Historic Review Board of the Town of New Carlisle,
Indiana.
(1992 Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 934, § 1, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.02 REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Historic Review Board of the town. The
Review Board shall consist of 3 members. However, the Town Council may in the
future appoint up to 6 more members if needed. The voting members shall be
appointed by the Town Council President, subject to the approval of the Town
Council.
   (B)   Voting members shall serve for a term of 3 years; however, the initial
terms of members shall be for 1 year, 2 years, and 3 years in order for the
terms to be staggered. A vacancy shall be filled within 90 days for the
duration of the term of the member who is being replaced.
   (C)   Voting members shall be residents of the town, who are interested in
the preservation and development of historic areas. To the extent available to
the community, the Review Board shall include professional members from the
disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, preservation
planning, archeology, or other historic preservation-related disciplines, such
as urban planning, American studies, art history, American civilization,
cultural geography, or cultural anthropology.
   (D)   The Town Council President may, with the approval of the town, appoint
such advisory members as the Town Council considers appropriate.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as the ex officio administrator of the
Review Board. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide staff assistance to the Review
Board, act as the Review Board’s secretary, and issue certificates of
appropriateness as directed by the Review Board.
   (F)   Members of the Review Board shall serve without compensation but may
be paid for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (G)   The Review Board shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson who shall serve for 1 year and who may be re-elected. The
Review Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business not
inconsistent with this subchapter. The rules must include the time and place of
regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special meetings. Meetings
of the Review Board must be open to the public in accordance with the Open Door
Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq., and a public record shall be kept of the
Review Board’s resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
   (H)   The Review Board shall hold regular meetings at least monthly except
when it has no business pending.
   (I)   Each official of the town who has responsibility for building
inspection, building permits, planning, or zoning shall provide such technical,
administrative, and clerical assistance as may be requested by the Review
Board. The attorney for the town is the attorney for the Review Board. However,
the Review Board may employ other legal counsel authorized to practice law in
Indiana if it considers it to be necessary or desirable.
(1992 Code, § 2-206) (Ord. 934, § 2, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   The Review Board shall be concerned with those elements of
development, redevelopment, rehabilitation, and preservation that affect visual
quality in an historic district. However, the Review Board may not consider
details of design, interior arrangements, or building features, if those
details, arrangements, or features, are not subject to public view, and may not
make any requirement except for the purpose of preventing development,
alteration, or demolition in the historic district obviously incongruous with
the historic district.
   (B)   The Review Board shall conduct a survey to identify historic
buildings, structures, and places located within the town; however, neither the
survey nor any other action of the Review Board shall affect any property not
located within the town limits.
   (C)   Based on its survey, the Review Board shall submit to the Town Council
a map describing the boundaries of an historic district or historic districts.
A district may be limited to the boundaries of a property containing a single
building, structure, or site. The map may divide a district into primary and
secondary areas.
   (D)   Owners of property in fee simple wishing to establish an historic
district which includes their property may petition the Review Board to
consider drawing and submitting a map of the property to the Town Council for
its approval. The Review Board may establish in its rules criteria to be met
before it considers a petition.
   (E)   The Review Board shall classify and designate on the map all buildings
and structures within each historic district described on the map. Buildings
and structures shall be classified as historic or non-historic, in the
following manner:
      (1)   Historic buildings and structures must possess identified historic
or architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation. They may be
further classified as:
         (a)   Exceptional;
         (b)   Excellent;
         (c)   Notable; or
         (d)   Of value as part of the scene.
      (2)   In lieu of the further classifications set forth in divisions (E)
(1)(a) through (d) above, the Review Board may devise its own system of further
classification of historic buildings and structures.
      (3)   Non-historic: those buildings and structures not classified on the
map as historic.
   (F)   The Review Board may promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on public relations and community education
programs.
(Ord. 934, § 4, passed 2-25-1997)
   (G)   When submitting a map to the Town Council under §
35.04, the Historic Review Board may declare 1 or more buildings or structures
that are classified and designated as historic on the map to be under interim
protection.
      (1)   Not more than 2 working days after declaring a building, structure,
or site to be under interim protection under this section, the Historic Review
Board shall, by personal delivery of first class mail, provide the owner or
occupant of the building, structure, or site with a written notice of the
declaration. The written notice must:
         (a)   Cite the authority of the Historic Review Board to put the
building, structure, or site under interim protection under this section;
         (b)   Explain the effect of putting the building, structure, or site
under interim protection; and
         (c)   Indicate that the interim protection is temporary (not more than
60 days).
      (2)   A building or structure put under interim protection under this
section remains under interim protection until the map is:
         (a)   Submitted to; and
         (b)   Approved in an ordinance or rejected by the Town Council.
      (3)   While a building, structure, or site is under interim protection
under this section:
         (a)   The building, structure, or site may not be demolished or moved;
and
         (b)   The exterior appearance of the building, structure, or site may
not be conspicuously changed by:
            1.   Addition;
            2.   Partial or whole demolition;
            3.   Reconstruction; or
            4.   Alteration.
      (4)   The Historic Review Board may approve a certificate of
appropriateness at any time during the period of interim protection, provided
the proposed change meets the criteria for considering effect of actions on
historic buildings in §
35.09 and any proposed preservation guidelines prepared for the building,
structure, or site, but the certificate of appropriateness shall have no
effect, and no action may be taken pursuant thereto, unless the map including
the building, structure, or site is approved by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 2-207)
§ 35.04 APPROVAL BY TOWN COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   The map setting forth the historic district boundaries and building
classifications must be submitted to and approved in an ordinance by the Town
Council before the historic district is established and the building
classifications take effect.
(1992 Code, § 2-208) (Ord. 934, § 4, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.05 FURTHER SURVEYING AND MAPPING.
   The Review Board may conduct additional surveys and draw and submit
additional maps for approval of the Town Council as it considers appropriate.
(1992 Code, § 2-209) (Ord. 934, § 5, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.06 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The historic district regulation provided in this subchapter is intended to
preserve and protect the historic or architecturally worthy buildings,
structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes, squares, and neighborhoods of the
historic districts. Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the
historic district are subject to the regulations for both the zoning district
and the historic district. If there is a conflict between the requirements of
the zoning district and the historic district, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
(1992 Code, § 2-210) (Ord. 934, § 6, passed 2-25–1997)
§ 35.07 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §§
35.16 through
35.18, a certificate of appropriateness must be issued by the Review Board of
the town before a permit is issued for, or work is begun on any of the
following:
   (A)   Within all areas of the historic district:
      (1)   The demolition of any building;
      (2)   The moving of any building;
      (3)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, construction, alteration or maintenance; or
      (4)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building
or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Within a primary area of the historic district:
      (1)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and fences,
if along public ways; or
      (2)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historical
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration, or maintenance.
(1992 Code, § 2-211) (Ord. 934, § 7, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.08 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   An application for certificates of appropriateness may be made in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer on forms provided by that office and shall be subject to
the following requirements.
   (A)   The Review Board may adopt, as a part of its rules, filing
requirements which it finds reasonable and necessary to expedite the business
of the Review Board. These rules may include, but are not limited to, filing
deadlines and application requirements such as sketches, drawings, photographs,
descriptions, or other information which the Review Board requires to make a
decision.
   (B)   A fee may be charged for the application to cover the cost of
processing the application.
   (C)   Applications are to be received 2 weeks prior to the regularly
scheduled Review Board meeting.
(1992 Code, § 2-212) (Ord. 934, § 8, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.09 ACTION OF APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   The Review Board may advise and make recommendations to the applicant
before acting on an application for a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is approved by
the Review Board, or is not acted on by the Review Board within 30 days after
it is filed, a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. If the
certificate is issued, the application shall be processed in the same manner as
applications for building or demolition permits required by the town if any are
processed. If no building or demolition permits are required by the town, the
applicant may proceed with the work authorized by the certificate.
   (C)   If the Review Board denies an application for a certificate of
appropriateness within 30 days after it is filed, the certificate may not be
issued. The Review Board must state its reason for the denial in writing, and
must advise the applicant. An application that has been denied may not be
processed as an application for a building or demolition permit and does not
authorize any work by the applicant.
   (D)   The Review Board may grant an extension of the 30-day limit prescribed
by divisions (B) and (C) above if the applicant agrees to it.
(1992 Code, § 2-213) (Ord. 934, § 9, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.10 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   An historic building or structure or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving and signs may be moved, reconstructed, altered, or maintained
only in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character
of the building, structure, or appurtenance.
   (B)   An historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
of this section.
(1992 Code, § 2-214) (Ord. 934, § 10, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.11 APPEAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve historic districts that are
important to the education, culture, traditions, and economic values of the
town, and to afford the town historical organizations, and other interested
persons the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the preservation of these
buildings.
   (B)   If the Review Board denies the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness for the demolition of a building or structure, a demolition
permit may be issued by other agencies and a building may be demolished, but
only after the property owner has demonstrated to the Review Board that an
historic building or structure is incapable of earning an economic return on
its value, as appraised by a licensed real estate appraiser.
   (C)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed by
the Review Board based on the Review Board’s classification on the approved
map, but not less than 60 days nor more than 1 year. Notice must be posted on
the premises of the building or structure proposed for demolition in a location
clearly visible from the street. In addition, notice must be published in a
newspaper of general local circulation at least 3 times before demolition, with
the first publication not more than 15 days after the application for a permit
to demolish is filed and the final publication at least 15 days before the date
of the permit.
   (D)   The Review Board may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under division (C) above. If the certificate is
approved, a demolition permit shall be issued without further delay and
demolition may proceed.
(1992 Code, § 2-215) (Ord. 934, § 11, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.12 MAINTENANCE.
   Historic buildings shall be maintained to meet the applicable requirements
established under state and local laws for buildings generally.
(1992 Code, § 2-216) (Ord. 934, § 12, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.13 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   Except as provided in §
35.17, the construction of a new building or structure and the moving,
reconstruction, alteration, major maintenance, or repair involving a color
change conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any non-historic
building, structure, or appurtenance within the primary area must be generally
of a design, form, proportion, mass configuration, building material, texture,
color, and location on a lot compatible with buildings in the historic district
(particularly with buildings designated as historic) and with squares and
places to which it is visually related.
(1992 Code, § 2-217) (Ord. 934, § 13, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.14 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY FACTORS.
   Except as provided in §
35.17, within the primary area of the historic district, new buildings and
structures as well as buildings, structures, and appurtenances that are moved,
reconstructed, materially altered, repaired, or changed in color must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which they are
visually related generally in terms of the following visual compatibility
factors.
   (A)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually compatible
with adjacent buildings.
   (B)   Proportion of building’s front façade. The relationship of the width
of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually compatible
to buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
   (C)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
   (D)   Rhythm of solids to voids in front façades. The relationship of solids
to voids in the front façade of a building must be visually compatible with
buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
   (E)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
related.
   (F)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections to sidewalks of a building must be visually
compatible to the buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related.
   (G)   Relationship of materials, texture, and color. The relationship of the
materials, texture and color of the façade of a building must be visually
compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is
visually related.
   (H)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually compatible
with the buildings to which it is visually related.
   (I)   Walls of continuity. Appurtenances of a building, such as walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, and building façades, must
form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary, to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings, squares, and places to
which it is visually related.
   (J)   Scale of a building. The size of a building and the building mass of a
building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches, and
balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings, squares, and places
to which it is visually related.
   (K)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be visually
compatible with the buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character, or non-directional character.
(1992 Code, § 2-218) (Ord. 934, § 14, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.15 RECORDING THE FACT OF HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The boundaries of any historic district may be recorded in the office
of the St. Joseph County Recorder.
   (B)   Two copies of the boundaries of any historic district shall be
maintained in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for
public inspection during regular business hours.
(1992 Code, § 2-220) (Ord. 934, § 16, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.16 PHASED DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In an ordinance approving the establishment of a historic district,
the town may provide that the establishment occur in 2 phases. Under the first
phase, which lasts 3 years from the date the ordinance is adopted, a
certificate of appropriateness is required only for the activities described in
§
35.07(A)(1), (2), and (4). At the end of the first phase, the district becomes
fully established, and subject to division (B) below, a certificate of
appropriateness must be issued by the Board before a permit may be issued for
or work may begin on an activity described in §
35.07.
   (B) The first phase described in division (A) continues and the second phase
does not become effective if a majority of the property owners in the district
object to the Board, in writing, to the requirement that certificates of
appropriateness be issued for the activities described in §
35.07(A)(3), (B)(1), and (B)(2). The objections must be received by the Board
not earlier than 180 days or later than 60 days before the third anniversary of
the adoption of the ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 2-222) (Ord. 934, § 18, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.17 PAINT COLORS.
   In an ordinance approving the establishment of an historic district, the
town may exclude changes in paint colors from the activities requiring the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness under §
35.07 of this subchapter before a permit may be issued or work begun.
(1992 Code, § 2-223) (Ord. 934, § 19, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 35.18 INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   As used in this section, INTERESTED PARTY means 1 of the following:
      (1)   The Council President of the town;
      (2)   The Town Council of the town;
      (3)   The agency having land use planning jurisdiction over a historic
district designated by the ordinance adopted under this subchapter;
      (4)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
a majority of whose members are residents of a historic district designated by
an ordinance adopted under this subchapter;
      (5)   An owner or occupant owning or occupying property located in a
historic district established by an ordinance adopted under this subchapter;
      (6)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors; and/or
      (7)   The state historic preservation officer designated under I.C. 14-
21-1-19.
   (B)   Every interested party has a private right of action to enforce and
prevent violation of a provision of this subchapter or an ordinance adopted by
the town under this subchapter, and with respect to any building, structure, or
site within a historic district, has the right to restrain, enjoin, or enforce
by restraining order or injunction, temporarily or permanently any person from
violating a provision of this subchapter or an ordinance adopted under this
subchapter.
   (C)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (D) The interested party bringing an action under this section does not have
to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond should
be required in the interest of justice.
   (E)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this subchapter, or an ordinance adopted by a unit
under this subchapter, had been or was about to be violated.
   (F)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (G)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the Circuit or
Superior Court of the county in which the historic district lies and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in this action.
   (H)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(1992 Code, § 2-224) (Ord. 934, § 20, passed 2-25-1997)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 35.30 DESIGNATION OF DEPARTMENT/DUTIES.
   (A)   The Health Department of St. Joseph County is the designated Health
Department of the town.
   (B)   The Health Department shall enforce and observe all state laws and
legally promulgate regulations pertaining to the preservation of health.
   (C)   The Health Department shall investigate the existence of any
contagious or infectious disease, adopt measures, not inconsistent with the
regulations of the State Board, to arrest the progress of the same and make all
necessary sanitary and health investigations and inspections.
   (D)   The Health Officer shall diligently enforce the rules and regulations
pertaining to health and sanitation adopted by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 6-14)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(B).
   (B)   (1)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer, or otherwise, who violates any
provision of §§
35.01 through
35.18 shall be subject to a fine as follows, for each offense:
         (a)   For demolition, as set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98;
and
         (b)   For all other offenses, as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   Each day a violation continues shall be a separate offense.
      (3)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving, or maintenance of any building, structure, or
appurtenance which is begun, continued, or maintained contrary to any
provisions of §§
35.01 through
35.18 is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation of this chapter and
unlawful. The town may institute a suit for injunction in the Circuit Court or
Superior Court of St. Joseph County to restrain any person or government unit
from violating any provision of §§
35.01 through
35.18 and to cause the violation to be prevented, abated, or removed. Such
action may also be instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected
by the violation of any provision of §§
35.01 through
35.18.
      (4)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and
not exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
      (5)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or action taken by the
Review Board shall be entitled to a judicial review hereof in accordance with
I.C. 4-21.5-5.
(1992 Code, § 2-219) (Ord. 934, § 15, passed 2-25-1997)
   (C)   (1)   Any condition which violates the health and sanitation rules and
regulations adopted by the Town Council shall constitute a nuisance and shall
be abated by action of the Town Council.
      (2)   Persons violating those rules and regulations shall be subject to
fines and costs of abatement.
(1992 Code, § 6-15)
CHAPTER 36: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Ordinance Violations Bureau created
   
36.02   Violations Clerk
   
36.03   Duties of Violations Clerk
   
36.04   Effect of repeal
   
36.05   General Fund deposits
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU CREATED.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau pursuant to I.C. 33-
36-2-1 et seq., as amended, for the town.
(1992 Code, § 3-30) (Ord. 859, § 1, passed 7-27-1993)
§ 36.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations Clerk,
who administers the Bureau.
(1992 Code, § 3-31) (Ord. 859, § 2, passed 7-27-1993)
§ 36.03 DUTIES OF VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as his or her agents, shall accept
written appearances, waivers of trial, admission of violations, and payment of
civil penalties in the amount and for the violation as provided in §
36.99.
(1992 Code, § 3-32)
§ 36.04 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   This chapter repeals all other town municipal code and ordinance provisions
inconsistent herewith. All other provisions of the town municipal code not
affected by this chapter shall remain in full force and effect.
(1992 Code, § 3-35) (Ord. 859, § 6, passed 7-27-1993)
§ 36.05 GENERAL FUND DEPOSITS.
   All civil penalties collected shall be deposited in the General Fund of the
town to be disbursed through the appropriate process required by law.
(1992 Code, § 3-37) (Ord. 859, § 8, passed 7-27-1993)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for
which no penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99(B).
   (B)   Specific civil penalties. The provisions of the town municipal code
and the ordinances referred to herein are amended to provide and declare the
civil penalty scheduled with the ordinance or code provision to be the specific
civil penalty for the violation of the ordinance or code provision.
(1992 Code, § 3-34) (Ord. 859, § 5, passed 7-27-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Civil penalties, see
Ch. 98
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL FINANCES
Section
Funds
   
37.01   Cash Reserve Fund
   
37.02   Community Ambulance Gift Fund
   
37.03   Criminal Justice Planning Agency Fund
   
37.04   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
37.05   Cumulative Fire Fund
   
37.06   Major Moves Construction Fund
   
37.07   Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund; pretrial diversion user fees
   
37.08   Community Services Fund
   
37.09   Non-Reverting Cemetery Gift Fund
   
37.10   Park Gift Fund
   
37.11   Non-Reverting Park Fund
   
37.12   River Boat Fund
   
37.13   Rainy Day Fund
   
37.14   Law Enforcement Gift Fund
   
37.15   Establishment and expenditure of a promotional appropriation
   
37.16   Cumulative Non-Reverting Law Enforcement Training Fund
   
37.17   Self-Insurance Fund
   
37.18   Law Enforcement Assistance Grant Fund
   
37.19   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
37.20   County Option Income Tax (COIT) Fund
   
37.21   County Economic Development Income Tax (CEDIT) Fund
   
37.22   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
37.23   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
37.24   Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund
   
37.25   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
37.26   SJEC Water Operating Fund #6107
   
37.27   SJEC Water Depreciation Fund #6108
   
37.28   SJEC Water Recoupment Fee Fund #6109
FUNDS
§ 37.01 CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Cash Reserve Fund of the electric utility of the
town is created.
   (B)   Purposes. The Town Council may transfer into this Fund amounts from
the electric operating account by specific and separate ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 2-155) (Ord. 279, passed - -1965)
§ 37.02 COMMUNITY AMBULANCE GIFT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Community Ambulance Gift Fund is created and
established.
   (B)   Purpose. This Fund is created for the purposes of receiving gifts and
donations from individuals, clubs, organizations, and other groups to finance
the purchasing and maintenance of a community ambulance and related equipment.
(1992 Code, § 2-156) (Ord. 467, passed - -1976)
§ 37.03 CRIMINAL JUSTICE PLANNING AGENCY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Criminal Justice Planning Agency Fund is
created.
   (B)   Purpose. This Fund is established for the purpose of receiving monies
to be used for the financing of public safety equipment for the town.
(1992 Code, § 2-157)
§ 37.04 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund is
established.
   (B)   Purpose. This special fund is created for the purpose of receiving
cigarette taxes allocated to the town pursuant to applicable state law, and the
funds shall not revert to the General Fund.
   (C)   Capital improvements. Monies shall be used solely for capital
improvements, herein defined as the construction or improvement of any property
owned by the town, including but not limited to streets, thoroughfares, and
sewers, the retirement of general obligations bonds, and salaries of public
officials and employees directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
(1992 Code, § 2-158) (Ord. 275, passed - -)
§ 37.05 CUMULATIVE FIRE FUND.
   (A)   There is re-established a Cumulative Fire Fund.
(Ord. 857, § 1, passed 6-8-1993)
   (B)   The Town Council may levy a tax on all taxable property and the
revenue from the levy will be retained in the town Cumulative Fire Fund.
(Ord. 857, § 2, passed 6-8-1993)
   (C)   The tax rate in division (B) above may not exceed $0.10 on each $100
of assessed valuation of property in the taxing district.
(Ord. 857, § 3, passed 6-8-1993)
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Fire Fund for the town shall
be used for those items allowed under I.C. 36-8-14-2.
(Ord. 857, § 4, passed 6-8-1993)
   (E)   The tax, after approval by the State Board of Tax Commissioners, may
be levied annually beginning with the first annual tax levy after approval
every year thereafter until rescinded, and must be advertised annually as other
tax levies are, beginning with the first annual levy.
(Ord. 857, § 5, passed 6-8-1993)
   (F)   This section takes effect upon approval by the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(Ord. 857, § 6, passed 6-8-1993)
(1992 Code, § 2-159)
§ 37.06 MAJOR MOVES CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   A cumulative, non-reverting Major Moves Construction Fund is hereby
established.
   (B)   The funds shall be funded by revenues distributed to the town in
accordance with I.C. 8-14-14-6(a)(3).
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall open an account named the Major Moves
Construction Fund for the town.
   (D)   Funds received by the town as part of the Major Moves Construction
Fund distribution shall be used and dedicated by the Town Council pursuant to
I.C. 8-14-16-5, including any amendments therein as follows:
      (1)   Construction of highways, roads, and bridges;
      (2)   Provide funding for economic development projects as defined in
I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1(c) or I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)(A) through 6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)
(K);
      (3)   Provide matching funds for federal grants for any of these
permissible uses of Major Moves Construction Fund money; and
      (4)   Provide funding for interlocal agreements under I.C. 36-1-7 for any
of these permissible uses of Major Moves Construction Fund money.
(Ord. 1159, passed 10-24-2006)
§ 37.07 LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND; PRETRIAL DIVERSION USER
FEES.
   (A)   The Police Benefit Fund and the Police Trust Fund shall be closed with
fund balances being transferred to the Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund.
   (B)   An agreement for the disbursement of pretrial diversion user fees
generated through the Infraction Deferral Program administered by the St.
Joseph County Prosecutor will be as follows.
      (1)   The Continuing Education Fund of the Marshal’s Department will
receive annually a total of $10 per defendant that was issued a uniform traffic
ticket by a member of the Marshal’s Department and is enrolled in the
Infraction Deferral Program.
      (2)   The disbursement will be made in accordance with agreements signed
after January 1, 2006.
(1992 Code, § 2-161) (Res. passed 8-14-1990; Am. Res. 06-01-10-01, passed 1-10-
2006)
§ 37.08 COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   The Community Services Fund shall be established and shall continue
perpetually to accept donations for specific community projects or programs
presented by the town.
   (B)   At such time as the Town Council determines that the Community
Services Fund is no longer necessary, by majority vote of the Town Council the
fund may be terminated and any and all remaining balance deposited in the
General Fund.
(1992 Code, § 2-163) (Res. 91-05-31-01, passed 6-11-1991)
§ 37.09 NON-REVERTING CEMETERY GIFT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council allows the Cemetery Board to accept donations for the
beautification of the cemetery.
   (B)   The donations received are appropriated by the Cemetery Board for
purposes specified by the donor and approved by the Cemetery Board.
   (C)   A non-reverting cemetery gift fund shall be established and entitled
the Non-Reverting Cemetery Fund for the purpose specified in this section.
(1992 Code, § 2-164) (Ord. 818, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 37.10 PARK GIFT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council allows donations or gifts for improvements approved
by the Park Board.
   (B)   The monetary donations received are appropriated for a specific
project approved by the Park Board.
   (C)   A Park Gift Fund shall be established for the purposes specified in
this section and in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-18.
(1992 Code, § 2-165) (Ord. 817, passed 11-12-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Additional park funds, see §
37.11
§ 37.11 NON-REVERTING PARK FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council allows the Park Board to accept fees for the use of
Bourissa Hills Park or Memorial Park.
   (B)   The fees received are appropriated for any improvements or additions
approved by the Park Board.
   (C)   A Non-Reverting Park Fund shall be established for the purposes
outlined in this section and in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-22.
(1992 Code, § 2-166) (Ord. 816, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 37.12 RIVER BOAT FUND.
   (A)   The River Boat Fund shall be used for any expense that the town would
use the funds in the General Fund to expend.
   (B)   All monies shall be legally advertised and appropriated with the
approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 1118, passed 9-23-2003)
§ 37.13 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Name and purpose. A fund titled “A Rainy Day Fund” shall be created
and utilized to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds under the
following sources:
      (1)   I.C. 36-1-8-5, wherein a town may transfer to the Rainy Day Fund
not more than 10% of the town’s annual budget that is unused or unencumbered;
      (2)   All supplemental distributions of CAGIT under I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-21.1,
COIT under I.C. 6-3.5-6-17.3, and CEDIT under I.C. 6-3.5-7-17.3, shall also be
deposited in the Rainy Day Fund; and
      (3)   Proceeds or receipts of miscellaneous revenues (360), and interest
or investments (361), other financing sources (390), including (391) interfund
operating transfers, and (395) sale of investments.
   (B)   Disbursements and use of proceeds of the Rainy Day Fund. Use of the
Rainy Day Fund shall be used for any purpose permitted by state statutes for
other revenues of the town.
   (C)   Appropriations. The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same
appropriation process as other funds that receive tax money. The Town Council
shall make a finding that any proposed use of the Rainy Day Fund is consistent
with the intent of the fund before making an appropriation.
   (D)   Transfer to the Rainy Day Fund. Transfer to the Rainy Day Fund shall
be made after the last day of the year and before March 1 of the subsequent
calendar year in accordance with I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
(Ord. 1125, passed 4-27-2004)
§ 37.14 LAW ENFORCEMENT GIFT FUND.
   (A)   The Law Enforcement Gift Fund shall be established and shall continue
perpetually to accept donations for specific projects or programs. Donations
shall be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and deposited in a separate
fund to be known as the Law Enforcement Gift Fund. A separate depository
account shall not be required.
   (B)   At such time as the Town Council determines that the Law Enforcement
Gift Fund is no longer necessary, by majority vote of the Town Council, the
Fund may be terminated and any and all remaining balances shall be deposited in
the General Fund.
(1992 Code, § 2-168) (Ord. 844, passed 12-22-1992)
§ 37.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND EXPENDITURE OF A PROMOTIONAL APPROPRIATION.
   (A)   A promotional appropriation shall be established within the General
Fund of the town.
(Ord. 846, § 1, passed 12-22-1992)
   (B)   The promotional appropriation may be expended, but not necessarily be
limited to, rental of meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards,
expenses incurred in interviewing job applicants, expenses incurred in
promoting industrial, commercial and residential development, expenses incurred
in developing relations with other units of government, and any other expenses
of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the Town Council to be in the
interest of the town.
(Ord. 846, § 2, passed 12-22-1992)
(1992 Code, § 2-169)
§ 37.16 CUMULATIVE NON-REVERTING LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   A Cumulative Non-Reverting Law Enforcement Training Fund is
established.
   (B)   The Fund shall be funded by revenues derived from fees charged by the
town.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer shall deposit the fees into the Cumulative Non-
Reverting Law Enforcement Training Fund.
   (D)   Funds received by the Cumulative Non-Reverting Law Enforcement
Training Fund shall be used for law enforcement employees’ salaries, law
enforcement employees’ benefits, supplies, equipment, or any law enforcement
purpose.
(1992 Code, § 2-170) (Ord. 917, §§ 1 - 5, passed 4-23-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Class fees, see
Ch. 98
§ 37.17 SELF-INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   The Self-Insurance Fund is established to pay the town’s portion of
the employees’ health and dental claims that are administered by Med Benefit
Systems.
   (B)   The Self-Insurance Fund is funded by depositing once-a-month payments
from the various departments of the town. This shall be done according to the
department from which the employee’s bi-weekly salary is expended.
   (C)   When the Self-Insurance Fund has a balance sufficient to cover all the
town’s insured, the Clerk-Treasurer may cease to deposit monthly payments until
such a time when they are needed again. (1992 Code, § 2-171) (Ord. 945, §§ 1 -
3, passed 7-22-1997)
§ 37.18 LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE GRANT FUND.
   (A)   The Law Enforcement Assistance Grant Fund shall be established to pay
the salary and benefits for a full-time Deputy Marshal.
   (B)   The Law Enforcement Assistance Grant Fund is funded by requesting an
Indiana Criminal Justice Institute claim voucher.
   (C)   All appropriations must be legally advertised and approved by the
State Tax Commissioner before any payments shall be disbursed.
   (D)   The town shall take on the fiscal responsibility for the Deputy
Marshal after the expiration of the grant.
(1992 Code, § 2-172) (Ord. 969, §§ 1 - 4, passed 2-10-1998)
§ 37.19 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is established a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenue from
the levy will be retained in the town Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall be used for the purposes
allowed under I.C. 36-9-15.5, such as pumping stations, water retarding, or
improvement, firefighting apparatus and equipment, law enforcement radio
equipment; the purchase, construction, renovation, or additions to a building;
the purchase of equipment for use of providing of emergency medical services;
to purchase, construct, equip, and maintain buildings for public purpose; to
acquire the land and any improvements on it that are necessary for construction
of public buildings; to demolish any improvements on land acquired under this
section, and to level, grade, and prepare the land for the construction of a
public building; to acquire land or right-of-way to be used for public ways or
sidewalks; to acquire land or right-of-way for the construction of sanitary or
storm sewers, or both; to purchase, lease, or pay all or part of the purchase
price of motor vehicles for the use of the Marshal’s or Fire Department, or
both, including ambulance and firefighting vehicles with the necessary
equipment, ladders, and hoses; to construct, repair, or improve streets,
alleys, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and sewers; the construction, remodeling,
repair, and extensions of storm sewers, building, remodeling, and repairs of
park and recreational facilities.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, funds accumulated in the town
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (C) if the purpose is to protect the public health,
welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate action.
Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the Town
Council issues a declaration that the public health, welfare, or safety is in
immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the Fund.
(1992 Code, § 2-173) (Ord. 984, §§ 1 - 5, passed 6-9-1998; Am. Ord. 1275,
passed 6-11-2013; Am. Ord. 1423, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 37.20 COUNTY OPTION INCOME TAX (COIT) FUND.
   (A)   The Chief Fiscal Officer shall deposit monies received from the St.
Joseph County Auditor into the County Option Income Tax (COIT) Fund.
   (B)   The County Option Income Tax monies shall be utilized for the same
purpose as the General Fund monies are utilized.
   (C)   The Chief Fiscal Officer shall establish appropriations for the COIT
and legally advertise during the budget process for the town.
(1992 Code, § 2-174) (Ord. 980, §§ 1 - 3, passed 5-12-1998; Am. Ord. 1088,
passed 1-22-2002)
§ 37.21 COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX (CEDIT) FUND.
   (A)   The Chief Fiscal Officer shall deposit monies received from the St.
Joseph County Auditor into the CEDIT Fund.
   (B)   The Chief Fiscal Officer shall establish appropriations within the
CEDIT and legally advertise during the budget process for the town.
(1992 Code, § 2-175) (Ord. 981, §§ 1 - 3, passed 5-12-1998)
§ 37.22 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of the Department of
Local Government Finance, this fund is established to receive and expend the
LOIT special distribution in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 1327, passed 5-24-2016)
§ 37.23 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   Creation of the Community Crossings Matching Grant Fund. A new non-reverting
fund to be known as the Local Road and bridge Matching Grant Fund #258 is now
established. The Fund shall receive monies from the Local Road and Bridge
Matching Grant Fund through Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT), as
well as local match funds to be transferred from the LOIT Special Distribution
Fund (#257) and other funds appropriated for local road improvements.
(Ord. 1352, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 37.24 FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of a Fire Protection Territory
Equipment Replacement Fund for the Olive Township-New Carlisle Fire Protection
Territory for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-8-19-8.5.
   (B)   The Town Board will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-19-8.5. The
proposed fund will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. This
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes due and payable in 2020 and
thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
   (C)   This Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
   (D)   Olive Township is the provider unit of the Olive Township Fire
Protection Territory. The other participating unit is the Town of New Carlisle.
As provider unit, Olive Township is authorized to establish this Fund. This
section contains or incorporates by reference the contents of the agreement to
establish the Fund.
(Ord. 1378, passed 3-19-2019; Am. Ord. 1425, passed 3-28-2022; Am. Ord. 1427,
passed 5-27-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Olive Township-New Carlisle Fire Protection Territory established, see §
30.01(B)(3)
§ 37.25 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the town
in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Uses of funding.
      (1)   The town shall only appropriate and use the funds to cover costs
incurred by the town by December 31, 2024 for the following:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
         (b)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
of the town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency, that being 2019; or
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the
use of funds.
   (D)   Amendments. This section may be amended from time to time if
additional guidance is received from any federal or state agency.
   (E)   The ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund shall exist until
terminated by ordinance of the Town Council. Monies from this Fund may not be
transferred to another fund of the town.
(Ord. 1411, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 37.26 SJEC WATER OPERATING FUND #6107.
   The SJEC Water Operating Fund #6107 shall be used to deposit all revenues
received from users of the SJEC Plant. The revenues recorded in this fund shall
be used to pay the operating costs of the SJEC Plant and to fund the
Depreciation Fund #6108 through monthly transfers. As revenues are received,
the capital surcharge portion of the water consumption bills shall be
transferred to the Depreciation Fund #6108 to be reserved for future capital
improvements.
(Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 37.27 SJEC WATER DEPRECIATION FUND #6108.
   The SJEC Water Depreciation Fund #6108 shall be used to pay for all future
capital improvement needs at the SJEC Plant and any other assets associated
with the plant. On a monthly basis, the SJEC Water Operating Fund will transfer
the capital surcharge portion of the monthly consumption billing of users to
this fund, as set forth in the water utility rates ordinances in the town code.
The surcharge amounts will be transferred from Fund #6107 to Fund #6108 on a
monthly basis. As further phases of the SJEC Plant expansion are completed, the
dollar value of the transfers for each user will change. A portion of these
funds may be invested to maximize the fund balance.
(Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 37.28 SJEC WATER RECOUPMENT FEE FUND #6109.
   The SJEC Water Recoupment Fee Fund #6109 shall be used if there are any
connections to the SJEC Plant by additional users who have not contributed to
initial capital investments. Additional users shall pay a recoupment fee to the
St. Joseph County Redevelopment Commission as reimbursement for St. Joseph
County's initial capital investment in the SJEC Plant expansion. This
requirement is set forth in the Agreement Concerning Water Service and Related
Matters with the St. Joseph County Redevelopment Commission and St. Joseph
County, under Titles VII, VIII, and IX.
(Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2025)
CHAPTER 38: PURCHASING
Section
Required Purchasing Rules
   
38.01   Purchasing rules requiring supplies manufactured in the United States
Required Purchasing Agency Rules
   
38.15   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
38.16   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
38.17   Delay of opening offers
   
38.18   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
38.19   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies
   
38.20   Modification and termination of contracts
   
38.21   Purchase of services
REQUIRED PURCHASING RULES
§ 38.01 PURCHASING RULES REQUIRING SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   (A)   The following are the required purchasing rules for the town.
   (B)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States: supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be preferred for all town purchases.
(1992 Code, § 2-230)
REQUIRED PURCHASING AGENCY RULES
§ 38.15 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying proposals may not be disclosed.
(1992 Code, § 2-231) (Ord. 996, § 1, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 38.16 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(1992 Code, § 2-232) (Ord. 996, § 1, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 38.17 DELAY OF OPENING OFFERS.
   When the Town Council makes a written determination that it is in the best
interest of the town, offers may be opened after the time stated in the
solicitation. The date, time, and place of the rescheduled opening must be
announced at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(1992 Code, § 2-233) (Ord. 996, § 1, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 38.18 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
(1992 Code, § 2-234) (Ord. 996, § 1, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 38.19 USE OF RFP FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF SUPPLIES.
   The town determines that:
   (A)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase certain
types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
   (B)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchasing the
following types of supplies: vehicles; motorized equipment (vehicular or
otherwise); road paving materials and services; any purchases expected to
exceed $25,000 or any other purchases specifically so designated by the Town
Council.
(1992 Code, § 2-235) (Ord. 996, § 1, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 38.20 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustment. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustment may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after the
beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under the clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all as
specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed in an other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
      (4)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the Town Council of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under the clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the Town Council in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the Town Council.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of the town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agency may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(1992 Code, § 2-236) (Ord. 996, § 1, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 38.21 PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The town determines that the Clerk-Treasurer and/or Town Council may
purchase services, except for the services of attorneys, in whatever manner the
purchaser determines to be reasonable.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may not require any other department head of any
town agency, department, or office to purchase services in any particular
manner unless so directed by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 2-237) (Ord. 996, passed 8-25-1998)
CHAPTER 39: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
39.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 39.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies of the municipality are hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
      
54.   INDUSTRIAL USERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Town Engineer to set standards for utility permits
   
50.02   Wellhead protection
Utility Rate Advisory Board
   
50.20   Utility Rate Advisory Board established
   
50.21   Advisory Board membership
   
50.22   Officers and meetings
   
50.23   Powers of the Advisory Board
   
50.24   Investigations
   
50.25   No compensation for Board
   
50.26   Removal of Board members
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, trash, and junk, see
Ch. 97
   Yard waste regulations, see
Ch. 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 TOWN ENGINEER TO SET STANDARDS FOR UTILITY PERMITS.
   It shall become the responsibility of the Town Engineer to set standards and
to establish and administer a system of utility permits which will assure the
following:
   (A)   Each utility performing work within the limits of the town’s
jurisdiction shall be monetarily and legally responsible for any damages which
it or its contractors may cause to public improvements;
   (B)   To improve and clarify legal and financial responsibilities of the
utilities, the Town Engineer shall institute a permit program, utilizing a
system of “performance” bonds, which bonds are assigned directly to the town
and which may be invoked by the town if the conditions of the permits are not
fulfilled;
   (C)   The system of fees required for the permits shall be large enough to
reimburse the town for its expenses in administering the program, such that the
program will not constitute a burden upon the taxpayers of the town; and
   (D)   The town shall, at the recommendation of the Town Engineer and as duly
approved by the Town Council, establish certain standards for repair or
replacement of public facilities; the standards being at least as stringent as
those currently required of developers of residential subdivisions within the
limits of the town’s jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 7-126) (Res. 11-27-84-1, passed 11-27-1984)
§ 50.02 WELLHEAD PROTECTION.
   (A)   The town adopts the St. Joseph County Health Department Wellhead
Protection Ordinance, Ord. 103-98, and requests the St. Joseph County Health
Department to administer the Wellhead Protection Program for the benefit of the
community public water system utilized by the town.
   (B)   The community public water system (CPWS) identified as New Carlisle
municipal water utility shall designate and delineate the wellhead protection
area (WHPA) in accordance with criteria established in 327 I.A.C. 8-4-1-5, all
as set forth under Ord. 103-98, St. Joseph County Code subchapter entitled
“Wellhead Protection.”
   (C)   Property owners not exempt under Ord. 103-98, utilities or local units
of government with multiple facilities on several properties shall apply for
and obtain a wellhead protection area permit issued by the St. Joseph County
Health Department in accordance with the terms and provisions of the wellhead
protection area permit holders, as described in Ord. 103-98, and shall comply
with the requirements applicable to all wellhead protection area permit
holders, as described in Ord. 103-98.
   (D)   Upon its passage and approval as required by law, this section shall
be in full force and effect on April 23, 2002, and thereafter.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-23-2002)
UTILITY RATE ADVISORY BOARD
§ 50.20 UTILITY RATE ADVISORY BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is created an advisory board to be known as the “Utility Rate Advisory
Board.”
(1992 Code, § 9-68.4) (Ord. 715, § 6, passed 9-22-1988)
§ 50.21 ADVISORY BOARD MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall consist of 5 members to be appointed by the
Town Council. Members shall meet at least quarterly and as directed by the Town
Council. All members shall be utility users of the town’s utilities.
   (B)   Members shall serve for 4-year terms each; provided, that of the
individuals first selected to serve, 2 members will serve an initial term of 1
year, 2 members will serve an initial term of 2 years, 1 member will serve an
initial term of 4 years. Any vacancy occurring shall be filled for the
remainder of the term of the Town Council. The terms will run from January 1,
1989.
(1992 Code, § 9-68.5) (Ord. 715, § 7, passed 9-22-1988)
§ 50.22 OFFICERS AND MEETINGS.
   The Advisory Board shall select 1 of its members as Chair and 1 of its
members as Secretary. The Board shall meet upon the call of the Chair or upon
the call of any 3 of its members. Meetings shall be open to the public, and
notice of all meetings shall be given in strict compliance with the Indiana
Open Door Law, I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
(1992 Code, § 9-68.6) (Ord. 715, § 8, passed 9-22-1988)
§ 50.23 POWERS OF THE ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Board shall have the responsibility of investigating, gathering
information, deliberating, and advising the Town Council with regard to any
future proposed changes to the general rates and charges for the use of and
services rendered by the municipally owned electric and water utilities, and
with regard to any future proposed capital improvements, the costs of which
would be required to be financed by the issuance of debt instrument by the
town. The Board’s capacity shall be advisory only, and the Town Council shall
not be bound by any recommendations or advice received from the Board. The
Board shall not be required to investigate, deliberate, or advise the Town
Council in regard to any rate increases or decreases in the cost of
electricity, or water from the town’s wholesale suppliers.
(1992 Code, § 9-68.7) (Ord. 715, § 9, passed 9-22-1988)
§ 50.24 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Board shall, in its investigation, deliberation and advice, strive to
advise the Town Council on rates and charges for use of and services rendered
by the municipally owned electric and water utilities, which are
nondiscriminatory, reasonable, and just, and which will produce sufficient
revenue to maintain the utility property in a sound physical and financial
condition to render adequate and efficient service, all in accordance with the
standards as set out in I.C. 8-1.5-3-8. The Board shall have access to all
books, records, financial statements, accounting reports, operating reports,
and other documents which are relevant to their investigation, deliberation,
and advice as to rates and charges meeting the foregoing standards.
(1992 Code, § 9-68.8) (Ord. 715, § 10, passed 9-22-1988)
§ 50.25 NO COMPENSATION FOR BOARD.
   Members of the Utility Rate Advisory Board shall receive no compensation for
their services and shall receive no compensation for their time expended nor
for time lost from work.
(1992 Code, § 9-68.9) (Ord. 715, § 11, passed 9-22-1988)
§ 50.26 REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   The members of the Board may be removed at any time by the Town Council for
cause, with the approval of the majority of the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 9-68.10) (Ord. 715, § 12, passed 9-22-1988)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Rates
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Classes of users
   
51.03   Rates and charges
   
51.04   Determinations used
   
51.05   Sprinkling rates
   
51.06   Laundromat rates
   
51.07   Strength and character; rate adjustment
   
51.08   Billing procedure and delinquent rates
   
51.09   Study of operation
   
51.10   By-laws and regulations
   
51.11   Appeal procedure
   
51.12   Special rate contracts
   
51.13   Effective date
   
51.14   Administrative relief
   
51.15   Inspection of records
   
51.16   Fire protection use
   
51.17   Rates for service outside town limits
   
51.18   Availability of service
   
51.19   No hearing required
   
51.20   Disconnection for late payment; reconnection charge; shut-off notice
   
51.21   Wastewater tap fee
   
51.22   New customer billings
   
51.23   Annual procedure for clearance of bad debts
   
51.24   Sump pump/groundwater surcharge
Sewage Works Regulations
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Prohibited discharges
   
51.37   Permit required
   
51.38   Two classes of building sewer permits
   
51.39   Prohibited discharges into public sewers
   
51.40   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
51.41   Prior approval required
   
51.42   Unpolluted water
   
51.43   Industrial cooling water
   
51.44   Additional information
   
51.45   Strength and samples
   
51.46   Interceptors
   
51.47   Accidental discharges
   
51.48   Compliance with state and federal laws
   
51.49   Vandalism prohibited
   
51.50   Inspections
   
51.51   Administrative relief
   
51.52   Removal of connections
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Industrial users, see
Ch. 54
SEWER RATES
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA or NH3-N. The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The same meaning as defined in the Sewer
Use Ordinance.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). The same meaning as defined
in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use
Ordinance.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle, or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The annual principal and interest payments on all
outstanding and proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage” as defined below.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes, as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   S.S. not more than 250 mg/l;
         (b)   BOD not more than 250 mg/l;
         (c)   Ammonia-nitrogen not more than 25 mg/l; and
         (d)   Phosphorus not more than 10 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from industrial processes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state, and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   PHOSPHORUS. The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.). The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use
Ordinance.
   TOWN. The Town of New Carlisle acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CHARGES. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works pursuant to Section 204(b)
of Public Law 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (such as
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which based on a determination by the town
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for 1 or more persons, including all
dwelling units, and the like.
(1992 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 750, § 1, passed 1-10-1990; Am. Ord. 1310, passed 6-
11-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer Use Ordinance, see §
51.35
§ 51.02 CLASSES OF USERS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be
charged for the service provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency published in the Federal Register February
17, 1984 (40 C.F.R. § 35.2140). Replacement costs, which are recovered through
the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected useful life of the
sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose of
this subchapter shall be as follows:
 
        Residential
        Commercial
Class I Governmental
        Institutional
        Industrial
 
(1992 Code, § 9-2) (Ord. 750, § 2, passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of the service rendered by sewage works, rates and charges
shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real
estate, or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town.
   (B)   The rates and charges include user charges, which rates and charges
shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determined
as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to rates and charges as
the same are measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based
on the size of water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided. In
addition to the treatment rate and base rate, each user shall pay an additional
user charge based on the cost of the wholesale sewage treatment tracking factor
calculation as shown in division (E) below. For the purpose of billing and
collecting the charges for sewage services, the water meters shall be read
monthly and the users shall be billed each month (or period equaling a month).
The water usage schedule on which the amount of the rates and charges shall be
determined is as follows in divisions (1)(a) and (b), plus the wholesale sewage
treatment tracking factor calculation shown in division (E) below:
         (a)   All Class I users. Treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per
month, as set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98, for user charge, debt
service, and total charge; and
         (b)   Base rate per month. As set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter
98 by water meter size for user charge, debt service, and total charge.
      (2)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
where accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which the rates and charges will be
determined is as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, plus the wholesale sewage treatment tracking factor calculation
shown in division (E) below.
   (C)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges established in harmony therewith.
   (D)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town
shall charge the user per sampling event as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, plus the actual cost for collecting and analyzing the sample(s) as
determined by the town or by an independent laboratory. This charge will be
reviewed on the same basis as all other rates and charges in this chapter.
   (E)   Rate adjustment applicable to all Class I users.
      (1)   The rate adjustment shall be on the basis of a purchased sewage
treatment cost adjustment tracking factor, occasioned solely by changes in the
cost of purchased sewage treatment as follows:
         The rate adjustment applicable to the aforementioned rate schedule
shall be $2.206567 per 1,000 gallons used per month.
      (2)   The rate adjustment for all users of the sewage works that are
unmetered water users or where accurate meter readings are not available, the
monthly sewage treatment cost adjustment tracking factor charge shall be
determined by equivalent single family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be determined is as
set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (F)   An owner, prior to connecting to the sewage works shall pay a tap fee
as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. In addition, the owner is responsible for the installation and
connection of the building sewer and the costs associated therewith. The Sewer
Department will inspect before the site is covered up.
   (G)   (1)   An owner shall be charged a deposit based on the water meter
size as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   A renter and lessee deposit based on the meter size shall be
charged to each customer determined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (3)   The deposits will be returned to the customer upon moving from the
building provided the customer is current on their utility bill.
   (H)   Monthly storm water fee.
      (1)   Definitions. For purposes of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The amount of impervious area
included upon an average residential property as determined by the town from
time to time.
         IMPERVIOUS AREA. Those surface areas of residential and non-
residential properties which water will not penetrate and from which storm
water runoff will be produced.
         MULTI-FAMILY. Any lot or parcel in the town on which an apartment
building or other multiple dwelling structure is situated, and the tenant of
each dwelling unit receives an individual utility bill. This shall also include
individual dwelling units attached to non-residential properties if the
individual dwelling unit receives a utility bill. Only utility bills that
include a sewer charge would be charged a storm water utility charge.
         NON-RESIDENTIAL. All properties not encompassed within the definition
of multi-family or residential property, including but not limited to
commercial, industrial, retail, governmental, institutional, schools and
churches.
         RESIDENTIAL. Any lot or parcel existing in the town on which a single
building or mobile home is situated, and one utility bill is sent to the
premises. Only utility bills that include a sewer charge would be charged a
storm water utility charge.
      (2)   Fee schedule. The initial monthly storm water fee is to be paid by
each user and shall be paid according to the following schedule:
 
Type of Property ERU  Monthly Charge
Multi-family     0.75 $3.75
Residential      1.00 $9.21
Non-residential  2.50 $12.50
 
   (I)   (1)   Effective upon adoption of Ord. 1461, a system development
charge will be collected from new customers of the sewage works in accordance
with the schedule set out in
Ch. 98.
      (2)   The town shall collect such rates and charges at the same time and
the same manner as the collection of the sewer tapping fee. These fees may be
modified upon recommendation of the Town Council when investments in sewer
infrastructure made by the developers or private property owners result in
significant enhancement of the capabilities of the town to serve existing or
future customers.
(1992 Code, § 9-3) (Am. Ord. 839, passed 10-13-1992; Am. Ord. 1042, passed 6-
27-2000; Am. Ord. 1173, passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1241, passed 4-26-2011; Am.
Ord. 1265, passed 2-12-2013; Am. Ord. 1336, passed 10-25-2016; Am. Ord. 1461,
passed 1-16-2024)
§ 51.04 DETERMINATIONS USED.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except as
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that the
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building other than a
single family dwelling unit discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
water, or other liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly
or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied by the water utility serving the
town, and the water used thereon or therein is not measured by a water meter,
or is measured by a water meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of
water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to
ascertain the rate or charge provided in this subchapter, the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event 2 or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user, and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event 2 or more dwelling units, such as mobile homes,
apartments, or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, and billing for service is rendered in a single service bill, then in
that case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out
elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than as set
forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98, per month. In the case of mobile home
courts, the number of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as the
total number of mobile home spaces available for rent plus any other dwelling
units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room
or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (F)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and can not enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(1992 Code, § 9-4) (Ord. 750, § 4(a) - (e), passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.05 SPRINKLING RATES.
   In order that single family domestic and residential users of sewage
services shall not be penalized for the sprinkling of lawns during the months
of June, July, and August of each year, the billing for sewage services for
said user shall be based on water usage for the immediately preceding months of
January, February and March. In the event the water usage for said previous
period shall be less than the water usage for the summer months, then the
billing shall be based upon the usage for the January, February and March
period prior to the summer billing period being billed. In the event the water
usage for the January, February and March period prior to the summer billing is
greater than the water usage for said summer period, then the billing for
sewage services shall be computed on the actual water used in the period for
which the sewage service is being rendered. Said sprinkling rate shall not
apply to any premises which are partially or wholly used for commercial or
industrial purposes. In the event a portion of such premises shall be used for
commercial or industrial purposes, the owner shall have the privilege of
separating the water service so that the residential portion of the premises is
served through a separate water meter, and in such case, the water usage as
registered by the water meter serving such portion of the premises used for
residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
(1992 Code, § 9-5) (Ord. 750, § 4(f), passed 1-10-1990; Am. Ord. 1310, passed
6-11-2015)
§ 51.06 LAUNDROMAT RATES.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the service rendered, the town shall base the sewage rate upon 90% of the water
usage per quarter for any laundromat doing business within the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 761, § 13(g), passed 2-13-1990)
§ 51.07 STRENGTH AND CHARACTER; RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary
sewage system, in such manner, by such method, and at such times as the town
may deem practicable in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of
the case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a
central sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed suspended
solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid, biochemical oxygen
demand in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid, ammonia-nitrogen in
excess of 25 milligrams per liter of fluid, or phosphorus in excess of 10
milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger-than-
normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge as set forth in the
Fee Schedule, Chapter 98 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid;
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
as set forth in the
Fee Schedule, Chapter 98 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD
received in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid;
      (3)   Rate surcharge based upon ammonia-nitrogen. There shall be an
additional charge as set forth in the
Fee Schedule, Chapter 98 per pound of ammonia-nitrogen received in excess of 25
milligrams per liter of fluid; and
      (4)   Rate surcharge based upon phosphorus. There shall be an additional
charge as set forth in the
Fee Schedule, Chapter 98 per pound of phosphorus received in excess of 10
milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids, 5-day carbonaceous biochemical
oxygen demand, biochemical oxygen demand, ammonia-nitrogen, phosphorus, and COD
contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of Standard
Methods for the Elimination of Water, Sewage, and Industrial Wastes, as written
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in accordance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, 40 C.F.R.
Part 136.
(1992 Code, § 9-7) (Ord. 750, § 5, passed 1-10-1990; Am. Ord. 1042, passed 6-
27-2000; Am. Ord. 1173, passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1310, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 51.08 BILLING PROCEDURE AND DELINQUENT RATES.
   (A)   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise required in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as here required.
   (D)   The owners of properties served, which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
such records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
   (E)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid by the
fifteenth day of the month following receipt are hereby declared to be
delinquent and a penalty as set forth in the
Fee Schedule, Chapter 98, shall thereupon attach thereto.
(1992 Code, § 9-8) (Ord. 750, § 6, passed 1-10-1990; Am. Ord. 1310, passed 6-
11-2015)
§ 51.09 STUDY OF OPERATION.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first 2 years of operation,
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. The study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the cost associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements, and capital improvements to the
wastewater treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity, and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies
shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town or by a firm of
certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers, which firms
shall have experience in the studies, or by the combination of officers,
employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon completion
of the study, revise and adjust the rates and charges, as necessary, in
accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency
of the rates.
(1992 Code, § 9-9) (Ord. 750, § 7, passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.10 BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce the by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, the sewage collection system and for the regulation, collection, and
rebating and refunding of the rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require method-affecting
pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works or as contained in the EPA General Pretreatment Regulations,
40 C.F.R. part 403 and any amendments thereto or the town’s Pretreatment
Program Plan, or the Pretreatment Regulations of the City of South Bend.
(1992 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 750, § 8, passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.11 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval by the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the
sewage system and user charge system or user charges of the Town Council may be
appealed to the Circuit Court of the county under the appeal procedures
provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(1992 Code, § 9-11) (Ord. 750, § 9, passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.12 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is further authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
customers of the sewage works where clearly definable reduction in cost to the
sewage works can be determined, and the reduction shall be limited to the
reduced costs.
(1992 Code, § 9-13) (Ord. 750, § 11, passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The rates and charges as herein set forth shall become effective on the
first full billing period occurring after the adoption of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 9-14) (Ord. 750, § 12, passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.14 ADMINISTRATIVE RELIEF.
   Any person who believes himself or herself aggrieved through the enforcement
of this subchapter has the right to seek administrative relief before the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-15) (Ord. 750, § 13, passed 1-10-1990)
§ 51.15 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The owners of the property served which are occupied by tenants shall have
the right to examine the collection records of the town for the purpose of
determining whether the rates and charges have been paid by the tenants,
provided that the examination shall be made at the office at which the records
are kept and during the hours that the office is open for business.
(1992 Code, § 9-17)
§ 51.16 FIRE PROTECTION USE.
   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as for
other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make such adjustments in the
minimum charge and in the use charge as may be equitable.
(1992 Code, § 9-18)
§ 51.17 RATES FOR SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   The rates and charges fixed herein shall apply to lots, parcels, or
real estate and/or buildings located within the limits of the town.
   (B)   For service rendered by the sewage disposal works to lots, parcels of
real estate, or buildings located outside the limits of the town, the rates and
charges, including minimum charge, shall be up to a maximum of 150% of those
rates and charges established herein, except and unless the town enters into a
contract with persons who are using the sewage disposal services, whereby the
terms of the contract set the minimum charge, providing the terms are fair and
equitable, and all other provisions herein set out shall be applicable to the
users located outside the limits of the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-19) (Ord. 521, § 1, passed - -1979)
§ 51.18 AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   Sanitary sewerage service is available when a sanitary sewer is located in
any street or alley or adjacent to or within 300 feet of any lot or parcel of
real estate.
(1992 Code, § 9-20)
§ 51.19 NO HEARING REQUIRED.
   These rates and charges shall be extended to and cover any additional
premises thereafter served, without the necessity of any hearing or notice.
(1992 Code, § 9-21)
§ 51.20 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT; RECONNECTION CHARGE; SHUT- OFF NOTICE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within 10
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as
set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §§
52.07,
53.22
(1992 Code, § 9-22)
§ 51.21 WASTEWATER TAP FEE.
   The wastewater tap fee shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 9-23) (Ord. 994, § 1, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 51.22 NEW CUSTOMER BILLINGS.
   All new customers shall be billed for an estimated usage of 12,500 gallons
for a flat rate on their initial billing, with the next billing being adjusted
accordingly.
(1992 Code, § 9-24)
§ 51.23 ANNUAL PROCEDURE FOR CLEARANCE OF BAD DEBTS.
   (A)   When a utility bill is delinquent 6 months, Form #30, Notice of
Authorization to File Suit, is sent to the customer.
   (B)   A 15-day waiting period is required before the Town Council approves
action in 1 of the following:
      (1)   Charge off completely. If the customer has either moved out of
state, left no forwarding address, filed bankruptcy or the amount owed is not
sufficient to warrant an attorney’s action (under $50), the account is removed
from the active accounts.
      (2)   Place a sewer lien against the property. This procedure requires a
lien to be recorded, contacting the customer by letter and sending a release
notice to the County Recorder if the delinquent bill is paid within 30 days
after the lien is recorded. If the bill is not paid within 30 days, it is sent
to the County Auditor for placement on the fall tax bill. When the Auditor
collects the charge, the town’s portion is sent to the town.
      (3)   Send to the attorney for collection. (Policy approved at the 10-22-
1991 Town Council meeting.)
(1992 Code, § 9-25)
Statutory reference:
   Sewer lien, see I.C. 36-9-23
§ 51.24 SUMP PUMP/GROUNDWATER SURCHARGE.
   A surcharge per month for residential properties and for commercial
properties, as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, is hereby imposed on every sewer bill to property owners who are
not in compliance with §
51.52. The surcharge shall be added every month, until the property is in
compliance. The imposition of the surcharge shall in no way limit the right of
the town to seek an injunction in District Court ordering the property owner to
disconnect the nonconforming connection to the sanitary sewer system or from
pursuing any other legal remedies available.
(Ord. 1202, passed 12- -2008)
SEWAGE WORKS REGULATIONS
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AMMONIA or NH3-N. The same as ammonia-nitrogen measured as nitrogen. The
laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth
in Standard Methods as defined in this section.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes, shall mean the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for 5
days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to a point approximately
5 feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
         (a)   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY. A building drain which conveys
sanitary or industrial sewage only.
         (b)   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM. A building drain which conveys storm
water or other clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
      BUILDING OR HOUSE LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to
the sewerage system or other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE
CONNECTIONS).
         (a)   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys
sanitary or industrial sewage only.
         (b)   BUILDING SEWER - STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm
water or other clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
      CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). Five-day measure at
pollutant parameters CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters, or industrial wastes, is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat the pollutants and in fact
does remove the pollutants to a substantial degree. The term “substantial
degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; or
         (e)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited, where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana, or any
duly authorized officials or Boards acting in its behalf.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator
of pollution.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
      GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage, or sale of produce.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids, and further defined in
40 C.F.R. part 403.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substances or form of
energy discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial,
manufacturing, commercial, or business process or from the development,
recovery or processing of any natural resource carried on any person, and shall
further mean any waste from an industrial sewer.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
      INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leader,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-
connections from storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters,
surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is
distinguishable from infiltration.
      INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town through its
Town Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A contributor that:
         (a)   Has a flow of more than 25,000 gallons per average workday;
         (b)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) of the Clean Water Act or state statutes and rules;
         (c)   Has a flow greater than 5% of flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste; and/or
         (d)   Is found by the town, State Control Agency or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) to have significant impact, either
singly or in connection with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air
emissions generated by the system.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the
Sewer Rate Ordinance.
      NPDES PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to 33 U.S.C. §
1342.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership,
copartnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise government agency, the State of Indiana, the United
States of America, or other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration.
The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of
solution.
      PHOSPHORUS (P). The chemical element phosphorus, total phosphorus
laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth
in Standard Methods as defined in this section.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing the pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, process changes
or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d); and shall
include all applicable rules and regulations contained in the Code of Federal
Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under 33 U.S.C. § 1317, under
regulation 40 C.F.R. part 403 pursuant to the Act, and amendments.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by public authority.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public
authority and will consist of the following increments.
         (a)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
         (b)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
         (c)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
         (d)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system
at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and
to which storm, surface, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions
(including polluted cooling water). The 3 most common types of sewage are:
         (a)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
         (b)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water); and
         (c)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary pumping facilities.
      SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated solids.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 5 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration of
flow during normal operation and which adversely affects the sewage works.
      STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest
edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, the American Water Works Association, and The Water
Pollution Control Federation.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, groundwater, or unpolluted
water from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.). Solids which either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
      TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
      TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological
manifestations, as defined in standards issued pursuant to the Clean Water Act
(33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.).
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
      WASTEWATER. Water in which sewage has been discharged.
      WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
   (B)   Any terms not defined herein, but defined in the Sewer Rate Ordinance
in §
51.01 shall have the same meaning therein.
(1992 Code, § 9-29) (Ord. 756, § 1, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.36 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted industrial
water.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use the sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town.
   (D)   No new connection shall be made unless there is capacity available to
all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD, S.S., ammonia, and phosphorus.
   (E)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (G)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (H)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary of the town, is required at his or her expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided
that the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(1992 Code, § 9-30) (Ord. 756, § 2, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.36(H), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Public
Works Director. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the town at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Director. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Public Works Director when the work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48
hours of the receipt of notice by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the St. Joseph County
Health Department and comply with the recommendations of the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management as set forth in Bulletins SE 8, SE 13 and
subsequent amendments and policy guidelines thereto. No permit shall be issued
for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than 15,000 square feet. No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Public Works
Director.
(1992 Code, § 9-31) (Ord. 756, § 3, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38 TWO CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing material
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee shall
be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except, where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as 1 building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Public Works Director, to
meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a
building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
joint testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements
of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of
the town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement drains,
sump pumps, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
    (I)   The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No.
9. All the connections shall be gas tight and water tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Public Works
Director before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Public
Works Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The construction shall be made under the supervision of
the Public Works Director or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-32) (Ord. 756, § 4, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.39 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to a public sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structure, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works, or that interferes
with any treatment process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
      (5)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater works,
or to exceed the limitations set forth in the applicable Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or other pretreatment standards or regulations issued by
USEPA or the IDEM. Toxic pollutants are identified pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a), as amended.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Council that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the Council will
give consideration to the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process,
capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F or 0°C and
65°C;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower
(0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Council;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Town Engineer for the materials. Under no circumstances shall a
discharger release water or wastes containing concentrations of the following
substances in amounts exceeding the stated value:
 
Parameter 1-Day Maximum 4-Day Average
Arsenic   1.0           0.2
Cadmium   2.7           1.2
Copper    5.0           3.5
Parameter 1-Day Maximum 4-Day Average
Parameter      1-Day Maximum 4-Day Average
Cyanide        1.5           0.5
Lead           2.0           0.8
Mercury        0.1           0.005
Nickel         5.0           2.5
Total chromium 7.5           5.0
Zinc           10.0          6.0
*All units mg/l
 
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Council as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Council in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert S.S. (such as, but not limited
to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids
(such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual S.S., DBOD, BOD, ammonia, ammonia-nitrogen, phosphorus,
or chlorine requirements in quantities as to constitute a significant load on
the sewage treatment works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in §
51.35.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent can not meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and/or
      (11)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit
to be deposited or discharged in any manner whatsoever, any substance into a
sewer at a point different than the proposed sewer connection to the sanitary
sewer system.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (B) of this section, and
which in the judgment of the Council may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Council may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of the wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage as defined;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of the wastes so as to avoid
any slug loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
and/or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating the wastes.
   (D)   If the Council permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Board and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (F)   When required by the Town Engineer, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer, to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Town Engineer.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times. Agents
of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies, and the USEPA shall be
permitted to enter all properties at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
   (G)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
water and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at the control manhole, except for application for NPDES
permits and report thereof such shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA, 40 C.F.R. part 136 and any subsequent
revisions subject to approval by the town.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property.
      (3)   The particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and S.S. analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance codified
in §§
51.01 through
51.24.
(1992 Code, § 9-33) (Ord. 756, § 5, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the Rules and
Regulations adopted by the USEPA (40 C.F.R. part 403), and Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants (40 C.F.R. part 136),
in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the town or the
City of South Bend, subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and
regulations.
(1992 Code, § 9-34) (Ord. 756, § 6, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.41 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town,
and no construction of facilities shall be commenced until approval in writing
is granted. Where facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance with the
applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the
treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(1992 Code, § 9-35) (Ord. 756, § 7, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems, or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available.
Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to a natural outlet
approved by the town and by the State of Indiana. Where a storm sewer or
natural sewer is not available, the unpolluted water may be discharged to a
sanitary sewer pending written approval by the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-36) (Ord. 756, § 8, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.43 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.42.
(1992 Code, § 9-37) (Ord. 756, § 9, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.44 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-38) (Ord. 756, § 10, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.45 STRENGTH AND SAMPLES.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the Sewer Rate Ordinance, from samplings taken at
the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of a duration and in a
manner as the town may elect, or at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be
assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling
and analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges after
verification by the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-39) (Ord. 756, § 11, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.46 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors or traps will not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They shall be
constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme
changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be gas tight
and equipped with easily removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil,
and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (B)   Specifications for grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be in
accordance with §§ 711, 712, 713 of the Indiana Plumbing Rules, most recent
edition (660 I.A.C. 9) originally published as (4 IR 2398), which identifies,
amends, and incorporates therein the Indiana Plumbing Code. Copies of the
aforementioned code and rules, regulations and codes adopted herein by
reference are on file as required by law with the Building Commissioner.
(1992 Code, § 9-40) (Ord. 756, § 12, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.47 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(1992 Code, § 9-40.1) (Ord. 756, § 13, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.48 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(1992 Code, § 9-40.2) (Ord. 756, § 14, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.49 VANDALISM PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
(1992 Code, § 9-40.3) (Ord. 756, § 15, passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.50 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director, Inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties at all reasonable hours for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter. The Public Works Director or his or her
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including
metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A), the Public Works Director or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.39(F).
   (C)   (1)   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1992 Code, § 9-40.4) (Ord. 756, § 16, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.51 ADMINISTRATIVE RELIEF.
   Any person who believes himself or herself aggrieved through the enforcement
of this chapter has the right to seek administrative relief before the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-40.6) (Ord. 756, § 18, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 51.52 REMOVAL OF CONNECTIONS.
   Any property owner who previously made any connection or installation in
violation of the sump pump/groundwater standards of this chapter shall
immediately remove the connection or correct such an installation. If not
removed or corrected within 30 calendar days after notice of the violation has
been delivered personally or by certified mail to the owner, the town shall
impose a surcharge in the amount set forth in §
51.24 and Chapter 98. Such a surcharge shall also be imposed upon any property
owner, after a 30-calendar day notice has been delivered, if the owner refuses
to allow his or her property to be inspected. The owner of a building or
premises found to be not in conformance with this chapter during periodic re-
inspections shall be subjected to a surcharge as provided, starting from the
previous date of inspection.
(Ord. 1202, passed 12- -2008)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
51.35 through
51.51 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a violation and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount for each violation as set forth
in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.35 through
51.51 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by the town by reason of the violation.
(1992 Code, § 9-40.5) (Ord. 756, § 17, passed 1-23-1990)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Water Utility Rates and Charges
   
52.01   Rates and charges
   
52.02   Minimum charges for use of Cleveland Cliffs facilities
   
52.03   Fire protection service for use of Cleveland Cliffs facilities
   
52.04   Municipal fountains for use of Cleveland Cliffs facilities
   
52.05   Tap fee: governmental and not-for-profit organizations for use of SJEC
and Cleveland Cliffs facilities
   
52.06   Billings
   
52.07   Collection and deferred payment charges; shut-off
   
52.08   Water meter deposits
   
52.09   New customer billings
   
52.10   Miscellaneous charges and deposits
   
52.11   Landscape sprinkling accounts
   
52.12   Termination of service
   
52.13   Rental property policy
   
52.14   System development charge for use of SJEC and Cleveland Cliffs
facilities
   
52.15   Fire hydrant usage and backflow prevention and fire hydrant water use
permit process
Water Main Extension and Water Regulations
   
52.20   Individual water main extension
   
52.21   Extension of 50 feet or more
   
52.22   Special extension procedure
   
52.23   Refunds
   
52.24   Construction to meet local requirements
   
52.25   Water mains; property of water utility
   
52.26   Tapping charge to be made
   
52.27   Management agency for an area-wide water treatment
   
52.28   Cross-connection control program
Rates and Charges for Industrial Water Users
   
52.40   Incorporation by reference
   
52.41   Schedule of rates and charges for industrial water users
Water Service Area
   
52.60   Establishment
Cross-reference:
   Industrial water users, regulations, see
Ch. 54
WATER UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for water use,
the meters shall be read monthly, and the users shall be billed monthly.
   (B)   The town hereby wishes to establish 2 different rate structures, 1 for
service from the water facilities in and around the St. Joseph Energy Center,
LLC (SJEC) property and a second for those customers served from the water
production and treatment facilities located near Cleveland Cliffs.
   (C)   The rates and charges include user charges which rates and charges
shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount as set out
in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 9-43) (Ord. 554, § 1(a), passed - -1980; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 9-
26-2000; Am. Ord. 1176, passed 8-28-2007; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011; Am.
Ord. 1340, passed 12-29-2016; Am. Ord. 1462, passed 1-16-2024; Am. Ord. 1479,
passed 12-17-2024)
§ 52.02 MINIMUM CHARGES FOR USE OF CLEVELAND CLIFFS FACILITIES.
   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the applicable size
of meter installed, as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, for which the user will be entitled to the quantity of water set
out in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 9-44) (Am. Ord. 1050, passed 9-26-2000; Am. Ord. 1176, passed 8-
28-2007; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1340, passed 12-29-2016; Am.
Ord. 1462, passed 1-16-2024; Am. Ord. 1479, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 52.03 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE FOR USE OF CLEVELAND CLIFFS FACILITIES.
   The following charges shall be made, effective on the first full billing
after adoption of Ord. 1479:
   (A)   Municipal hydrants - per hydrant - per annum: as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98;
   (B)   Private hydrants - per hydrant - per annum: as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98; and
   (C)   Private sprinklers:
      (1)   Four-inch connection: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (2)   Six-inch connection: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (3)   Eight-inch connection: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98; and
      (4)   Ten-inch connection: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 9-45) (Ord. 554, § 1(c), passed - -1980; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 9-
26-2000; Am. Ord. 1176, passed 8-28-2007; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011; Am.
Ord. 1340, passed 12-29-2016; Am. Ord. 1462, passed 1-16-2024; Am. Ord. 1479,
passed 12-17-2024)
§ 52.04 MUNICIPAL FOUNTAINS FOR USE OF CLEVELAND CLIFFS FACILITIES.
   Effective on the first full billing after adoption of Ord. 1479, the annual
charge per fountain shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 9-46) (Ord. 554, passed - -1980; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 9-26-2000;
Am. Ord. 1176, passed 8-28-2007; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord.
1340, passed 12-29-2016; Am. Ord. 1462, passed 1-16-2024; Am. Ord. 1479, passed
12-17-2024)
§ 52.05 TAP FEE: GOVERNMENTAL AND NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS FOR USE OF SJEC
AND CLEVELAND CLIFFS FACILITIES.
   (A)   A tap charge shall be collected from each customer prior to connection
to the water system, in an amount equal to the cost of labor and material
necessary for tapping the main and installation of service from the main to the
curb stop, and the cost of furnishing and installing a suitable water meter, as
set forth in this section. These rates are effective on the first full billing
after adoption of this section. The charge for a 5/8" - 3/4" meter shall be in
the amount set out in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. The charge for a 1" or larger meter shall be as set out in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (B)   The responsibility for making the tap and the costs associated
therewith shall be borne by the owner in accordance with the standards
established below in division (C). All taps to be done by a registered licensed
contractor.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   All taps will be made using tapping saddles. No direct taps will be
allowed on any water main. No taps less than 1 inch.
      (2)   Copper to be used from the corp. to the curb stop, 2 inch and
under. Over 2 inch will be ductile iron.
      (3)   The Water Department will inspect before the site is covered up.
(1992 Code, § 9-47) (Ord. 554, § 1(e), passed - -1980; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 9-
26-2000; Am. Ord. 1060, passed 12-19-2000; Am. Ord. 1176, passed 8-28-2007; Am.
Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1340, passed 12-29-2016; Am. Ord. 1462,
passed 1-16-2024; Am. Ord. 1479, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 52.06 BILLINGS.
   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for water use, the
meters shall be read monthly and the user shall be billed monthly.
(1992 Code, § 9-48) (Ord. 554, § 4, passed - -1980)
§ 52.07 COLLECTION AND DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGES; SHUT-OFF.
   (A)   All bills shall be due and payable monthly and bills unpaid more than
15 days following the date of billing shall include a collection charge as set
forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98.
   (B)   An additional service charge as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 shall be collected for turning off or turning on thereafter any
water service that is delinquent in payment.
(Ord. 489(f), passed - -1978)
   (C)   If payment has not been received by the next month’s billing date, a
written shut-off notice shall be sent by the town to the delinquent customer.
(1992 Code, § 9-49)
§ 52.08 WATER METER DEPOSITS.
   The minimum charge for deposits on water meters shall be as set forth in the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 for all water meter users.
(1992 Code, § 9-50) (Ord. 576, passed - -1981)
§ 52.09 NEW CUSTOMER BILLINGS.
   All new customers shall be billed for an estimated usage of 12,500 gallons
for a flat rate on their initial billing, with the next billing being adjusted
accordingly.
(1992 Code, § 9-51)
§ 52.10 MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Miscellaneous fees.
      (1)   Shut off/turn on: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   After hours emergencies shut off/turn on: as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (3)   Frozen meter charge: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (4)   Check for leaks inside plumbing (faucets, toilets, and the like):
as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (B)   (1)   Resident homeowner meter deposit based on meter size as set
forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   Renters and leases meter deposit based on meter size as set forth
in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (3)   The deposits will be returned to the customer when they move
provided they are current on their utility bill.
(Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 52.11 LANDSCAPE SPRINKLING ACCOUNTS.
   All sprinkling account will be active from April 1 to October 1. If there is
no usage, a minimum charge will be billed.
(Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 52.12 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)    Utility service provided to an occupied dwelling, or other occupied
facility, may not be terminated because of the failure of the customer to pay
their utility bill until 14 days after the utility serves notice upon the
customer of its intent to terminate said service. Said notice shall be in the
form of a past due notice.
   (B)   The past due notice must, in separate numbered paragraphs:
      (1)   Indicate the date on which service will be terminated;
      (2)   State the reason and factual basis for termination of service;
      (3)   List the telephone number of the town office that customers may
call during business hours in order to question the proposed termination of
service or to seek information concerning their rights; and
      (4)   State that customers may appeal the termination of service decision
and may refer to the notice for information as to their rights.
   (C)   Service of a past due notice under this section must be made by:
      (1)   First class mail addressed to the customer at the address listed
for the customer in the records of the utility; or
      (2)   Personal delivery posted in a conspicuous location at the service
address.
   (D)   No notice may be served before the date on which the customer's
account becomes delinquent.
   (E)   The Town Council shall designate a person or persons as hearing
officer(s) to hear appeals filed by utility customers. Customers shall be
notified of the date, time and place of the agreed hearing at least 5 days
before the date of the hearing by first-class mail to the customer's address.
At the hearing, the hearing officer shall promptly issue a decision based on
the evidence.
   (F)   After following the appeal provisions set forth above, unless the
hearing officer rules otherwise, utility service, whether it be electric,
water, wastewater or any combination thereof, provided to a residential
customer at one metering point, residence or location, may be disconnected for
failure to pay for utility service whether it be electric, water or wastewater,
or any combination thereof, provided to the same metering point, residence or
location if such bill has remained unpaid for at least 45 days.
(Ord. 1305, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 52.13 RENTAL PROPERTY POLICY.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2015, all new contracts for municipal utility
users for properties that are operated as rental properties shall be made
between the municipal utility and the property owner (landlord). All costs
related to providing water and sewer service to such rental properties shall be
the responsibility of the property owner instead of the renter (tenant). It
shall be the responsibility of the property owner to seek reimbursement for
these costs from the tenant, if the property owner so chooses.
   (B)   In the event a property owner chooses to renegotiate the rental
contract with a current tenant so as to comply with §
52.12 without waiting for a change in tenant, then all outstanding amounts due
and owing the municipal utility for that account shall be paid prior to the
municipal utility billing change.
(Ord. 1305, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 52.14 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE FOR USE OF SJEC AND CLEVELAND CLIFFS
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Effective upon adoption of Ord. 1479, a system development charge will
be collected from new customers of the water utility in accordance with the fee
schedule set out in
Ch. 98 of this code.
   (B)   The town shall collect such rates and charges at the same time and the
same manner as the collection of the water tapping fee. The above system
development fees may be modified upon recommendation of the Town Council when
investments in water infrastructure made by the developers or private property
owners result in significant enhancement of the capabilities of the town to
serve existing or future customers.
(Ord. 1462, passed 1-16-2024; Am. Ord. 1479, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 52.15 FIRE HYDRANT USAGE AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND FIRE HYDRANT WATER USE
PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   A fire hydrant water use permit is required for any water use from
fire hydrants. Suitable uses of water withdrawn from hydrants include
construction and associated activities.
   (B)   Permits are valid only for the town fire hydrant identified by the
Department of Public Works for bulk water usage and only as directed and may be
revoked by the Department of Public Works for failure of the applicant to
comply with the terms of this section and all policies and procedures adopted
by the Department of Public Works regulating fire hydrant use and backflow
prevention.
   (C)   An application and a non-refundable hydrant water use permit
application fee, as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 will be required from all contractors and individuals prior to
obtaining a fire hydrant water use permit. A copy of the contractor's proof of
insurance must be included with the application and fee.
   (D)   A refundable security deposit in the amount set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98 for a 3-inch meter w/RPZ will be required from all contractors and
individuals prior to obtaining a fire hydrant water use permit. This deposit
will be refunded when the meter has been returned and all bills have been paid
to include water usage and if necessary, the costs of any damage to the meter,
fire hydrants, or the water system. A separate permit and deposit are required
for each hydrant meter permitted.
   (E)   The hydrant to be used will be assigned by the Department of Public
Works. Only the assigned hydrant may be used. Only one connection is allowed
per hydrant. Prior to any withdrawal of water, an inspection of truck(s) to be
used is required. Air gap is required for top loads and backflow prevention for
all others. Trucks will be inspected using an inspection checklist and a fire
hydrant water use permit sticker will be issued and is required on each truck
approved to pull water. Loading hours will be between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time with special hours by prior arrangement only.
   (F)   A photo of the current meter reading and serial number must be sent to
ar@townofnewcarlisle.com when hydrant water withdrawal is complete. For meters
being kept for a period longer than one month, readings must be provided for
billing water consumption at the end of each month. The hydrant user should
email a photo of the meter displaying the current reading and the meter serial
number to ar@townofnewcarlisle.com by the thirtieth of each month, regardless
of the amount of water usage.
   (G)   There will be a penalty in an amount set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, assessed for failure to submit meter readings by the fifth day of
the month. In addition, if permit holders habitually neglect to email their
readings by the thirtieth of the month, or if meter readings are not submitted
at all for the month, the permit may be revoked, and the deposit forfeited.
   (H)   If the meter, chamber, or any part of the fire hydrant meter has been
tampered with a fee in an amount set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 will be added to the account.
   (I)   The applicant will be charged for all water consumed on the permitted
meter at the outside town rate posted in the current water rate schedule as set
forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, §
52.01(B) (Outside Users).
   (J)   Billing invoices will be prepared on the fifth day of the month and
all outstanding invoices must be paid by the twentieth of the month. Meters
will be monitored by Public Works Department staff. Payment on the account is
required by the due date shown on the bill. If payment is not made by that
date, a late payment penalty in an amount set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, may be assessed on the account. Delinquent accounts are subject to
a service charge and the applicant will be asked to return the meter. Failure
to return the meter can result in the applicant forfeiting their deposit and
criminal charges being filed for theft of the meter. The remaining delinquent
amount may be reported to a collection agency and/or Credit Bureau.
   (K)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person and/or business
that owns or operates the tanker truck, tank, container, etc., shall be
permanently lettered on both sides of the vehicle. A fire hydrant water use
permit shall be visible on all trucks used for water withdrawal.
   (L)   All fire hydrant operation shall be consistent with the Standard
Plumbing Code in regard to backflow prevention. Hoses attached to hydrants
shall not be submerged, left unsecured, or left unattended at any time while
they are attached to a fire hydrant. A minimum "air gap" equal to 2.0 times the
outlet diameter of the hose shall be maintained at all times above the
container overflow level. The connection to the fire hydrant shall also include
the utilization of the backflow prevention assembly furnished with the meter to
prevent backflows.
   (M)   Due to limitations of the water distribution system, use of fire
hydrants for other than firefighting purposes may be limited in some areas. In
addition, during times of water main breaks, system demand, or other system
emergencies, the Department of Public Works reserves the right to suspend the
privilege of any and all fire hydrant water use permit holders to obtain water
from the system. The Department of Public Works reserves the right to refuse
use of a fire hydrant without justification.
   (N)   The permit holder assumes all liability for any and all damages to
individuals, private property, public property, and/or repairs to the
Department of Public Works facilities and appurtenances arising out of actions
taken by the permit holder to obtain water from the system using a fire
hydrant. In addition, the permit holder is responsible for any and all damages
to the hydrant meter due to theft, vandalism, weather, etc. If the meter is
stolen, a police report must be filed and a copy of said report is required.
   (O)   Hydrant operation procedures have been set by the Department of Public
Works in a document entitled New Carlisle Water Department Hydrant Usage and
Backflow Prevention Program - Fire Hydrant Connection and Water Use Policies
and Procedures Manual, which is available at the Clerk-Treasurer's office.
These policies and procedures must be followed during use of fire hydrants. The
Department of Public Works will perform random inspections to ensure
compliance.
   (P)   Each day of violation of this section, and each instance of illegal
tapping, tampering, or damaging of a town water supply source or fire hydrant
owned and maintained by the town, shall constitute a separate offense. Any
person, corporation, or other entity in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine and penalty in an amount set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (Q)   In addition to fines or penalties provided in this section, any
person, corporation, or entity in violation of any provision of this section
shall become liable to the town for any resulting expense, loss or damage
caused to the town, including but not limited to, any corrective action, clean
up, evacuation, administrative costs, legal fees and court costs, investigative
costs and labor and overtime costs.
(Ord. 1464, passed 4-2-2024)
WATER MAIN EXTENSION AND WATER REGULATIONS
§ 52.20 INDIVIDUAL WATER MAIN EXTENSION.
   Water mains shall be extended free and unconditionally from existing mains
on an average distance exclusive of street and alley intersection crossings,
not in excess of 50 feet, if necessary, for each individual permanent active
consumer having a completed permanent building or dwelling, complying with
existing building and zoning regulations along the line of the extension upon
written application for the extension and permanent service therefrom.
(1992 Code, § 9-57)
§ 52.21 EXTENSION OF 50 FEET OR MORE.
   (A)   When a prospective permanent consumer or a group of prospective
permanent active consumers make written application for the extension of an
existing main for a greater length than an average of 50 feet for each
prospective active consumer, exclusive of street and alley intersections
crossings, and for permanent service from the extension, then the extension
shall be made free of charge, if the estimated total revenue for a period of 5
years from the prospective permanent consumer or consumers therefrom is equal
to the entire cost of the extension.
   (B)   This is provided, however, that the town’s water utility is in a
financial position to extend the extensions at the time and date requested, and
if in the opinion of the water utility that the funds are not needed for more
urgent developments or improvements.
(1992 Code, § 9-58)
§ 52.22 SPECIAL EXTENSION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the extension required in order to furnish service at any point
within the corporate limits of the town is not within the scope of §§
52.20 or
52.21, then the extension shall be made under the following conditions: The
person, persons, firm, or corporation demanding the extensions shall advance to
the water utility of the town the sum of the entire estimated cost of the
extension, not including the cost of crossings, street and alley intersections
not included in the cost of the installation of fire hydrants and valves.
   (B)   The town shall refund to the person, person, firm, or corporation
making the advancement, the cost of 50 feet of the extension for each permanent
consumer tapping the same until the full sum deposited is refunded without
interest.
   (C)   The refund in each case shall be made at the rate of 10% of the cost
of each 50 feet of main extension semi-annually until the full amount of the
refund for each new consumer has been made.
(1992 Code, § 9-59)
§ 52.23 REFUNDS.
   (A)   The total aggregate refund for new consumers or on account of new
consumer construction shall not exceed the total amount advanced.
   (B)   No refunds shall be made after the termination of the twenty-fifth
year from the date of acceptance by the Town Council of the application of the
main extension.
   (C)   The water utility of the town reserves the right that the refund of
the advancement herein above mentioned shall be paid only to the person,
persons, firm, or corporation making the advancement and the claim for refund
of the advancement shall not be assignable, but the advancement may be paid to
the proper heirs or successors of the person, persons, firm, or corporation,
upon proper presentation of the necessary proof of the heirship or
successorship.
   (D)   It is further resolved that the refunding of money or monies advanced
to the water utility of the town shall be made subject to any prior or
subsequent bonded indebtedness that the water utility may incur.
(1992 Code, § 9-60)
§ 52.24 CONSTRUCTION TO MEET LOCAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Application for main extensions and service in accordance with the above
sections shall be in the form prescribed by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 9-61)
§ 52.25 WATER MAINS; PROPERTY OF WATER UTILITY.
   (A)   Water main extensions shall be made in accordance with the
requirements and specifications of the Town Council of the town.
   (B)   Water main extensions made in accordance with §§
52.20 through
52.22 shall be and become a part of the municipal waterworks system of the
town, and shall be and remain the property of the water utility of the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-62)
§ 52.26 TAPPING CHARGE TO BE MADE.
   A connection or tapping charge will be made by the town for each new
connection in accordance with ordinances and/or resolutions in effect at the
time connections are made, regardless of an advancement being made for the main
construction and/or extension.
(1992 Code, § 9-63)
§ 52.27 MANAGEMENT AGENCY FOR AN AREA-WIDE WATER TREATMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be the management agency for storm water
runoff, construction activities, residual waste activities, and municipal
wastewater treatment facilities.
   (B)   The Council shall assume all of its required responsibility in its
area of jurisdiction as contained in the MACOG Water Quality Management Plan.
(1992 Code, § 9-64) (Res. 486, passed - -1978)
§ 52.28 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AIR-GAP. An unobstructed vertical distance through atmosphere between the
discharge end of a pipeline supplied from a public water supply and the
overflow rim of the receiving portion of the customer water system.
      COMMISSIONER. The executive and the chief administrative officer of the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement, including cross-connection
control devices not in working order, whereby a public water supply
distribution system is directly connected, either continuously or
intermittently, with any secondary source of supply, sewer, drain, conduit,
pool, piping, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device which is
capable of imparting to the public water supply, contaminants, contaminated
water, sewage, or other waste or liquid of unknown or unsafe quality.
      CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL INSPECTOR. A person who has successfully
completed training in testing and inspection of cross-connection control
devices at an agency or school acceptable to the Commissioner of the Department
of Environmental Management.
      DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A device or assembly composed of 2 tightly
closing shut-off valves surrounding 2 independently acting check valves, with 4
test cocks, 1 upstream of the 4 valves and 1 between each of the 4 check and
shut-off valves.
      DOWNSTREAM. The normal direction of water flow from the public supply to
the user. Upstream is that direction which is opposite of DOWNSTREAM.
      HAZARD. The danger of public water contamination caused by chemical,
bacteriological, or other sources that may, under certain conditions such as
backflow, enter the public water supply system.
      POTABLE WATER. Water that is suitable for drinking as determined by the
requirements of the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 300f et
seq.
      PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An assembly containing an independently
operating, internally loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded
air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly
is to be equipped with properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off
valves attached to each end of the assembly.
      PRIVATE AUXILIARY SUPPLY SYSTEM. Private wells or other private water
supplies which are normally entirely independent and not connected to the
public water supply.
      PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The lateral fire and service line to the
user’s premises starting at the tap on the public water supply system and
termination at the point of usage, whether for fire suppression, irrigation, or
domestic usage.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The water mains and appurtenances, such as
fire hydrants and main valves, used to distribute the potable water supply to
the public, and shall terminate at the tap for lateral service to the users;
the utility is the owner of the public water supply system.
      REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device which is composed of 2
tightly closing shut-off valves surrounding 2 independently acting pressure-
reducing check valves which in turn surround an automatic pressure differential
relief valve, and 4 test cocks, 1 upstream of the 5 valves and 1 between each
of the 4 check and shut-off valves. The check valves effectively divide the
structure into 3 chambers; pressure is reduced in each downstream chamber
allowing the pressure differential relief valve to vent the center chamber to
atmosphere, should either or both check valves malfunction.
      USER. The water customer or public authority using potable municipal
water.
      UTILITY. The New Carlisle Water Works, a municipally owned utility.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.1) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.1, passed 2-14-1995)
   (B)   Authority and responsibility.
      (1)   Utility authorized. This subchapter authorizes the utility to
require certain backflow prevention devices in private water supply systems to
prevent backflow into the public water supply system. It shall be the
responsibility of the user to install and maintain the devices in conformance
with this subchapter and other rules and regulations established by the State
of Indiana.
      (2)   Utility sole interpreter. The utility shall be the interpreter of
this subchapter and the arbiter and judge as to whether such a backflow
prevention device is required. If such a backflow prevention device is
required, the utility shall determine the type and the location of the device.
The utility may order installation of the device by written notice to the user,
under the conditions defined.
      (3)   Areas of application, geographic location. Inasmuch as the utility
serves customers outside of the corporate limits of the town, this subchapter
shall apply to all users, both urban and suburban.
      (4)   State Uniform Plumbing Code of interface. This subchapter
supplements the uniform Indiana Plumbing Code and shall not supersede the
provisions of the Plumbing Code.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.2) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.2, passed 2-14-1995)
   (C)   Effect of subchapter as to other laws. Where the requirements of this
subchapter are more specific than the state law authorizing the enactment of
these requirements, the provisions of this subchapter shall apply, but under no
circumstances shall this subchapter be construed to contradict existing state
law regulating this matter.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.3) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.3, passed 2-14-1995)
   (D)   Commercial and industrial hazards. A reduced pressure backflow
preventer device shall be required for the following hazards:
      (1)   Manufacturers of automotive, aircraft, farm, and similar equipment;
      (2)   Canneries, packing, bottling, and similar plants;
      (3)   Laundries, car washes, dry cleaners, and similar facilities;
      (4)   Mortuaries, laboratories, hospitals, and medical facilities;
      (5)   Plating, metal, plastic, and paper product plants;
      (6)   Producers of chemicals, fertilizers, rubber, oil, drugs, dyes, and
other similar products;
      (7)   Swimming pools, saunas, and solar heat systems;
      (8)   Any private auxiliary water supply connected to the public supply;
      (9)   Sewage treatment, recyclers, and similar facilities;
      (10)   Any facility using a booster pump to amplify the pressure of water
provided by the utility;
      (11)   Schools with any of the above hazardous activities; and
      (12)   Any other commercial or industrial facility that is deemed by the
utility to pose a contamination hazard.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.4) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.4, passed 2-14-1995)
   (E)   Irrigation systems. A reduced pressure backflow preventer, an air-gap,
or an approved pressure type vacuum-breaker device shall be required for the
following hazards:
      (1)   Lawn-irrigation systems;
      (2)   Similar lawn-care systems; and
      (3)   Garden hose spigots placed below lawn grade.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.5) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.5, passed 2-14-1995)
   (F)   Residential. A reduced pressure backflow preventer shall be required
for the following hazards:
      (1)   Residents with hot water heat (boilers); the boilers should have,
as per the Indiana Plumbing Code, an expansion tank and/or safety valves to
prevent expansion problems; and
      (2)   Any residence with a private auxiliary water supply connected to
the public supply through the user’s private water supply system.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.6) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.6, passed 2-14-1995)
   (G)   Fire service. No hazardous line shall be attached to any fire hydrant
or other fire service line without an approved backflow prevention device.
Permanent fire service lines shall incorporate a double check valve assembly in
100% water systems or a reduced pressure backflow preventer in chemical
systems. Where domestic service is tapped into a fire line, the domestic tap
shall be subject to all the provisions of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.7) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.7, passed 2-14-1995)
   (H)   Pre-existing facilities.
      (1)   In general, pre-existing backflow preventers will not be allowed
simply because they were approved before the enactment of this subchapter. The
utility will review the operation and hazard of
each facility with backflow preventers and determine acceptability based on
operability and present hazard. If the backflow preventers are found
unacceptable, they shall be replaced with a backflow prevention device in
accordance with this subchapter.
      (2)   Pre-existing facilities that have no backflow prevention device and
where there is a definite present hazard shall be required to install an
appropriate device, regardless of whether their plumbing system was previously
approved by the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.8) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.8, passed 2-14-1995)
   (I)   Location. The backflow prevention device shall be located immediately
downstream of the water meter and shall not be bypassed by any means. There
shall be no taps upstream of the backflow prevention device that are not
protected by additional backflow prevention devices. The existence of backflow
prevention devices on the user’s premises other than at this required location
shall not negate the requirement at this location. Exact installation alignment
and elevation requirements shall be determined by reference to 327 I.A.C. 8-10-
7 and other applicable state law regulations.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.9) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.9, passed 2-14-1995)
   (J)   Uninterrupted service. Users needing continuous service that cannot be
interrupted for testing the backflow prevention device shall install dual
devices in parallel so that they can be checked separately.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.10) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.10, passed 2-14-1995)
   (K)   Looped taps. Heat exchange loops, intentionally returning water to the
public supply, shall not be allowed. Any other loop or set of taps into a
private water system allowing water to return to the public systems shall
require appropriate backflow prevention devices on all taps.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.11) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.11, passed 2-14-1995)
   (L)   Inspection and testing.
      (1)   Any water user or owner of a private water supply system shall
allow access to his or her facilities for inspection of their system and for
testing of any backflow prevention device.
      (2)   If access for inspection is denied on the basis of government
security or any other reason, a maximum hazard shall be assumed requiring a
reduced pressure backflow prevention device.
      (3)   The user is required to maintain the backflow prevention devices
and shall have them inspected and tested at 6- or 12-month intervals in
accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10-8 by a certified inspector, who shall report
the results to the utility and to the user. The inspection shall be at the
expense of the user.
      (4)   All water users shall have their facility inspected by a certified
inspector provided by the utility. The utility fee for inspection and testing
is set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (5)   The user shall retain records of all testing, repair, and approval
of backflow prevention devices for a 3-year period. The utility is required to
retain all records of testing and repair of the devices.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.12) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.12, passed 2-14-1995)
   (M)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Noncompliance to any of the terms stated in this chapter will
result in the following escalating enforcement procedures:
         (a)   A 30-day written notice will be sent by certified mail to the
user stating the specific violation, the recommended action, the time by which
the violation must be cured, and the penalty for failing to cure the violation.
The notice also will inform the user of his or her right to administrative
review of the specific alleged violation;
         (b)   A 10-day final written notice by certified mail will be sent
stating the specific violation, the recommended action, the time by which the
violation must be cured, and the penalty to be imposed (discontinued service)
if the violation is not cured;
         (c)   When the user has been provided with both required notices of
noncompliance and fails to cure the same as provided in the written notice,
service to the user will be discontinued; and
         (d)   Discontinued service will consist of closing the control valve
to the user’s system, and the user will incur the standard monetary penalties
for delinquent shut-off. The utility will not restore service to the user until
the utility has determined that the user is in compliance with the provisions
of the chapter.
      (2)   In the event that inspection of the user’s premises or other
compelling evidence shows an immediate hazard of public water supply
contamination, the utility is authorized to discontinue service to that user
without prior notice. Written notice shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office and the County Health Department and a copy given to the user within 3
days of the emergency action.
(1992 Code, § 9-65.13) (Ord. 894, § 9-65.13, passed 2-14-1995)
RATES AND CHARGES FOR INDUSTRIAL WATER USERS
§ 52.40 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of Ord. 740, passed on August 15, 1989, are incorporated
herein by reference with 2 copies being open for public inspection in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer during regular business hours. The ordinance is
amended as set forth in §
52.41.
(1992 Code, § 9-125)
§ 52.41 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES FOR INDUSTRIAL WATER USERS.
   For the use of service rendered by the waterworks system of the town to
industrial users based upon the use of water supplied requiring special
treatment beyond that furnished for residential, commercial, and institutional
users:
   (A)   The combined billing of Cleveland Cliffs (Tek) and Cleveland Cliffs
(Kote) monthly billing shall be as set out in
Ch. 98.
   (B)   The minimum monthly charge shall be as set out in
Ch. 98.
   (C)   The St. Joseph Energy Center LLC monthly billing shall be as set out
in
Ch. 98.
   (D)   The initial base rate will be adjusted annually as of June 1, 2019,
2020, 2021 and 2022 (the 12-month periods from June 1 of one year through May
31 of the following year) based on the increase in the CPI (as defined below)
from the initial base year.
   (E)   Before May 31, 2023, a new base rate (the “new base rate”) will be
established for the following year (the “new base year”), to allow for the
recovery of the town’s average annual costs of ownership and operation of the
Wells and Water Plant based on actual costs incurred over the preceding 5
years, together with known costs to be incurred because of regulatory and
environmental conditions and regulations. The new base rate will be subject to
adjustment annually during the next 4 years based on the increase in the CPI
from the new base year.
   (F)   The foregoing process will be repeated every 5 years during the period
when St. Joseph Energy Center is receiving water from the town. As used herein,
“CPI” means the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (CPI-U), U.S. city
average, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States
Department of Labor, and the CPI to be used will be the one published most
recently prior to the date in question.
   (G)   The Amazon Web Services (AWS) monthly billing shall be as set out in
Ch. 98.
   (H)   General Motors, LLC (GM) monthly billing shall be as set out in
Ch. 98.
(1992 Code, § 9-126) (Ord. 953, § 2, passed 9-23-1997; Am. Ord. 1176, passed 8-
28-2007; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1317, passed 11-10-2015; Am.
Ord. 1340, passed 12-29-2016; Am. Ord. 1344, passed 7-11-2017; Am. Ord. 1462,
passed 1-16-2024; Am. Ord. 1479, passed 12-17-2024)
WATER SERVICE AREA
§ 52.60 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The town water service area is hereby defined and established as those
areas within the corporate boundaries of the town, as well as certain areas
within 4 miles outside the town's boundaries, excluding any area within the
authorized service area of another water provider. A map and description
detailing the town water service area is attached to Ord. 1478 as Exhibit A.
   (B)   Upon adoption of this section and its approval by the Commission, the
town shall hold an exclusive license to furnish and regulate water service in
the town water service area, and the town shall be the exclusive provider of
water utility service to the public within the town water service area.
   (C)   Upon adoption of this section and its approval by the Commission, no
other utilities are permitted to provide water service within the town water
service area. This section does not: mandate the town to extend service to
areas where technically or financially not feasible or in circumstances
inconsistent with the town's policies, ordinances, or terms of service; or
prevent the use of onsite wells or other onsite water supply facilities where
the town does not currently have facilities available. Rather, this section
expressly prohibits other utilities from furnishing water service to customers
within the town water service area.
   (D)   No end service user shall permit a connection to water service within
the town water service area by any other water service provider.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation that violates this section shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $2,000 per violation, and each day of violation
shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (F)   The town's existing rules, policies, regulations, and ordinances for
water service, as amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the town
water service area.
(Ord. 1478, passed 11-6-2024)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICITY
Section
Electricity Utility Rates and Charges
   
53.01   Adoption of rates
   
53.02   Minimum charges for electric meter deposits
   
53.03   Past due charges
   
53.04   Disconnection and reconnection charges
   
53.05   Rate “R” domestic electric service
   
53.06   Rate “C” commercial and small power service
   
53.07   Rate “P” capacity power service
   
53.08   Rate “G” governmental service
   
53.09   Rate “M” municipal electric service
   
53.10   Rate “STL” street lighting service
   
53.11   Rate “SL” security lighting service
   
53.12   Rate adjustment (applicable to rates R, C, P, and M)
   
53.13   Fuel cost adjustment (applicable to rates R, C, P, and M)
   
53.14   Availability of residential lighting service
   
53.15   Full domestic service
   
53.16   Water heater service
   
53.17   Commercial lighting
   
53.18   Commercial power
   
53.19   Delinquency fee
   
53.20   When bills available
   
53.21   Deposits; consumption determines
   
53.22   Notice of disconnection
   
53.23   Connections, responsibility of town
   
53.24   Right of inspection
   
53.25   Town to furnish meters; ownership of system
   
53.26   Testing of meters, manner of payment
   
53.27   Electric utilities’ line loss
   
53.28   Extensions of electrical service
   
53.29   Non-recurring charges
   
53.30   NSF check fee
   
53.31   New electric service; reimbursement
   
53.32   Additional facilities
   
53.33   Special terms and conditions; meter tampering
   
53.34   New construction and system upgrades
ELECTRICITY UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.01 ADOPTION OF RATES.
   There shall be charged, exacted, and collected for service distribution of
electric current in the town and continuous territory served by the electric
distribution system of the town the following schedule of rates and charges
which have been approved by the Public Service Commission of the State of
Indiana.
(1992 Code, § 9-71)
§ 53.02 MINIMUM CHARGES FOR ELECTRIC METER DEPOSITS.
   The minimum charge for electric meter deposits shall be as set forth in the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 9-72) (Ord. 533, passed - -1979; Am. Ord. 1046, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 53.03 PAST DUE CHARGES.
   A charge as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 shall be charged if a user must be notified in person of a past due
bill.
(1992 Code, § 9-73) (Ord. 533, passed - -1979)
§ 53.04 DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   A charge as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 shall be charged upon the disconnection of an electric meter due to
non-payment, and an additional charge as set forth in §
51.20 when the past due account is paid and the electric meter is reconnected
following notice requirements of §
51.20.
(1992 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 533, passed - -1979)
§ 53.05 RATE “R” DOMESTIC ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability of service. Available for full domestic electric service
through 1 meter to individual residential customers including rural domestic
customers engaged principally in agricultural pursuits. Domestic services to
include residential lighting, cooking, water heating, refrigeration, home
heating, clothes drying, and the like.
   (B)   Rate. As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   Minimum charge. Monthly customer charge plus energy charges.
   (D)   Rate adjustment. Refer to §
53.12.
   (E)   Fuel cost adjustment. Refer to §
53.13.
(1992 Code, § 9-75.1) (Ord. 727, Appendix A, passed 1-24-1989; Am. Ord. 1174,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-
2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.06 RATE “C” COMMERCIAL AND SMALL POWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability of service. Available for single phase non-residential
general commercial service using a single set of service wires to a single
meter location with less than 25 KVA of transformer capacity.
   (B)   Rate. As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   Minimum charge. Monthly customer charge plus energy charges.
   (D)   Rate adjustment. Refer to §
53.12.
   (E)   Fuel cost adjustment. Refer to §
53.13.
(1992 Code, § 9-75.2) (Ord. 727, Appendix A, passed 1-24-1989; Am. Ord. 1174,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-
2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.07 RATE “P” CAPACITY POWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability of service. Available for general service for commercial
and/or industrial users served with transformer capacity of 25 KVA or more.
   (B)   Rates. As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   Determination of demand. Billing demand in KVA shall be taken each
month as the average of the 3 highest 15-minute integrated peaks in kilowatts
as registered during the month by a 15-minute integrating demand meter or
indicator, or at the company’s option as the highest registration or a thermal
type demand meter or indicator, divided by the average monthly power factor
established during the month, corrected to the nearest KVA.
   (D)   Power factor. At the option of the New Carlisle municipal electric
utility, the rate of this tariff may be adjusted to conform with the following
factors. The rate set forth in this tariff is based upon the maintenance by the
customer of an average power factor of 85% for each month, as shown by
integrating instruments.
      (1)   When the average monthly power factor is above or below 85%, the
Kwhrs as metered, will, for billing purposes, be multiplied by the following
constants:
 
Effective Monthly Power Factor Constant Effective Monthly Power Factor Constant
1.00                           .951     —                            —
.95                            .965     .70                            1.0835
.90                            .981     .65                            1.1255
.85                            1.000    .60                            1.1785
.80                            1.023    .55                            1.2455
.75                            1.050    .50                            1.3335
 
      (2)   Constants for other than effective power factors given in the
foregoing table will be determined from the same formula used to determine the
given constants.
   (E)   Minimum charge. Monthly customer charge plus the energy charge for the
month.
   (F)   Rate adjustment. Refer to §
53.12.
   (G)   Fuel cost adjustment. Refer to §
53.13.
(1992 Code, § 9-75.3) (Ord. 727, Appendix A, passed 1-24-1989; Am. Ord. 1174,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-
2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.08 RATE “G” GOVERNMENTAL SERVICE.
   The Government Service customer class has been combined into the Municipal
Electric Service Class. Refer to §
53.09.
(1992 Code, § 9-75.4) (Ord. 727, Appendix A, passed 1-24-1989; Am. Ord. 1174,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-
2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.09 RATE “M” MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability of service. Available for single service to municipally
owned public buildings or locations supported by public tax levies or
municipally owned utility rates.
   (B)   Rate. As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   Minimum charge. Monthly customer charge plus energy charges.
   (D)   Billing. Billing, at the option of the utility, may be on a monthly,
quarterly, semi-annually, or annual basis.
   (E)   Rate adjustment. Refer to §
53.12.
   (F)   Fuel cost adjustment. Refer to §
53.13.
(1992 Code, § 9-75.5) (Ord. 727, Appendix A, passed 1-24-1989; Am. Ord. 1174,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-
2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.10 RATE “STL” STREET LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability of service. Available to the town for municipal street
lighting of public streets, public parks, bridges, public parking areas or
other public places deemed necessary by the town.
   (B)   Rate. As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   Minimum charge. None.
   (D)   Billing. Billing, at the option of the utility, may be on a monthly,
quarterly, semiannually, or annual basis.
(1992 Code, § 9-75.6) (Ord. 727, Appendix A, passed 1-24-1989; Am. Ord. 1174,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1311, passed 6-11-
2015; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.11 RATE “SL” SECURITY LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability of service. Available for continuous year-round service
for outdoor lighting to any customer located adjacent to an electric
distribution line of utility that is adequate and suitable for supplying the
service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Dusk to dawn outdoor lighting service using
lamps available under this rate schedule, when mounted on an existing utility
pole and including 1 span of secondary conductors.
   (C)   (1)   Rates (per lamp). As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   When the utility is required to install a wood pole to provide the
customer with outdoor lighting service, the customer shall be required to pay,
in addition to the charges as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, the cost to facilitate the installation.
(1992 Code, § 9-75.7) (Ord. 727, Appendix A, passed 1-24-1989; Am. Ord. 1174,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-
2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.12 RATE ADJUSTMENT (APPLICABLE TO RATES R, C, P, AND M).
   The rate adjustment shall be on the basis of purchased power cost adjustment
tracking factor, occasioned solely by the changes in the cost of purchased
power as follows:
   The rate adjustment applicable to the above listed rate schedule shall be
$0.000000 per KwH used per month.
(1992 Code, § 9-76) (Ord.1069, passed 5-8-2001; Am. Ord. 1174, Appendix A,
passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1306, passed 4-14-
2015; Am. Ord. 1311, passed 6-11-2015; Am. Ord. 1319, passed 12-8-2015; Am.
Ord. 1335, passed 10-25-2016; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord. 1347,
passed 8-22-2017; Am. Ord. 1383, passed 9-17-2019; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-
2022)
§ 53.13 FUEL COST ADJUSTMENT (APPLICABLE TO RATES R, C, P, AND M).
   The fuel cost adjustment has been discontinued under the current wholesale
power agreement.
(1992 Code, § 9-77) (Ord. 966, § 2, passed 1-27-1998; Am. Ord. 1069, passed 5-
8-2001; Am. Ord. 1174, Appendix A, passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-
26-2011; Am. Ord. 1306, passed 4-14-2015; Am. Ord. 1311, passed 6-11-2015; Am.
Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.14 AVAILABILITY OF RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING SERVICE.
   Service is available for domestic lighting and small appliances through 1
meter to individual residential customers in the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-78)
§ 53.15 FULL DOMESTIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Service is available for full domestic service through 1 meter to
individual residential customers where there is connected, and in regular use
each month, a heating and cooking load of no less than 3,000 watts.
   (B)   This tariff is subject to monthly minimum charge as set forth in the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 for each meter installed.
(1992 Code, § 9-79)
§ 53.16 WATER HEATER SERVICE.
   This rate class has been discontinued.
(Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.17 COMMERCIAL LIGHTING.
   (A)   Commercial lighting rates are subject to a monthly minimum charge per
meter installed as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (B)   Service is available to apartment houses and to combined apartments
with stores and all commercial establishments within the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-81)
§ 53.18 COMMERCIAL POWER.
   (A)   For all connected loads of 5 HP or less, the minimum charge shall be
as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (B)   Where the connected load is 5 HP or more, a maximum demand meter shall
be installed. This instrument shall be designed to indicate the highest average
KW load during any consecutive 15 minutes of the month, and from the readings
of this meter, the monthly demand charge shall be as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98 and shall be added to the charge for energy.
   (C)   Service is available for commercial and industrial service to
customers taking electric energy through 1 meter at 440 or 220 volts 3 phase 60
cycle and having 5 HP or more connected load.
(1992 Code, § 9-82)
§ 53.19 DELINQUENCY FEE.
   There shall be charged to each consumer a delinquency fee as set forth in
the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 for service. Provisions regarding late payments and shut-off notices
are covered under §
51.20.
(1992 Code, § 9-83)
§ 53.20 WHEN BILLS AVAILABLE.
   Bills shall be available for payment at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town on and after the second day of the month next following the month for
which bills are payable; and the Clerk-Treasurer, during all business hours,
will receive payment.
(1992 Code, § 9-84)
§ 53.21 DEPOSITS; CONSUMPTION DETERMINES.
   (A)   When the average monthly consumption of current over a period of any 3
months on any meter exceeds in value under this schedule 1/2 the amount of the
deposit made pursuant to §
53.02, the Clerk- Treasurer is authorized to require the consumer to increase
the deposit securing the payment of bills under the meter to an amount that
will equal twice the average monthly consumption charge for each meter.
   (B)   No deposit shall be withdrawn from the Clerk-Treasurer until all
outstanding accounts in reference to the meterage covered by the deposit are
fully settled and the service disconnected.
(1992 Code, § 9-85)
§ 53.22 NOTICE OF DISCONNECTION.
   Provisions regarding late payments and shut-off notices are covered under §
51.20.
(1992 Code, § 9-86)
§ 53.23 CONNECTIONS, RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN.
   The installation of new service connections on contract executed with the
town, the town shall be responsible for feed and distribution lines only to the
outer wall of the house or building to be connected and in no manner assumes
responsibility for any failure of the distribution system within any structure
whatsoever.
(1992 Code, § 9-87)
§ 53.24 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The town, through its duly authorized officers and inspectors, shall
have the right of ingress and egress to the premises for the purpose of
inspecting the meter installed thereon and to check the distribution system
within any structure for leaks or tampering.
   (B)   If during the period of any month any service and meter calls
inspectors and official of the town, charged with the duty, do not have access
for the purpose of reading the meter, the town is authorized to charge and
exact for the consumption of current during the month, at which ineffectual
calls are made for the purpose of reading the meter, an estimate equaling the
service consumption of the next preceding month or the consumption on the
corresponding month for the former year, whichever be the greater, adjustment
on the charge, whether over or under, to appear in the subsequent month’s bill.
(1992 Code, § 9-88)
§ 53.25 TOWN TO FURNISH METERS; OWNERSHIP OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The town shall furnish all meters, and all meters and connecting wires
attached thereto shall be and remain the property of the town.
   (B)   All facilities installed by the utility for service hereunder,
including fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondary lines, lamps, and
other appurtenances, shall be owned and maintained by the utility. All service
and necessary maintenance shall be performed during regularly schedules working
hours of the utility. Non-operative lamps will normally be restored within 3
working days after notification by the customer.
(1992 Code, § 9-89) (Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1311, passed 6-
11-2015)
§ 53.26 TESTING OF METERS, MANNER OF PAYMENT.
   If any consumer shall question the accuracy of any meter, inspection and
test thereof shall be made, and the charges and expense thereof levied and paid
in accordance with the statutes of the State of Indiana pertaining to other
public utilities operating in the state.
(1992 Code, § 9-90)
§ 53.27 ELECTRIC UTILITIES’ LINE LOSS.
   (A)   The stop light at the corner of Michigan Street and Bray Street shall
be furnished free of charge by the New Carlisle municipal electric utilities.
   (B)   The kilowatt hours shall be documented in order for the town to figure
the electric utilities’ line loss.
(1992 Code, § 9-91) (Ord. 971, §§ 1, 2, passed 3-24-1998)
§ 53.28 EXTENSIONS OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   This section has been repealed. For new service requirements, see §§
53.31 and
53.32.
(Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.29 NON-RECURRING CHARGES; ATTACHMENTS TO UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   The fee for the attachment to the town’s electric utility poles for
telephone attachment shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 per attachment. The fees shall be billed once a year.
(Ord. 1113, passed 7-22-2003)
   (B)   The fee for the attachment to the town’s electric utility poles for
cablevision attachment shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 per attachment.
   (C)   The fee for Electric Department reconnect/disconnect charge standard
service during office hours shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (D)   The fee for Electric Department reconnect/disconnect charge after
hours shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (E)   Electric deposits, refundable when account is current, shall be as set
forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (F)   The fee for new home underground electric service charge is to be
quoted and charged as described in the service extension proposal set forth in
§
53.31 (non-refundable, one time, to be deposited in electric operating to cover
costs incurred).
   (G)   The fee for meter test charge shall be as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Ord. 1114, passed 7-22-2003; Am. Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord. 1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 53.30 NSF CHECK FEE.
   The fee for a NSF check shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. This fee shall be collected at the time that the NSF check will be
picked up. Additional fees to be collected, if incurred, are attorney fees and
court cost required by collection.
(Ord. 1115, passed 7-22-2003)
§ 53.31 NEW ELECTRIC SERVICE; REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The New Carlisle municipal electric utility shall require
reimbursement from landowners for new developments, or developments requiring
new electric services.
   (B)   Each landowner for new developments or development shall complete an
“application and agreement for electric service.”
   (C)    Any and all deposits, revenues and refunds shall be in accordance
with the conditions and provisions in the application and agreement for
electric service.
(Ord. 1016, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 53.32 ADDITIONAL FACILITIES.
   A request for new service shall be submitted to the Electric Superintendent.
When a request for new service is approved, the utility will provide facilities
to allow for the installation of fixtures, ornamental poles, underground and
overhead conductor, wooden poles, and the like, as well as other improvements
to the electric distribution system necessary to properly service the addition
load added to the distribution circuit. The improvements required shall be
determined by the Electric Utility Superintendent. The customer will pay in
advance all costs to be incurred for the installation of the facilities
required to supply service from the most suitable existing pole, transformer,
or pedestal of the utility to the point designated by the customer for the
installation, as well as the other distributions system improvements required
to provide adequate service to the new connection.
(Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 1311, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 53.33 SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS; METER TAMPERING.
   (A)   When the customer requests that a lamp be mounted on an existing pole
or a pole to be installed on a customer’s property, the customer shall waive
any claim for damages caused by the maintenance, installation, and/or removal
of lamp or pole.
   (B)   Meter tampering.
      (1)   First offense. As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, actual cost of parts, labor, equipment, and overhead, plus cost of
estimated consumption based on prior history, notification and report to
Marshal’s Department.
      (2)   Subsequent offenses. As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Ord. 1242, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 53.34 NEW CONSTRUCTION AND SYSTEM UPGRADES.
   (A)   All electrical services 400 amps and under, utilizing a single meter
and/or current transformers (CT), shall provide fusible or breaker
disconnecting means located at a readily accessible point outside the building
or structure and associated directly with the meter socket. For services above
400 amps, the disconnecting means may be located inside the structure per the
National Electric Code.
   (B)   All new construction and any service upgrades shall require the
installation of a hardwired combination smoke and carbon monoxide detector.
(Ord. 1392, passed 7-21-2020)
CHAPTER 54: INDUSTRIAL USERS
Section
Industrial Pretreatment
   
54.01   Pretreatment of industrial wastes required
   
54.02   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
54.03   Accidental discharges
   
54.04   Wastewater discharge permits
   
54.05   Permit application; fees
   
54.06   Confidentiality
   
54.07   Permit modifications
   
54.08   Permit duration
   
54.09   Limitations on permit transfer
   
54.10   Reporting requirements
   
54.11   Emergency suspension of service and permit
   
54.12   Revocation of permit
   
54.13   Notification of violation; administrative adjustment
   
54.14   Show cause hearing
   
54.15   Judicial proceedings
   
54.16   Annual publication of significant violators
   
54.17   Pre-approval of plans required
   
54.18   Unpolluted waters
   
54.19   Industrial cooling water
   
54.20   Wastewater flow characteristics
   
54.21   Samplings and analysis
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Rates and charges for industrial water users, see
Ch. 52
INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT
§ 54.01 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the EPA (40 C.F.R. part 403), and Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants (40 C.F.R. part 136),
in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the town and
subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
(1992 Code, § 9-100) (Ord. 755, § 1, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.02 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards as promulgated by the EPA
shall be met by all affected nonresidential waste dischargers. An application
for modification of the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards may be
considered by the Town Council as described herein.
   (B)   State and local requirements and limitations on discharges shall be
met by all discharges when the requirements and limitations are more stringent
than federal requirements and limitations.
   (C)   No discharger shall use potable water to dilute a discharge as a
substitute for adequate treatment of prohibited substances to achieve
compliance with the standards set forth in this subchapter.
   (D)   Under no circumstances shall a discharger release water or waste
containing concentrations of the following substances in amounts exceeding the
stated values:
Parameter 1-Day Maximum 4-Day Average
Parameter 1-Day Maximum 4-Day Average
Arsenic   1.0           0.2
Cadmium   2.7           1.2
Copper    5.0           3.5
Cyanide   1.5           0.5
Lead      2.0           0.8
Mercury   0.1           0.005
Nickel    5.0           2.5
 
Parameter      1-Day Maximum 4-Day Average
Total Chromium 7.5           5.0
Zinc           10.0          6.0
*All units mg/l
 
(1992 Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 755, § 1(a), passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   A discharger shall provide a plan of protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited or regulated substances listed herein. Each protection
plan is subject to the approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   Dischargers shall notify the town immediately upon the occurrence of a
“slug” or accidental discharge of substances prohibited by this subchapter. The
notification shall include location of discharge, date and time of occurrence,
type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions. Immediate
notification may be verbal, followed by a written verification within 5 days of
the incident.
(1992 Code, § 9-102) (Ord. 755, § 1(b), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.04 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage, nondomestic wastes, or other
wastes to any sewer outlet within the jurisdiction of the town without having
been issued a wastewater discharge permit, if the discharger:
      (1)   Is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards as
promulgated by the EPA;
      (2)   Discharges nondomestic wastewater in the amount equal to or
exceeding 25,000 gallons per day;
      (3)   Contributes a nondomestic waste stream exceeding 5% of the dry
weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the wastewater collection system; or
      (4)   Has a reasonable potential to adversely affect treatment plant
processes by inhibition, pass-through of pollutants, sludge contamination, or
endangerment of treatment plant personnel.
   (B)   Prospective nondomestic users of any sewer shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit prior to connecting to or discharging into the wastewater
system and shall apply for the permit at least 90 days prior to anticipated
connection.
(1992 Code, § 9-103) (Ord. 755, § 1(c), passed 1-23-1990) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Applications for wastewater discharge permits may be procured from the
town.
   (B)   Dischargers subject to the provisions of division (C)(1) of this
section shall obtain from, complete, and file with the town, a permit
application on a form prescribed by the town. The form shall require the
following conditions:
      (1)   Disclosure of name, address, and location of the discharger;
      (2)   Disclosure of Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) number
according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Bureau of the
Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Disclosure of wastewater constituents and characteristics including
but not limited to those mentioned in this division, as determined by bona fide
chemical and biological analysis;
      (4)   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   Disclosure of average daily wastewater flow rates in gallons per
day, including daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any. All flows must
be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the town due to
cost or nonfeasibility;
      (6)   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or may be discharged to the sewers;
      (8)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this subchapter in the discharge, including a statement
regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved on a consistent basis and
if not, what additional operation and maintenance activities and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the discharger to comply;
      (9)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities are required to comply with the applicable pretreatment standard,
the discharger must provide a compliance schedule by which he or she will
provide the additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional
operational and maintenance activities. All pretreatment plans shall be
submitted to the town for review and approval prior to implementation;
      (10)   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount, process or
processes, and rate of production;
      (11)   Disclosure of the type and amount of the raw materials utilized;
and
      (12)   All permit applications for new or modified permits must be signed
by a principal executive officer of the discharger.
(Ord. 755, § 1(d), passed 1-23-1990)
   (C)   The following fees are required for discharge permits:
      (1)   Each permit will be issued for a base fee as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   For each additional sampling point there will be a charge as set
forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (3)   An annual fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 shall be collected from each industrial discharger.
(Ord. 802, d(3), passed 5-14-1991)
   (D)   Within 60 days after receipt of the application for discharge permit,
the Public Works Director shall review the application for compliance with the
terms and conditions of this subchapter.
   (E)   If the Public Works Director finds the applicant to be in compliance,
the Public Works Director shall approve the application and a permit to
discharge shall be issued subject to the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a municipal sewer;
      (2)   Numerical limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents
and characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number and types of samples, and standards
for analyses and reporting schedules;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submittal of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retention of plant records
pertaining to wastewater discharge as specified by this subchapter, and
affording Town Council’s personnel access thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for reporting the nature of significant changes in
wastewater flow or substantial changes in type and concentration of wastewater
constituents;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Public Works
Director to ensure compliance with this subchapter; and/or
      (12)   The permit is for a period of 5 years, but may be revoked or
rescinded if the applicant is not in conformity with the provisions of this
code.
   (F)   If the Public Works Director rejects the application for
noncompliance, he or she shall establish a compliance schedule and require
compliance schedule reports and compliance date reports on forms supplied by
the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-104) (Ord. 755, § 1(d), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.06 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   In accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 2, any information submitted to the
town pursuant to these regulations may be claimed as confidential by the
submitter. Any such claim must be asserted at the time of submission in the
manner prescribed on the application form or instructions, or, in the case of
other submissions, by stamping the words “confidential business information” on
each page containing the information. If no claim is made at the time of
submission, the town may make the information available to the public without
further notice. If a claim is asserted, the information will be treated in
accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. part 2 (Public Information).
   (B)   Information and data provided to the town pursuant to this part which
is effluent data shall be made available to the public without restriction.
   (C)   All other information which is submitted to the state or town shall be
available to the public at least to the extent provided by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302.
(1992 Code, § 9-105) (Ord. 755, § 1(e), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.07 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to amend any wastewater discharge permit
issued hereunder in order to ensure compliance by the town with applicable laws
and regulations. Within 9 months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of each discharger
subject to the standards shall be revised to require compliance with the
standards within the time frame prescribed by the standards. All National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards adopted after the promulgation of this
subchapter shall be a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any discharger required to obtain a discharge permit under the newly
promulgated standards shall apply for same immediately upon notification by the
town.
   (C)   Any current permittee whose wastewater discharge permit is affected by
newly promulgated National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall, upon
notification by the town, submit all documentation, information, and proposed
changes necessary to bring the discharger into compliance with the new
standards. Upon receipt of the information, the Town Council shall establish a
compliance schedule whereby the permittee shall attain compliance with the
applicable standards. The permittee shall be advised of any proposed changes in
his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any
changes in new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance, not to exceed the duration specified in the applicable
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
(1992 Code, § 9-106) (Ord. 755, § 1(f), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.08 PERMIT DURATION.
   All wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a 5-year duration and
shall be valid subject to amendment or revocation as provided in this
subchapter. Under special circumstances, as determined by the Town Council, a
permit may be issued for a period of less than 5 years.
(1992 Code, § 9-107) (Ord. 755, § 1(g), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.09 LIMITATIONS ON PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific discharger for a
specific operation and are not assignable to another discharger or transferable
to any other location without the prior written approval of the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 9-108) (Ord. 755, § 1(h), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.10 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Within 90 days following commencement of the introduction of
wastewater into the wastewater system, a new permittee shall submit to the town
a baseline monitoring report on forms furnished by the town indicating the
nature and concentration of all prohibited or regulated substances contained in
its discharge, and the average and maximum daily flow in gallons. The report
shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and if not, what additional operations, maintenance and/or
pretreatment activities are necessary to bring the discharger into compliance
with the applicable standards.
   (B)   Any permittee subject to a pretreatment standard set forth in this
section shall submit to the town during the months of June and December, unless
required more frequently by the discharge permit, a periodic compliance report
on forms provided by the town indicating the nature and concentration of
prohibited or regulated substances in the effluent. Included in the report
shall be a record of all measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows
during the reporting period, computed by verifiable techniques as required by
the applicable discharge permit.
   (C)   Each permittee shall monitor the discharge with the frequency
prescribed in its wastewater discharge permit. All sampling and analyses shall
be performed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto.
   (D)   Reports of monitoring events shall be filed with the town as required
by the wastewater discharge permit. The reports shall contain all results of
analyses required by the permit, including flow conditions and the nature and
concentration of those prohibited substances specified in the applicable
categorical standards. The reports shall also specify sampling location; date,
time, and techniques; analysis date; analyst and analysis methods; and results
of all analyses.
   (E)   All permittees shall retain and preserve for no less than 3 years any
records, books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence, and any and all
summaries thereof, relating to monitoring, sampling, and analyses made in
connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to matters which are
the subject of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation
activities brought by the town pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved
by the permittee until all enforcement activities have concluded and all
periods of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this subchapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this section, shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
imposition of a civil penalty as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (G)   All permittees subject to Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
will be required to file all reports as described in 40 C.F.R. part 403. These
reports shall include baseline monitoring reports, compliance schedule reports,
compliance date reports, and periodic compliance reports.
   (H)   Compliance schedule reports must be submitted by any nonresidential
discharger not subject to categorical standards who is not in compliance with
the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 9-109) (Ord. 755, § 1(i), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.11 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE AND PERMIT.
   The Town Council may, for good cause shown, suspend the wastewater service
and the discharge permit of a nonresidential discharger when an actual or
threatened discharge presents or may present an imminent or substantial danger
to the health or welfare of persons, substantial danger to the environment,
interfere with the operations of the wastewater facilities, or violate any
pretreatment limits imposed by this subchapter. Any nonresidential discharger
notified of the suspension of service and/or permit shall cease all discharges
to the sewer system. In the event of failure of the nonresidential discharger
to comply voluntarily with the suspension order within the specified time, the
Town Council shall commence judicial proceedings immediately thereafter to
compel the nonresidential user’s compliance with the order.
(1992 Code, § 9-110) (Ord. 755, § 1(j), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Council may revoke the permit of a nonresidential discharger which
fails to:
   (A)   Factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristic of its
discharge;
   (B)   Report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics, including periods of noncompliance with applicable effluent
limitations;
   (C)   Report modifications of operational and/or pretreatment processes or
facilities;
   (D)   Refuses reasonable access to the nonresidential user’s premises by
representatives of the town for the purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
   (E)   Violates the conditions of this subchapter or any final judicial order
entered with respect thereto.
(1992 Code, § 9-111) (Ord. 755, § 1(k), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.13 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT.
   Whenever the Town Council finds that a permittee has engaged in conduct
which justifies revocation of its permit, pursuant to this code, the town shall
serve or cause to be served upon the permittee a written notice by certified
mail, return receipt requested, stating the nature of the alleged violation.
Within 15 days of the date of receipt of the notice, the permittee shall
respond in writing to the Town Council advising of its position with respect to
the allegations. Thereafter the parties shall meet within 15 days to establish
a plan for the satisfactory correction of all confirmed violations.
(1992 Code, § 9-112) (Ord. 755, § 1(l), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.14 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   Where the violation of this code is not corrected by timely compliance by
means of administrative adjustment, the Town Council may order any discharger
which causes or allows conduct herein prohibited, to show cause before the
Council or its duly authorized representative, why the proposed permit
revocation should not be taken. A written notice shall be served on the
discharger by personal service, certified or registered, return receipt
requested, specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the Council
or its designee regarding the violation, the reasons why the enforcement action
is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the discharger
to show cause before the Council or its designee why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served not less
than 10 days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent, officer, or
authorized representative of a discharger. The proceedings at the hearing shall
be considered by the Council which shall then enter appropriate orders with
respect to the alleged improper activities of the discharger.
(1992 Code, § 9-113) (Ord. 755, § 1(m), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.15 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Following a finding by the Town Council that a permittee is not in
compliance with the provisions of this code, the Town Attorney may commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate local
court.
(1992 Code, § 9-114) (Ord. 755, § 1(n), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.16 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT VIOLATORS.
   The Town Council shall annually publish in the local daily newspaper a list
of the nonresidential dischargers which were not in compliance with applicable
pretreatment requirements or standards at least once during the previous 12
months. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken
against the dischargers during the same 12 months.
(1992 Code, § 9-115) (Ord. 755, § 1(o), passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.17 PRE-APPROVAL OF PLANS REQUIRED.
   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town,
and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted. Where the facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance with the
applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the
treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(1992 Code, § 9-116) (Ord. 755, § 2, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.18 UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems, or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available.
Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to a natural outlet
approved by the town and by the state. Where as storm sewer or natural sewer is
not available, the unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer
pending written approval by the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-117) (Ord. 755, § 3, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.19 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
54.18.
(1992 Code, § 9-118) (Ord. 755, § 4, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.20 WASTEWATER FLOW CHARACTERISTICS.
   The town may require users of the sewage works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. The
measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the users’ expense. If made
by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the option of
the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-119) (Ord. 755, § 5, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.21 SAMPLINGS AND ANALYSIS.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the Sewer Rate Ordinance, from samplings taken at
the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of a duration and in a
manner as the town may elect, or at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be
assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling
and analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges after
verification by the town.
(1992 Code, § 9-120) (Ord. 755, § 6, passed 1-23-1990)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Enforcement provisions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice of violation.
         (a)   Whenever the Town Marshal or Deputy Marshals shall find that the
owner or operator of any vehicle or other person has committed any action which
is declared unlawful by the provisions of Indiana traffic statutes or traffic
regulations of this code, the Marshal or Deputy Marshal shall give written
notice to the person of the violation. All notices shall be serially numbered
and shall contain the following information:
            1.   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
            2.   The license number and type of vehicle;
            3.   The name and address of the owner of the vehicle and the
operator of the vehicle, if possible to obtain the same;
            4.   The location of the violation;
            5.   The signature of the Marshal or Deputy Marshal;
            6.   The date of the violation; and
            7.   The amount of penalty prescribed by §
70.99 for the violation.
         (b)   The notice shall also contain the following statement: “Within
72 hours from the time of violation as shown on the notice of violation, bring
this notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s branch office, New Carlisle Police
Department, 124 East Michigan Street, New Carlisle, Indiana, or mail fine to
the address within 72 hours from time of violation, or warrant will be issued
for arrest which may result in extra costs.”
         (c)   All written notices shall be executed by the Town Marshal or
Deputy Marshal in triplicate. One copy shall be served upon the violator as
herein provided, 1 copy shall be filed by the officer with the Clerk-Treasurer,
and 1 copy shall be filed in the office of the Town Marshal. The latter 2
copies shall be filed in the respective offices by the Town Marshal or Deputy
Marshal at his or her earliest convenience before or when he or she goes off
duty at the particular day on which the notice was served on the violator.
      (2)   Payment of fines.
         (a)   Any person receiving written notice of a traffic violation
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall, within 72 hours from the date
of the violation, appear at the Clerk-Treasurer’s branch office, New Carlisle
Police Station, 124 East Michigan Street, New Carlisle, Indiana, and okay the
prescribed penalty by depositing the amount along with the notice of violation
with the officer on duty, or the person within such time may mail the fine with
the written notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s branch office. The penalties which
shall be payable in compromise of the violations of this chapter, shall be in
accordance with §
70.99 of this chapter.
         (b)   If any person receiving notice of violation shall fail to
compromise the violation, the Town Marshal shall prepare or cause to be
prepared a proper affidavit for the arrest of the violator. Any person who
fails to compromise the violation, upon conviction of the offense charged,
shall be liable for a fine in the amount prescribed by the presiding judge.
         (c)   In addition to the penalties provided for herein, the Town
Marshal or Deputy Marshal may cause any vehicle parked in violation of any
provision of Indiana traffic statues or traffic regulations of this code, to be
removed to a private garage or place where the same shall be impounded and
detained. The vehicle shall be released only upon order of the Town Marshal or
a Deputy Marshal after payment of the fine required by this chapter to be paid
in compromise of the violation and all costs of towing and storage.
(1992 Code, § 8-35)
   (B)   Nonexclusive jurisdiction. The Town Marshal or any Deputy Marshal may
file any motor vehicle violation in any court of competent jurisdiction in lieu
of using the provisions of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 8-36) (Ord. 399, passed - -1973)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties assessed for violations of this title shall be based upon the
following schedule, unless otherwise specified:
   (A)   For improper parking: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
   (B)   For non-moving traffic violations: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98; and
(Ord. 399-A, passed 8-26-1986)
   (C)   For moving traffic violations, as follows:
      (1)   Stop sign violation: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (2)   Improper passing: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (3)   Speeding not in excess of 15 mph over the speed limit: as set forth
in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (4)   Speeding in excess of 15 mph over the limit but not more than 25
mph over the limit: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (5)   Speeding in excess of 25 mph over the speed limit: as set forth in
the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (6)   Yield sign violation: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98;
      (7)   Improper U-turns: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98; and
      (8)   All other moving violations: as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 8-34) (Ord. 399, § 1, passed - -1978)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Alley speed limits
   
71.02   Engine brakes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 ALLEY SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate any motor vehicle at
a speed greater than 15 mph over and along any alley located within the town.
(1992 Code, § 8-16) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 ENGINE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any and all semi-tractor trailer operator(s) to use
or operate “engine brakes” within the town limits.
(Ord. 1026, passed 10-26-1999) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Anyone found to be in violation of §
71.02 may be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1026, passed 10-26-1999)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Sidewalk and parkway parking
   
72.02   General regulations as to parking, stopping, or standing
   
72.03   Limited parking areas
   
72.04   Sidewalk and alley parking; no parking zones
Parking Affected by Weather
   
72.20   Parking during snow conditions
   
72.21   Parking regulations to allow snow clearing
Restricted Parking Regulations for Street Sweeping
   
72.30   Parking regulations to allow street sweeping
   
72.31   Impounding
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 SIDEWALK AND PARKWAY PARKING.
   (A)   All parking or obstructing of any kind is prohibited on any sidewalk
or crosswalk in any part of the town.
   (B)   All parking on parkways, herein defined as the space between the curb
and sidewalk, shall be prohibited at all times in any part of the town.
(1992 Code, § 8-23) (Ord. 259, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS AS TO PARKING, STOPPING, OR STANDING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or traffic-control device at any place where official signs
prohibit stopping, standing, or parking.
   (B)   No person shall park or stop a vehicle within 15 feet of a fire
hydrant in either direction.
(1992 Code, § 8-26) (Ord. 210, passed - -1958; Am. Ord. 1369, passed 11-13-
2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITED PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park any vehicle in a
designated parking area for a time period which exceeds the time allowed by the
controlling traffic parking sign.
(1992 Code, § 8-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 SIDEWALK AND ALLEY PARKING; NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Sidewalk parking. All parking or obstructing of any kind is prohibited
on any sidewalk or crosswalk in any part of the town.
   (B)   Alley parking. Vehicles parked in alleys must be parked so that
persons using the alleys will not be endangered in any way.
   (C)   Parking areas. Vehicles must be parked so as not to interfere with
traffic. Double parking is a violation of state law.
   (D)   Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein, that
shall mean and refer to the official time as may be in current use in the town
at the time when any alleged offense occurs.
   (E)   No parking zone.
      (1)   A dead-end is defined as any street that ends without a cul-de-sac,
which is less than 60 feet long between the end of the road and the next
driveway or cross-road.
      (2)   A dead-end portion of any road is designated a no parking zone.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, vehicles may park within 60 feet of
the end of a road as long as there is a driveway or cross-road between the
parked car and the end of the road.
(1992 Code, § 8-26C) (Ord. 118, § 2, passed 4-5-1943; Ord. 118, § 4, passed 4-
5-1943; Am. Ord. 1325, passed 6-28-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
PARKING AFFECTED BY WEATHER
§ 72.20 PARKING DURING SNOW CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
        NOTICE OF SNOW CONDITION. A written notice to be placed on any vehicle
parked on any town street informing the owner, operator, or other person in
control of the vehicle to remove the vehicle within 24 hours of the declaration
of snow condition.
      SNOW CONDITION. A formal declaration by the President of the Town
Council, or any member acting in his or her absence, that the SNOW CONDITION in
the town is such that the streets are hazardous or partially or completely
impassable because of the excessive accumulation of snow, ice, or slush.
      VEHICLE. Any self-propelled, motorized vehicle.
   (B)   Declaration of snow condition.
      (1)   Upon the declaration by the President of the Town Council, or any
member acting in his or her absence, that the snow condition in the town is
such that the streets are hazardous or partially or completely impassable
because of the excessive accumulation of snow, ice, or slush, no vehicle shall
be parked on any town street after the expiration of a 24-hour period from the
time a written notice is placed on the vehicle, and the vehicle shall be moved
to a cleared area.
      (2)   In addition to the written notice to be placed on the parked
vehicle, the Town Marshal shall serve a copy of the written notice upon the
registered owner of the vehicle wherever he or she may be found or at his or
her residence in the town.
      (3)   The declaration of a snow condition is effective from November 1
through April 1.
      (4)   Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving under its own
power, or left unattended upon any street during a snow condition, shall be
impounded after the appropriate notice is given.
(1992 Code, § 8-28) (Ord. 508, passed - -1978)
§ 72.21 PARKING REGULATIONS TO ALLOW SNOW CLEARING.
   (A)   Parking on all town streets shall be regulated from November 1 to
April 1 each year within each 24-hour period, commencing at 8:00 a.m. November
1 as follows:
      (1)   On every odd-numbered day of the month, automobiles and other motor
vehicles shall be parked on the oddly numbered side of the street (north side
and west side); and
      (2)   On every even-numbered day of the month, automobiles and other
motor vehicles shall be parked on the evenly numbered side of the street (south
side and east side).
(Ord. 788, § 1, passed 12-11-1990)
   (B)   Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving under its own power,
or left unattended upon any street in violation of this section may be
impounded.
(Ord. 573, § 2, passed - -1981)
(1992 Code, § 8-29) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTED PARKING REGULATIONS FOR STREET SWEEPING
§ 72.30 PARKING REGULATIONS TO ALLOW STREET SWEEPING.
   (A)   Parking on all town streets shall be regulated from April 1 to
November 30 each year within each 24-hour period, commencing at 8:00 a.m., as
follows:
      (1)   On every odd-numbered day of the month, automobiles and other motor
vehicles shall be parked on the oddly numbered side of the street (north side
and west side); and
      (2)   On every even-numbered day of the month, automobiles and other
motor vehicles shall be parked on the evenly numbered side of the street (south
side and east side).
(1992 Code, § 8-75) (Ord. 986, § 1, passed 6-23-1998)
   (B)   Each 24-hour period shall start at 8:00 a.m. on one day and end at 8:
00 a.m. the next day (i.e., if parking on the north side on an odd day, the 24-
hour period does not change until 8:00 a.m. the next day, then parking shall be
on the south side).
(Ord. 1018, passed 5-25-1999)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.31 IMPOUNDING.
   Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving under its own power, or
left unattended upon any street in violation of this section may be towed or
impounded at the owner’s expense.
(1992 Code, § 8-76) (Ord. 986, § 2, passed 6-23-1998; Am. Ord. 1018, passed 5-
25-1999) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as set
forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, §§ 8-23, 8-28, 8-29, 8-77)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Snowmobile regulations
Skateboards, Rollerskates, and Rollerblades Regulations
   
73.15   Restricted activities
Bicycles
   
73.25   Definitions
   
73.26   Governed by state law
   
73.27   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.28   One person on a bicycle; exception
   
73.29   Highway regulations
   
73.30   Sidewalk regulations
   
73.31   Operation at night; equipment required
   
73.32   Warning devices required
   
73.33   Speed limits
   
73.34   Parking restrictions
   
73.35   Brakes required
   
73.36   Code provisions
Golf Carts
   
73.50   Definitions
   
73.51   Unlawful operation of a golf cart
   
73.52   Requirement of local registration
   
73.53   Requirement of driver’s license
   
73.54   Requirement of financial responsibility
   
73.55   Time of operation and nighttime restrictions
   
73.56   Slow moving vehicle reflective sign
   
73.57   Place of operation
   
73.58   Traffic laws and ordinances
   
73.59   Occupants
   
73.60   Towing
   
73.61   Fines
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Snowmobiles, off-road vehicles in parks and cemeteries, see
Ch. 90
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 SNOWMOBILE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The term SNOWMOBILE, as used in this section, shall mean any vehicle
self-propelled or motor driven used for operation or movement on snow, ice, or
slush.
   (B)   All snowmobiles are prohibited from being driven or operated by any
person on any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place in the town except
for the purpose of transporting the vehicle to a place for its authorized or
lawful use or sale.
   (C)   When the vehicle is operated for the purpose of transportation to a
place for its authorized or lawful use or sale, it shall be unlawful to operate
the vehicle at a speed in excess of 10 mph.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be driven or operated in the town with careless
disregard for or indifferent lack of attention to surrounding conditions and
circumstances.
(1992 Code, § 6-21) (Ord. 338A, passed - -1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLERSKATES, AND ROLLERBLADES REGULATIONS
§ 73.15 RESTRICTED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   When used throughout this section, DUE CARE shall be defined as
operating at a reasonable speed so as not to endanger pedestrians or vehicular
traffic.
   (B)   Persons who rollerskate, in-line skate, or ride or use a skateboard or
bicycle on sidewalks must at all times exercise due care for the safety of
other persons using the sidewalks.
   (C)   Persons who rollerskate, in-line skate, or ride or use a skateboard
must at all times yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and give pedestrians
audible warnings before overtaking and passing them.
(1992 Code, § 6-85) (Ord. 985, § 1, passed 6-23-1998) Penalty, see §
73.99
BICYCLES
§ 73.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
(1992 Code, § 8-1)
Statutory reference:
   State law definition of bicycle and state traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-
21-11 et seq.
§ 73.26 GOVERNED BY STATE LAW.
   Operators of bicycles, while on a public highway, shall conform to the rules
and regulations established for the operation of motor vehicles.
(1992 Code, § 8-2; § 6-86(a)) (Ord. 985, § 1, passed 6-23-1998) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Operators of bicycles shall obey the directions and instructions of an
official traffic-control device unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement
member.
(1992 Code, § 8-3; § 6-86(b)) (Ord. 985, § 1, passed 6-23-1998) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.28 ONE PERSON ON A BICYCLE; EXCEPTION.
   Not more than 1 person shall ride upon a bicycle unless that bicycle is
designed and manufactured to carry more than 1 person.
(1992 Code, § 8-4; § 6-86(c)) (Ord. 985, § 1, passed 6-23-1998) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.29 HIGHWAY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Bicycles shall be operated as close to the right-hand side of the
highway and in single file when passing other vehicles parked or moving.
(1992 Code, § 6-86(d)) (Ord. 985, § 1, passed 6-23-1998)
   (B)   Bicycles shall not be ridden more than 2 abreast at any time.
   (C)   No operator shall cause or permit a bicycle to curve to and fro.
   (D) The hands of the operator shall be on the handlebar at all times except
while in the act of signaling.
(1992 Code, § 8-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.30 SIDEWALK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles should give an audible signal a reasonable
distance before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
(1992 Code, § 8-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
73.15
§ 73.31 OPERATION AT NIGHT; EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Bicycles while being operated during the period of darkness shall display a
white light on the front thereof, the lamp to be securely fastened to the
bicycle, and plainly discernable from a distance of 300 feet ahead under normal
atmospheric conditions, and a red reflector on the rear thereof, which shall be
plainly visible at night in the lawful lights of motor vehicles for a distance
of 200 feet to the rear under like conditions.
(1992 Code, § 8-7) Penalty, §
73.99
§ 73.32 WARNING DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   No persons shall ride a bicycle unless it is equipped with a suitable
bell or other warning device audible for a distance of 100 feet or more.
   (B)   No persons riding bicycles shall have whistles or sirens as warning
devices.
(1992 Code, § 8-8) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate his or her bicycle at a speed greater than permits
him or her to bring his or her vehicle to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
(1992 Code, § 8-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.34 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street, sidewalk, or any rack or
against a building in a manner as to obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(1992 Code, § 6-86(e)) (Ord. 985, § 1, passed 6-23-1998)
   (B)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than the highway
against the curb or upon a sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or against
a building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least obstructions
to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(1992 Code, § 8-10) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.35 BRAKES REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the brake wheel skid on a dry, level pavement.
(1992 Code, § 8-11; § 6-86(f)) (Ord. 985, § 1, passed 6-23-1998) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.36 CODE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated
upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(1992 Code, § 8-12)
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Shall have the meaning expressed under I.C. 9-25-
4-1 et seq. (as it now reads or may be amended in the future).
   GOLF CART.  A 4-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport 1 or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose
of playing the game of golf on a golf course, not privately assembled.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart.
   SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTOR SIGN. A triangle-shaped reflective sign of the
same type required under state law.
   STATE HIGHWAY.  Any street under the control and/or maintained by the state
and shall include, but not be limited to, U.S. Highway 20.
   TOWN STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained or any public way open for the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel within the corporate limits of the town. The term
includes, but is not necessarily limited to, streets, alleys, roads, highways,
thoroughfares, or designated other areas specifically designated for golf
carts.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.51 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF A GOLF CART.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any town street except as
specifically authorized by this subchapter. Any person who operates a golf cart
in violation of the regulations set forth in this subchapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.52 REQUIREMENT OF LOCAL REGISTRATION.
   Any golf cart to be operated on a town street shall be registered annually
at the Police Department of the town. The annual permit will be valid from
January 1 until December 31 of the current year. Each registrant shall provide
the Vehicle Identification Number and proof of financial responsibility with
respect to each golf cart to be registered and shall pay a registration fee for
each golf cart to be registered as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. The registration certificate shall be displayed on the golf cart on
the left rear corner of vehicle so it is clearly visible at all times that it
is in operation. Each golf cart shall be subject to inspection for compliance
with this subchapter at the time of registration. A single-use or temporary
permit may be purchased for a specific period of time, not to exceed 5
consecutive days, for a registration fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.53 REQUIREMENT OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street must have a valid driver’s
license and must have the driver’s license in his or her possession while
operating a golf cart.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.54 REQUIREMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person may operate a golf cart on any town street unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart as provided under
I.C. 9-25-4-4 (as it now reads or may be amended in the future).
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.55 TIME OF OPERATION AND NIGHTTIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No golf carts shall be operated on any town street between 1/2 hour after
sunset and 1/2 hour before sunrise unless the golf cart is equipped with 2 head
lamps, 2 tail lamps, front and rear turn lamps, and rear brake lamps, all of
which must be visible from a distance of at least 500 feet.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.56 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street unless the golf cart is
equipped with a reflective slow moving vehicle sign of the same type and right
and left exterior mirrors, or interior mirrors required under state law.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.57 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart shall be operated on or at the following:
   (A)   Any town street or any portion of any town street where the speed
limit in effect at the place of operation is greater than 30 miles per hour;
   (B)   Any town street designated as a state highway, except to cross any
state highway by traveling on a town street perpendicular to the state highway
at a location where the town street intersects with the state highway; and
   (C)   Any sidewalk, trail, pedestrian bridge, or greenway path, not
specifically designated for use by a motor vehicle or golf cart.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.58 TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street shall comply with all traffic
laws and rules adopted by the state and/or the town, including restrictions and
prohibitions as set forth within this town code.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.59 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to 4 persons. The
operator and occupants shall be properly seated at all times and no part of the
body of the operator or occupants shall extend outside the perimeter of the
golf cart while the golf cart is in operation; provided, the operator shall use
proper traffic hand signals when required. No one under the age of 2 years
shall be permitted to be an occupant of a golf cart.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.60 TOWING.
   No golf cart shall be used to tow any type of trailer or other vehicle of
any type.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.61 FINES.
   (A)   Any fines collected under this subchapter shall be deposited into the
General Fund of the town.
   (B)   The Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle shall have the authority
to specifically permit the use of golf carts by identified persons at other
special events; provided, however, that the operator of the golf cart must
still be a licensed driver and financial responsibility must be in effect with
respect to the golf cart.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A).
   (B) Any person violating the provision of §
73.01 shall be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 6-21)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
73.15, 73.26 through 73.29, 73.34, and/or 73.35 shall be ticketed and fined as
set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 6-87)
   (D)   (1)   Any person in violation of the provisions of §§
73.50 through
73.61 shall be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   Each day a violation of §§
73.50 through
73.61 is permitted or suffered to continue shall institute a separate and
distinct violation.
      (3)   If 2 or more violations occur within the same calendar year, the
registration, whether annual, daily, or for an event, shall be suspended and
the owner or operator of the golf cart shall not be eligible for another
registration for the balance of the year.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-27-2009)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop signs
      
II.   Yield right-of-way signs
      
III.   One-way street signs
      
IV.   Do not enter signs
      
V.   Speed limits
      
VI.   Weight limits
      
VII.   Street name changes
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   The following stop signs are designated for the town:
At the Intersection Of:            Ord. No. Date Passed
Street # Signs With Street # Signs
At the Intersection Of:                         Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          # Signs With Street     # Signs
Ada Street      —     Arch Street     1       -        - -
Ada Street      1       Bray Street     —     -        - -
Ada Street      2       Filbert Street  —     -        - -
Ada Street      2       Race Street     —     -        - -
Arch Street     —        -                 23       - -1961
Ben Street      2       Bray Street     2       -        - -
Ben Street      2       Filbert Street  2       -        - -
Ben Street      1       Harris Street   2       612      - -1982
Bray Street     2       Dunn Road       2       692      6-9-1987
                                                1353     11-14-2017
Cherry Street   1       Chestnut Street —     -        - -
Chestnut Street 2       Arch Street     2       692      6-9-1987
                                                1353     11-14-2017
Chestnut Street 1       Bray Street     —     -        - -
Street          # Signs With Street     # Signs
Chestnut Street 2       Filbert Street  2       -        - -
Chestnut Street 1       Race Street     —     -        - -
Elm Street      2       Meridian Street 2       -        - -
Front Street    2       -                      -        - -
Front Street    2       Arch Street     —     -        - -
Front Street    2       Cherry Street   2       -        - -
Front Street    2       Filbert Street  1       -        - -
Front Street    1       Race Street     —     866, § 310-12-1993
Front Street    2       Meridian Street —     -        - -
Filbert Street  2       -                       294      - -1966
Harris Street   2       Ada Street      1       612      - -1982
Jon Street      —     Elm Street      1       -        - -
Jon Street      —     Front Street    2       346      - -1971
Meridian Street —     Front Street    2       -        - -
Race Street     —     Ben Street      2       -        - -
Race Street     —     Compton Street  1       -        - -
 
      (2)   The following additional stop signs are designated for the town:
 
At the Intersection of:                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                  # Signs With Street       # Signs
Bray Street             2       Front Street      2       906, § 37-25-1995
Filbert Street          2       Dunn Road         2       906, § 37-25-1995
Filbert Street          2       Front Street      2       906, § 37-25-1995
Jeri Court (southbound) 1       Dunn Road         —     906, § 37-25-1995
Potawatomi Dr.          2       Thunderbird Drive —     906, § 37-25-1995
 
 
At the Intersection of:                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Street        # Signs With Street # Signs
Race Street   —     Dunn Road   2       -        - -
Race Street   1       Marvel Lane —     906, § 37-25-1995
Zigler Street 1       Race Street —     906, § 37-25-1995
 
      (3)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting with this
schedule are repealed insofar as they affect this schedule.
(Ord. 692, § 8-19, passed 6-9-1987)
      (4)   All streets at intersections of Michigan Street of U.S. # 20.
(Ord. 231, passed - -1961)
   (B)   Every operator of a vehicle shall observe all stop signals and signs
erected by the town, by bringing his or her vehicle to a stop at such sign or
at a clearly marked stop line before entering an intersection except when
directed to proceed by a police officer.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 8-19)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (A)   The following yield right-of-way signs are designated for the town:
 
At the Intersection of:                     Ord. No. Date Passed
Street      # Signs With Street     # Signs
W. Chestnut —     Meridian Street 1       -        - -
 
   (B)   Every operator of a vehicle shall observe all “yield right-of-way”
signals and signs erected by the town, by yielding the right-of-way to other
vehicles at all intersections marked as “yield right-of-way” except when
directed to proceed by a police officer.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 8-20)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   The following signs are designated as 1-way for the town:
 
Street                                            # Signs Ord. No. Date Passed
East/west alley behind the Town Hall              2       -        -
North and south right-of-way behind the Town Hall 1       422      - -1974
 
   (B)   The east and west alley is made eastbound only.
(Ord. 422, passed - -1974)
   (C)   Chestnut Street from Arch to Filbert Street is made westbound only.
(Ord. 596, passed - -1982)
   (D)   Chestnut Street from Arch to Filbert Street shall be returned to east-
and westbound traffic.
(Ord. 647, § 8-21(e), passed 4-9-1985)
(1992 Code, § 8-21)
SCHEDULE IV. DO NOT ENTER SIGNS.
   The following signs are designated as “do not enter” for the town:
 
Street Intersection                                Ord. No. Date Passed
Street      # Signs Street                 # Signs
Arch Street —     Alley behind Town Hall 1       422      - -1974
 
(1992 Code, § 8-22) (Ord. 647, § 8-22, passed 4-9-1985)
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit going north and south on South Race Street from U.S.
20 to Dunn Road shall be 25 mph.
   (B)   The speed limit going north and south on South Harris Street shall be
posted at 20 mph. Any person violating the provisions of this division may be
fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 8-27) (Ord. 634, passed 8-14-1984)
   (C)   All speed limits within the town shall be 25 mph unless posted
differently.
SCHEDULE VI. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Major arterial: Traffic Category 9 per Handbook of Highway
Engineering; up to 4,000 trucks per day: Michigan Street U.S. 20.
   (B)   Collector streets: Traffic Category 7 per Handbook of Highway
Engineering. Ten-ton limit. Up to 100 trucks per day.
 
Street       Location
Bray Street  Michigan Street to Dunn Road
Dunn         East town limits to west town limits
Marvel Lane  Michigan Street to Timothy Road
Race Street  Michigan Street to Dunn Road
Timothy Road Marvel Lane to town limits
 
   (C)   Residential streets: Traffic Category 3 per Handbook of Highway
Engineering. Four-ton limit. All streets in the corporation limits, other than
those mentioned in major arterial and collector streets.
(Ord. 1120, passed 10-28-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE VII. STREET NAME CHANGES.
   The following street names have been changed:
 
Former Name                Current Name     Ord. No. Date Passed
Lawton Street              Thunderbird Lane 330      - -1969
“X” Road or North “XMarvel Lane      220      - -1960
 
(1992 Code, § 8-37)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking areas
      
II.   Two-hour parking areas
      
III.   Memorial Park parking lot regulations
      
IV.   Loading and unloading zones
      
V.   Disabled parking
      
VI.   New Carlisle municipal parking lot regulations
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park any vehicle
in an area designated by traffic parking signs as a “no parking area.”
   (B)   The parking area behind the New Carlisle Fire Station shall be
designated “New Carlisle Fire Department and Community Ambulance Personnel
Only.”
      (1)   This area shall be used for Fire Department and ambulance business
only.
      (2)   This area shall be designated by proper “No Parking” signs.
      (3)   All unauthorized vehicles shall be towed at owner’s expense.
(Ord. 576, passed - -1981)
   (C)   (1)   The north 1/2 of the 100 block of South Arch Street (west side)
shall be designated parking area. The first parking space to the north of the
alley on the west side of Arch Street shall be a designated disabled parking
stall only. This area shall be marked with proper signs and painted to so
designate the disabled parking only.
      (2)   Parking along the west side of the south 100 block of Arch Street
shall be as follows: the first 15 feet commencing at the corner of Michigan and
Arch Street shall be a “no parking” zone. The next 25 feet shall be a “loading
zone.” The next 27 feet (to the alley) shall be “handicap parking.” All parking
areas, no parking areas, and handicap areas shall be designated by appropriate
paint, markings, and signage.
(Ord. 1170, passed 6-12-2007)
      (3)   Parking along the west side on the north 100 block of Arch Street
shall be as follows: the first 20 feet commencing south from the back of
sidewalk on the corner of Front and Arch Street shall be a “no parking” zone.
The next 40 feet shall be “handicap parking.” All parking areas, no parking
areas and handicap areas shall be designated by appropriate paint, markings,
and signage.
      (4)   Any vehicle parking in the disabled parking stall without the
proper identification shall be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter
98.
      (5)   This division is added to the Ordinance Violations Bureau,
addressed in §
35.99.
(Ord. 948, § 1, passed 9-23-1997)
   (D)   The parking of any type of motor vehicle is prohibited on the east
side of Bray Street, commencing at the corner of Bray and Front Street for an
area of 20 feet from that corner extending in a northerly direction. Any person
violating the provisions of this division may be fined as set forth in the Fee
Schedule, Chapter 98.
(Ord. 558, passed - -1980)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park any vehicle
on the west side only of Thunderbird Lane from Michigan Street to the juncture
of Potowatomi Drive and Thunderbird Lane. “No parking” signs shall be removed
from the east side only and the yellow curbing shall be painted white.
(Ord. 474, passed - -1977)
   (F)   The parking of any type of motor vehicle is prohibited on the north
side of Chestnut Street, commencing at the corner of Arch Street and Chestnut
Street extending to the corner of Filbert Street and Chestnut Street. “No
parking” signs shall be posted on the north side of this portion of Chestnut
Street.
(Ord. 647, § 8-24(f), passed 4-9-1985)
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park any vehicle
on the east side of Bray Street from Ben Street to Dunn Road. Any vehicle
parking in the no parking zone shall be ticketed and fined as set forth in the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. This section of Bray Street shall be marked with signs and painted
curbs to so designate the no parking status. This division is added to the
Ordinance Violations Bureau, addressed in §
35.99.
(Ord. 919, §§ 1 - 4, passed 6-11-1996)
   (H)   No parking shall be allowed on the north side of Zigler Street from
the west end of Zigler Street proceeding 50 feet due east. Any vehicle parking
in the no parking zone shall be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Ord. 972, §§ 1, 2, passed 3-24-1998)
(1992 Code, § 8-24) (Am. Ord. 1251, passed 11-7-2011)
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park any type of
motor vehicle on the east side of the 100 block of North Filbert Street,
between Front Street and Michigan Street, and on the east side of the 100 block
of South Filbert, between Michigan Street and Chestnut Street. Any vehicle
parking in the no parking zone shall be ticketed and fined as set forth in the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Am. Ord. 1386, passed 12-3-2019)
SCHEDULE II. TWO-HOUR PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   There shall be designated 2-hour parking on the west side of South
Arch Street from Michigan Street to Chestnut Street. Two-hour parking shall be
from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   The parking of any vehicle by any person shall be limited to 2-hour
parking between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays
and holidays, and except on Saturdays which 2-hour limit shall be in effect
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., within the district or upon any
of the streets as follows; provided that this time limit does not apply to
those streets or sections of streets designated as “no parking” and “15-minute
parking.”
 
Street          Location
Arch Street     From Michigan Street south 1 block to Chestnut Street
Filbert Street  From Michigan Street south to the first alley; from Michigan
                Street north to the first alley
                Both sides, from Arch Street to the second alley west of
Michigan Street Filbert Street, namely the alley shown between Lots #82 and #83
                on the original plat of New Carlisle
 
(1992 Code, § 8-26A) (Ord. 118, § 2, passed 4-5-1943) Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
SCHEDULE III. MEMORIAL PARK PARKING LOT REGULATIONS.
   There shall be no semi-tractor/trailer and/or commercial vehicle parking
within the Memorial Park parking lot located adjacent to Memorial Park on the
west side.
(1992 Code, § 8-26B) (Ord. 863, §§ 1-3, passed 9-14-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
SCHEDULE IV. LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Loading Zone #1. Loading Zone #1 shall be located in the 100 block of
East Michigan Street, starting at the northwest corner of Arch Street and
Michigan Street, proceeding 25 feet west on Michigan Street.
(1992 Code, § 8-65) (Ord. 928, § 1, passed 10-8-1996)
   (B)   Loading Zone #2. Loading Zone #2 shall be located in the 100 block of
East Michigan Street starting at the northeast corner of Filbert Street and
Michigan Street, proceeding 25 feet east on Michigan Street.
(1992 Code, § 8-66) (Ord. 928, § 2, passed 10-8-1996)
   (C)   Green loading zone curbs. Curbs for Loading Zones 1 and 2 shall be
painted green with loading signs to be posted at each end of the loading zones.
(1992 Code, § 8-67) (Ord. 928, § 3, passed 10-8-1996)
   (D)   Thirty-minute time limits. Time limit for Loading Zone #1 and Loading
Zone #2 shall be 30 minutes.
(1992 Code, § 8-68) (Ord. 928, § 4, passed 10-8-1996)
   (E)   Violations and penalties. Any person found in violation of this
schedule shall be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. This fine shall be doubled if not paid within 72 hours. This
schedule is added to the Ordinance Violation Bureau, addressed in §
35.99.
(1992 Code, § 8-69) (Ord. 928, §§ 5-6, passed 10-8-1996)
SCHEDULE V. DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   There shall be 2 designated parking spaces for disabled parking:
      (1)   One on the south side of the east 100 block of Michigan Street; and
      (2)   The second on the north side of the east 100 block of Michigan
Street.
   (B)   The 2 designated disabled parking spaces shall be placed adjacent to
existing ramps.
(1992 Code, § 8-45) (Ord. 832, § 1, passed 6-9-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
SCHEDULE VI. NEW CARLISLE MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Disabled parking space designated. The first parking space at the
southeast end of the municipal parking lot shall be designated as a parking
space for the disabled only.
(1992 Code, § 8-55) (Ord. 693-A, § 1, passed 9-8-1987)
   (B)   Limited parking.
      (1)   Parking on the east side of the municipal lot, starting at the
center point, shall be limited to even days during the hours of 12:00 a.m. to
8:00 a.m.
      (2)   Parking on the west side of the municipal lot, starting at the
center point, shall be limited to odd days during the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 8:
00 a.m.
(1992 Code, § 8-56) (Ord. 875, § 1, passed 3-22-1994)
   (C)   Impounding vehicles. Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving
under its own power, or left unattended in the municipal parking lot over a 48-
hour period may be impounded.
(1992 Code, § 8-59) (Ord. 693-A, § 6, passed 9-8-1987)
Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
Editor’s note:
   The Indiana Department of Transportation in its letter of July 2, 1992
denied the 30-minute time limit, therefore § 2 of Ord. 832 has not been
included.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION; CEMETERIES
      
91.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND TREES
      
92.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
97.   REFUSE AND THE LIKE; WEEDS
      
98.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION; CEMETERIES
Section
Department of Parks and Recreation; Board
   
90.01   Authority to operate
   
90.02   Department of Parks and Recreation established
   
90.03   Board of Parks and Recreation established
   
90.04   Composition of the Park Board
   
90.05   Terms of Park Board members
   
90.06   Removal of Park Board members
   
90.07   No compensation for Park Board members
   
90.08   Meetings of the Park Board
   
90.09   Park Board officers; quorum
   
90.10   Duties of the Park Board
   
90.11   Powers of the Park Board
   
90.12   Incorporation of the State Park and Recreation Law
   
90.13   Naming of town parks
   
90.14   Regulations for town parks
   
90.15   Gazebo and shelters in town parks
Parks and Cemetery Regulations for Snowmobiles/Off-Road Vehicles
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Snowmobiles and/or off-road vehicles prohibited
Cemetery Regulations
   
90.40   Cemetery Board of Trustees established
   
90.41   Five-member Board
   
90.42   Board officers
   
90.43   Cemetery Board duties
   
90.44   Cemetery Board meetings
   
90.45   Superintendent of Cemetery
   
90.46   Application procedures for interment
   
90.47   Charges for the New Carlisle Cemetery
   
90.48   Transfer of lots
   
90.49   Markers
   
90.50   Ornaments prohibited
   
90.51   Planting and mounds prohibited
   
90.52   Cut flower regulations
   
90.53   Permit required
   
90.54   Foundation requirements
   
90.55   Hours of entrance; speed limit
   
90.56   Vandalism prohibited
   
90.57   Gratuity prohibited
   
90.58   Care and preservation
   
90.59   Charges set by ordinance
   
90.60   Role of Clerk-Treasurer
   
90.61   General Cemetery Fund
   
90.62   Perpetual Care Fund
   
90.63   Accountings
   
90.64   In perpetuity care
   
90.65   Care of graves by contract
   
90.66   No compensation for Board
 
   
90.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Foundation Detail
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; BOARD
§ 90.01 AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
   The town may establish, aid, maintain, and operate public parks,
playgrounds, and recreation facilities and programs.
(1992 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Recreation facilities and programs, see I.C. 36-10-2-2
§ 90.02 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Department of Parks and Recreation is established for the purpose
of promoting and providing greater opportunities for park and recreation
programs.
   (B)   Because recreation is a fundamental need essential to the well-being
of people, and because parks are primary facilities for public recreation, it
is the purpose to consolidate the services into 1 department.
(1992 Code, § 5-2) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 90.03 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION ESTABLISHED.
   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall be composed of:
   (A)   A Board of Parks and Recreation (Park Board); and
   (B)   Other personnel as the Town Council may determine.
(1992 Code, § 5-3) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 90.04 COMPOSITION OF THE PARK BOARD.
   (A)   The Park Board shall be composed of 5 members.
   (B)   The 5 members shall be recommended by the Park Board and be approved
by the Town Council. The Park Board members shall be selected on the basis of
their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation.
   (C)   The Town Council Park Liaison will attend and participate in Park
Board meetings but shall not vote at Park Board meetings. The Town Council Park
Liaison will provide active communication between the Town Council and the Park
Board.
(1992 Code, § 5-4) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 90.05 TERMS OF PARK BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   Upon establishment of the Park Board, the term of the members
initially appointed shall be 1, 2, 3, and 4 years. Thereafter, as a term
expires, each new appointment shall be for a 4-year term. All terms shall
expire on the first Monday in January, but an appointee shall continue in
office until his or her successor is appointed. If, to ensure the Park Board
has members, the Town Council does not enforce term limits, it may later
enforce term limits at its discretion.
   (B)   If a vacancy occurs on the Park Board, the Park Board may recommend
and the Town Council may approve a member for the unexpired term.
(1992 Code, § 5-5) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 90.06 REMOVAL OF PARK BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   A member may be removed only for cause upon specific written charges
filed against him or her.
   (B)   The charges shall be filed with the Town Council, the appointing
authority who shall fix a date for public hearing and shall give public notice
at least 10 days in advance of the hearing.
   (C)   The member is entitled to present evidence and argument and to be
represented by an attorney.
(1992 Code, § 5-6) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of Park Board members, see I.C. 36-10-3-6
§ 90.07 NO COMPENSATION FOR PARK BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Park Board shall receive no salaries.
   (B)   Park Board members shall be entitled to reimbursement for any actual
expenses incurred in carrying out Park Board duties through appropriation
pursuant to applicable state statutes.
(1992 Code, § 5-7) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation and reimbursement of expenses for Board members, see I.C. 36-
10-3-9
§ 90.08 MEETINGS OF THE PARK BOARD.
   (A)   All meetings of the Park Board shall be in public.
   (B)   The Park Board shall fix the time and place of its meetings, with the
meetings being at least quarterly.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the President of the Park Board or
by 2 members giving written request to the Secretary.
(1992 Code, § 5-8) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 90.09 PARK BOARD OFFICERS; QUORUM.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting each year, the Park Board shall elect a
President and Vice- President and select a Secretary.
   (B)   A majority of the Park Board members constitutes a quorum, with
official action of the Park Board needing at least 4 Park Board members present
and acting.
   (C)   The President shall run the Park Board meetings. The Vice-President
shall serve as President in the event the President is unable to attend a
meeting. The Secretary shall take the minutes of the Park Board meetings and is
responsible for all official Department of Parks and Recreation records and
official documents, to be kept at Town Hall.
   (D)   The President of the Park Board shall meet with the Town Council Park
Liaison on a regular basis to keep the Town Council apprised of the Park
Board's needs and activities and is encouraged to attend Town Council meetings.
(1992 Code, § 5-9) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of the Board of Parks and Recreation, officers and quorum, see I.C.
36-10-3-8
§ 90.10 DUTIES OF THE PARK BOARD.
   The Park Board shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Exercise general supervision of and make rules for the Department of
Parks and Recreation;
   (B)   Establish rules governing the use of park and recreation facilities by
the public for submission to the Town Council Park Liaison for review and
approval by the Town Council;
   (C)   Prepare an annual plan for operation of the parks and recreation
facilities for submission to the Town Council Park Liaison for review and
approval by the Town Council. To help facilitate the creation of the Annual
Plan, prior to making recommendations to the Town Council Park Liaison, the
Park Board President shall meet with the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Department
Supervisors to discuss town and Department of Parks and Recreation capital
needs on a regular basis.
   (D)   Make recommendations and submit an annual report concerning the
operation of park and recreation programs to the Town Council Park Liaison for
review and approval by the Town Council.
   (E)   Administer the Park Board plans and Department of Parks and Recreation
programs.
   (F)   Work with the Clerk-Treasurer to prepare an annual budget of the
Department of Parks and Recreation for submission to the Town Council for
review and approval.
   (G)   Maintain and preserve all records and official documents of the Park
Department and the Park Board, to be kept at Town Hall.
   (H)   Recommend persons for appointment to the Park Board.
   (I)   Identify projects and needs of the Department of Parks and Recreation
and seek information regarding opportunities, costs and funding for submission
to the Park Liaison and for review and approval by the Town Council.
   (J)   Meet with the Town Council Park Liaison on a regular basis to keep the
Town Council apprised of the Park Board's needs and activities.
   (K)   Prepare and update on a regular basis a 5-year and a 10-year
development plan for the Department of Parks and Recreation, for submission to
the Town Council Park Liaison for review and approval by the Town Council.
   (L)   Exercise other duties authorized by statute and the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Board of Parks and Recreation, officers and quorum, see I.C.
36-10-3-8 and I.C. 36-10-3-10
§ 90.11 POWERS OF THE PARK BOARD.
   The Park Board may make recommendations to the Town Council on matters,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Entering into contracts and leases for facilities and services; and
   (B)   Acquisition and disposal of real and personal property.
(1992 Code, § 5-12) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of the Board of Parks and Recreation, see I.C. 36-10-3-11
§ 90.12 INCORPORATION OF THE STATE PARK AND RECREATION LAW.
   The applicable sections of the Park and Recreation Law presently found at
I.C. 36-10-3-1 through I.C. 36-10-3-39, as it may be amended from time to time,
are incorporated herein by reference.
(1992 Code, § 5-14) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Park Superintendent, see I.C. 36-10-3-14
§ 90.13 NAMING OF TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   The 7 acres more or less on the west side of the town which have been
deeded to the town for park purposes shall be named "Bourissa Hill Park," after
its first owner of record, Lazarus Bourissa.
(Ord. 250, passed --1963)
   (B)   The 2 acres more or less bounded by Michigan, Bray, Chestnut, and
College, which were deeded to the town for park purposes in 1980, shall be
named "Memorial Park."
(1992 Code, § 5-15) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 90.14 REGULATIONS FOR TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   Hours. The town parks shall be closed each day from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00
a.m.
   (B)   Motor vehicle regulations. No motorized vehicles such as cars, trucks,
go-carts, motorbikes, mopeds, motorcycles, golf carts, trailers and the like
shall be allowed in the parks except in designated parking areas and except
vehicles with permits during special events.
   (C)   Prohibited parking. It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor
vehicle to park any motor vehicle in the designated parking areas of town parks
after 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m. except as approved by the Town Council in
a special event permit application.
(1992 Code, § 5-16) (Ord. 46n, passed - -1976; Ord. 619, passed 6-28-1983; Ord.
1197, passed - -2008; Am. Ord. 1274, passed 6-25-2013; Am. Ord. 1308, passed 5-
14-2015; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
§ 90.15 GAZEBO AND SHELTERS IN TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   Any request for use of the gazebo or shelters in the town parks shall
be in writing and accompanied by a deposit in an amount set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98, presented at least 14 days prior to the date needed.
   (B)   Upon satisfactory inspection of the premises for removal of all
decorations, equipment and refuse, a refund will be issued as set forth in the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   All proceeds from use of the shelters and gazebo shall be deposited in
the Non-Reverting Park Fund (see §
37.11).
(1992 Code, § 5-17) (Ord. 780, § 1, passed 7-24-1990; Am. Ord. 1197, passed - -
2008; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 7-9-2024)
PARKS AND CEMETERY REGULATIONS FOR SNOWMOBILES/OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY, STREET or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines
of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor-driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel, without
benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow, ice,
marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited to,
a multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicle, amphibious machine, ground
effect air cushion vehicle, or other means of transportation deriving motive
power from a source other than muscle or wind.
      (2)   It does not include a farm vehicle being used for farming, a
vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes, constructions, mining,
or other industrial related vehicles used in performance of its common function
or a registered aircraft, and does not include for registration any other
vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and any watercraft
which is registered pursuant to state statutes.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or any off-road vehicle.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any motor-driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice of a type which utilizes sled type runners or skis or an endless belt
tread or any combination of these or other similar means of contact with the
surface upon which it is operated.
   VEHICLE. A snowmobile or off-road vehicle.
(1992 Code, § 5-18) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008)
Statutory reference:
   Off-road vehicle regulations, see I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq.
§ 90.31 SNOWMOBILES AND/OR OFF-ROAD VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be allowed to operate a snowmobile and/or off-road vehicle
within the boundaries of the New Carlisle Cemetery or town parks.
(1992 Code, § 5-19) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
Cross-reference:
   Snowmobile regulations, see §
73.01
CEMETERY REGULATIONS
§ 90.40 CEMETERY BOARD OF TRUSTEES ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Board of Trustees for the New Carlisle Cemetery
which shall be known as the “New Carlisle Cemetery Board.”
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.41 FIVE-MEMBER BOARD.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board shall consist of 5 Trustees. Four Trustees shall be
appointed by the Town Council from residents of the Town of New Carlisle.
Residents of St. Joseph and La Porte Counties in Indiana that shall own 1 or
more certificates to a burial site or sites in the New Carlisle Cemetery and
who shall be at least 21 years of age are also eligible for appointment to the
Cemetery Board. The Town Council shall appoint 1 such trustee to a 4-year term;
and 1 to a 3-year term; 1 to a 2-year term; and 1 to a 1-year term. Thereafter
each year the Town Council shall, on the anniversary date of said appointments,
appoint 1 Trustee to succeed the Trustee whose term expires during such year;
however, in event of death, resignation, or disqualification for any reason of
any Trustee whose term has not expired, the Town Council shall appoint a
successor to hold office for the remainder of the term for which said withdrawn
Trustee was appointed.
   (B)   The fifth Trustee shall be a member of the Town Council and designated
by that Council to serve on the Cemetery Board.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003; Am. Ord. 1292, passed 5-27-2014)
§ 90.42 BOARD OFFICERS.
   The officers of the Cemetery Board shall consist of a Chair and a Secretary,
chosen by the Cemetery Board from its members, and thereafter annually at the
April meeting shall choose from among themselves the officers. It shall be the
duty of the Chair to preside at all meetings, of the Secretary to keep all
minutes of the meetings. The Clerk-Treasurer will serve as a Treasurer and to
be custodian of all monies. The Trustees shall, before entering upon their
duties as such, take and subscribe to an oath that they will each faithfully
perform their duties as the Trustees and true account make of their stewardship
in the premises.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.43 CEMETERY BOARD DUTIES.
   The duties of the Cemetery Board shall be the control and management of the
affairs of the New Carlisle Cemetery, the setting of rates to charge the users
of the cemetery, the responsibility of keeping the cemetery in good condition,
the responsibility for beautification, landscaping, perpetual care, and the
Perpetual Care Fund, and other duties as the Town Council shall from time to
time prescribe.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003; Am. Ord. 1447, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 90.44 CEMETERY BOARD MEETINGS.
   The Cemetery Board shall meet at least once a month, if necessary, for the
purpose of conducting the cemetery business and the monthly meeting shall be
held at a regular time and place as set by the Cemetery Board. Three Trustees
of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Chair may call additional special
meetings each month, as necessity may require, upon his or her own motion, or
shall call a special meeting upon the petition of not less than 3 members of
the Board. All meetings shall be held in the town. If the Chair shall not be
present at any meeting, the members present shall choose from among those
present a Chair pro tem; likewise as to the Secretary.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.45 SUPERINTENDENT OF CEMETERY.
   The Cemetery Board may, from time to time, appoint a Superintendent of the
cemetery and fix his or her salary which shall be provided for in the cemetery
annual budget, subject to approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.46 APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR INTERMENT.
   Those desiring to purchase the right of interment in the cemetery, shall
make application to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall have a file in his or her
office plats and plans showing by number and designated location every lot
available to the public. A designee appointed by the Cemetery Board shall
identify the exact location of the grave site to the purchaser. On a selection
being effected, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the applicant a selection card
showing number, location, and area as well as price fixed therefor. The card
shall be presented upon making payment therefor in cash or bankable notes and
the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the purchaser a receipt for the lot or plot.
The receipt so issued shall secure to the purchaser, his or her heirs and blood
relatives a burial place forever. Permission to inter in plots or lots covered
by the receipt to other than blood relatives, on application of the receipt
holder or his or her heirs, may be granted on the discretion of the Cemetery
Board, and sales of plots or lots to others by the receipt holder, or his or
her heirs, shall be ineffective without consent of the Cemetery Board. If
permission is granted to the transfer, it shall be recorded with the Clerk-
Treasurer and a transfer fee charged therefor. No monument shall be placed at
the grave on any lot without a permit therefor, which the Cemetery Board shall
issue on application of the person or persons having lawful control of the
certificate, and if there be more than 1 person having control of the
certificate, then upon application of all the persons.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.47 CHARGES FOR THE NEW CARLISLE CEMETERY.
   (A)   Charges are established for openings and closing of adult and
stillborn or cremation graves, sales of full and half lots, and sales of single
and stillborn graves, as set forth in the fee schedule,
Chapter 98. Cremation plots sized 12 inches by 15 inches shall be available for
purchase for $500 in the Cemetery’s “Flower Garden Addition.” The charge for
closing and opening the graves is $300 on weekdays and $500 on weekends and
holidays. All engraving must conform to use of standard font “Vermarko” with
the top and bottom lines 3/4 inch size and the center line one inch size.
   (B)   A charge is set forth in the fee schedule,
Chapter 98 for each and every transaction transferring ownership of a grave
site or sites on any single lot including transfer of the entire lot. Transfer
to more than one person of grave sites on the same lot accomplished
simultaneously shall be considered one transaction. When transfers are
requested involving more than one lot, each transfer involving a separate lot
shall be considered a separate transaction. The charge shall be paid in full at
the time of transfer.
   (C)   Sale of stillborn lots for burial are limited to Lots 270, 299, 306,
and 335 in Block 2 of the first addition.
   (D)   Vaults are required for all adult graves.
   (E)   Any person or persons seeking purchase of a lot or lots, grave site or
sites and/or work to be done for which an installment method of payment is
desired shall pay a minimum of 10% down payment and the balance in 12 equal
monthly installments. No interest shall be assessed if paid when due. After
maturity, interest shall accrue at 8% annual percentage rate on the unpaid
balance until fully paid.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 10-14-2003; Am. Ord. 1207,
passed 2-24-2009; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-23-2016; Am. Ord. 1330, passed 8-23-
2016)
§ 90.48 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   Upon the decease of any lot owner or transfer of any lot or grave site, the
heirs or devisees of the descendent shall file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer full proof of their heirship or the transference of their ownership,
for the purpose of recording the same in the cemetery records. No recognition
as owner will be granted until the transfer has been entered upon the records.
(Ord. 786, § 8, passed 12-11-1990; Am. Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.49 MARKERS.
   The corners of all lots shall be permanently marked by markers supplied by
the Cemetery Board and shall not be disturbed except by authority. The numbers
of lots are placed on the southwest corners of the lots.
(Ord. 786, § 9, passed 12-11-1990; Am. Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.50 ORNAMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No lot or parcel of ground shall be defined by any fence, railing, hedge,
embankment, or depression. Boxes, shells, toys, rustic work, and other so-
called ornaments and architectural objects are considered injurious to the
beauty and dignity of the cemetery and will not be permitted.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.51 PLANTING AND MOUNDS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall plant on graves or lots without previously securing the
permission of the Cemetery Board. No shrubbery shall be permitted on any lot.
No grave mounds shall be permitted.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.52 CUT FLOWER REGULATIONS.
   All cut flowers shall be placed in vases, provided by the lot owners, sunk
to the level of the ground, or immediately adjacent to the monument.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.53 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No interments in any grave shall be permitted without applications therefor
made at least 24 hours before the hour fixed for interment. No burial will be
allowed without first securing from the Clerk-Treasurer a permit to make the
same. No disinterment or removal shall be allowed without the permit from the
Clerk-Treasurer. Applications for permits shall be made in writing by the owner
or owners; if more than 1 owner, joint or in common, then the application is to
be granted or withheld as and upon the same terms as provided by §
90.46 of this subchapter concerning monuments, and all other questions of use
or occupancy of the lots shall be determined in the same manner. The designee
appointed by the Cemetery Board shall identify the exact location of the grave
site for all interments and/or disinterments.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.54 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All foundations for monuments and other permanent memorials must be
constructed in accordance with
Appendix A of this chapter. All monument foundations to be installed level and
onto compacted sub-base. Monument parts shall be sealed together and to
foundation with monument setting compound or equal. Construction of foundations
for same must be brought before the Board for permission to be granted. Design
of foundation for monument to be determined by the Board upon consent of same.
An inspection fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 shall be paid to the Cemetery General Fund. Seventy-five percent of
this fee shall be paid to the Town Building Inspector in January after the fees
have been collected. The remaining fee, if any, shall be retained in the
Cemetery General Fund.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.55 HOURS OF ENTRANCE; SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to enter the cemetery by any other means
than through the entrance gates. No unauthorized person shall enter into any
part of the New Carlisle Cemetery 1/2 hour after dusk until 1/2 hour after
dawn.
   (B)   No vehicle shall enter or move about the cemetery grounds at a speed
in excess of 10 mph, and in no case shall any vehicle pass by or come in
contact with funeral processions.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
§ 90.56 VANDALISM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall pluck any plants or flowers, whether wild or cultivated,
except upon graves within the control of the person. No tree or monument shall
be defaced, damaged, or interfered with. All rubbish, withered flowers, paper,
and other articles of trash and debris must be placed in the rubbish basket
provided for that purpose, and it is made unlawful to cast any articles about
the grounds, walks, on graves, or in paths.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)
§ 90.57 GRATUITY PROHIBITED.
   No money or gratuity shall be paid to any attendant upon the cemetery
grounds for any purpose.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.58 CARE AND PRESERVATION.
   The laws of the state, in respect of the care, preservation, desecration of,
and misconduct upon or in reference to cemeteries are to be enforced and are
not to be deemed in any respect modified or repealed by the provisions of this
subchapter. The New Carlisle Cemetery Board is charged with the duty of
reporting any infraction of any of the provisions of this subchapter or the
laws of the state in respect to cemeteries to the Clerk-Treasurer who shall
bring it to the notice of the Town Council for appropriate action.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.59 CHARGES SET BY ORDINANCE.
   All cemetery charges and fees shall be fixed by ordinance of the Town
Council upon recommendation of the Cemetery Board.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.60 ROLE OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   Orders for burial plots and services of any nature must be given to the
Clerk-Treasurer, and all money must be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer, who will
issue receipt therefor.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.61 GENERAL CEMETERY FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town, upon receipt of any money for or on
account of lands or services about the cemetery, shall deposit the same in the
treasury of the town and credit the payments to the General Cemetery Fund.
   (B)   During each calendar month the following distribution of the fund
shall be made.
      (1)   First, there shall be paid all expenses, except perpetual care, in
and about the superintendence and maintenance of the cemetery including
salaries and laborers.
      (2)   Second, there shall be paid into the general treasury of the town
3% of the amount the town has expended for the land whereon the cemetery is
located together with 6% on the amount paid for the land for which
reimbursement has not been made to the town, the percentage on interest to be
computed at 6% annually, the amount upon which the interest shall be levied
being the amount remaining unreimbursed at the beginning of the calendar month
during which the interest is computed.
      (3)   Third, all receipts of money for the Perpetual Care Fund shall be
designated as such and retained by the Treasurer; the Treasurer shall provide a
monthly accounting of the accrued sum to the Cemetery Board.
      (4)   Fourth, any balance shall remain in the General Cemetery Fund.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.62 PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   The Cemetery Board shall each month determine what disposition shall be made
of Perpetual Care Fund money collected by the Treasurer the previous month.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.63 ACCOUNTINGS.
   The Cemetery Board may, from time to time, sell and reinvest the proceeds of
any securities held by them. They shall, after payment of expenses, hereinafter
stated, reinvest all interest and other income from the investment. The
Treasurer shall keep accurate account of all investments made and shall exhibit
to the Town Council and the Cemetery Board whenever called upon so to do, all
books showing the state of the investment and income derived and expended
during any period. No action taken by the Cemetery Board shall be binding as
such unless taken in general or special session.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.64 IN PERPETUITY CARE.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board shall be bound to contract for the care of all
graves in the real estate in St. Joseph County, Indiana described in division
(B) below, in perpetuity to the extent of the income from the Perpetual Care
Fund, but shall not use any of the corpus thereof.
   (B)   Beginning at a point on the west line of Section 34 Township 38 north,
Range 1 west, 1,569 feet, 10 inches north of the center of Lincoln Highway,
which point is the northwest corner of the New Carlisle Cemetery; thence east
80 degrees east 307.3 feet to the northeast corner of the cemetery; thence
south 1460.5 feet to the southeast corner; thence west 300 feet to the
southwest corner; thence north to the place of beginning, containing 10-1/
2 acres.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.65 CARE OF GRAVES BY CONTRACT.
   The Cemetery Board may arrange for the care of graves by contract with the
Town Council, or through private contracts, as in its judgment it may deem
advantageous.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.66 NO COMPENSATION FOR BOARD.
   The Cemetery Board shall serve without compensation for its services.
(Ord. 1110, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any part of §
90.15 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 5-16) (Ord. 1197, passed - -2008)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.31 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 5-19) (Ord. 852, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1197, passed - -2008)
APPENDIX A: FOUNDATION DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 91: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND TREES
Section
Parades, Carnivals, or Circuses
   
91.01   Permits required
   
91.02   Town Marshal to be notified
Sidewalk Construction
   
91.10   Conformance required
   
91.11   Permit required
   
91.12   Driveways and alley crossings
   
91.13   Inspection and acceptance of material and work
   
91.14   Notice to property owners
   
91.15   Disposition of dirt and old material
   
91.16   Tampering with grade stakes on sidewalks
Excavations
   
91.25   Compliance with regulations required
   
91.26   Application and permit
   
91.27   Bond required
   
91.28   Inspection and safety of excavations
   
91.29   Protection of adjacent property
   
91.30   Surface restoration
   
91.31   Permit fees for excavations
   
91.32   Emergencies; time limits
Tree Lawn Regulations
   
91.40   Tree lawn application
   
91.41   Homeowner’s responsibility
   
91.42   Trimming trees
   
91.43   Removal of trees
   
91.44   Park Board exempt
   
91.45   Permit and bond requirements
 
   
91.99   Penalty
PARADES, CARNIVALS, OR CIRCUSES
§ 91.01 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Any person or group of persons desiring to conduct a parade, circus,
carnival, or other similar event within the town shall first obtain a permit
from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 4-56) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 TOWN MARSHAL TO BE NOTIFIED.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Town Marshal of the issuance of any
permit for any parade, carnival, circus, or other similar event.
(1992 Code, § 4-57)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.10 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All sidewalks made new, replaced or repaired in the town shall be made
in conformity with the provisions of the sidewalk standards set forth in the
zoning chapter.
(1992 Code, § 7-100)
   (B)   In “LB,” Light Business, or “CB,” Community Business zoned areas
within the town, the owner may install either a concrete sidewalk in conformity
with the town code specifications or interlocking concrete pavers, at the
option of the owners, according to the following specifications.
      (1)   Conformance standard for interlocking concrete pavers. Solid
interlocking paving units meeting the requirements of ASTM C-936-96 with a
minimum thickness of 2-3/8 inches. A minimum of 4 inches of INDOT #53 compacted
aggregate base must be under the concrete paver and the base must be inspected
by the Town Director of Public Works or Town Building Inspector prior to
placing a 1-inch sand setting bed (INDOT No. 23 or 24). Steel edging or trough
concrete surface will be used on all edges. All paving units must be
interlocking and cut with a power saw to fit the edging. After the paving units
are installed, sand will be swept into the joints and a plate compactor used on
the paving units. Color and type of the paving units will be approved by the
Town Director of Public Works or Town Building Inspector prior to installation.
      (2)   Site plan. A site plan showing complete detail, including
construction, obstacles, landscape enhancement, retaining walls shall be
submitted to the Town Engineer, prior to construction or demolition, for his or
her approval. The purpose of requiring a site plan showing landscape
enhancement is to promote the stability of the land, values, and investments,
the orderly development of the town and the general welfare. These purposes can
best be realized through avoidance of unsightly, undesirable, and incompatible
design in relation to the physical landscape and character of the area in which
the construction is proposed.
(Am. Ord. 1158, passed 11-28-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring or required to build, replace, or repair any sidewalk
within the town, before doing or commencing any construction work except where
sidewalks are to be laid in accordance with the provisions of special
improvement resolutions, must file an application for a permit with the Clerk-
Treasurer, which application shall be signed by the owner or agent of the
abutting property where the sidewalk is to be built, replaced, or repaired.
(1992 Code, § 7-101) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 DRIVEWAYS AND ALLEY CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Where driveways are to be built across the sidewalk space, they shall
conform to the sidewalk grade and shall be the same quality and material as
specified for walks.
   (B)   All alley crossings shall be constructed of concrete of the same
finish and material as specified for walks, and will be concave or straight as
may be ordered by the Town Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF MATERIAL AND WORK.
   The material for all sidewalks hereafter built or repaired in the town,
shall be inspected and approved by the Town Engineer or his or her designate
before using, and all sidewalks made new or repaired shall be done under the
supervision of the Town Engineer who shall inspect and report on the same
before the approval and acceptance by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 7-103)
§ 91.14 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Whenever in the opinion of the Town Council, any new sidewalks should
be built or old sidewalks repaired, in the town, the Council shall forthwith
give notice to the owners of the property affected and those abutting the
property or their agents.
(Ord. 927, § 1, passed 9-24-1996)
   (B)   If residents of the town, and in case the owner or agents be
nonresidents of the town, the Board shall serve the notice by sending a copy
thereof by registered letter to the owner or agent.
   (C)   If the address of the owner or agent be known, and if the owner or
agent be nonresidents and their address be unknown, or the real estate be
vacant, or unoccupied, and the residence of the owner or agent be unknown, then
a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place requiring the owner
to build or repair the same within 30 days from the date of service of the
notice.
   (D)   In case the owner shall fail to build or repair a sidewalk after the
notice has been given, then the town shall proceed to build or repair the walk
and the costs, charges and expenses thereof shall be charged against the owner
of the property and shall be collected in the same manner as assessments for
street improvements.
(1992 Code, § 7-104)
§ 91.15 DISPOSITION OF DIRT AND OLD MATERIAL.
   (A)   Whenever any sidewalk shall have been ordered built, repaired, relaid,
or replaced, the dirt removed may be used by the town in improving the street
upon which building or repairs are being made or on streets, alleys, or public
places, the grading of which is of the same general plan.
   (B)   In case the town does not so use the dirt, the property owner may
remove it together with all old material within 5 days from the completion of
the work.
   (C)   (1)   In case the property owner fails to do so, the contractor shall
proceed to remove the same and the cost thereof shall be collected as part of
the cost of the improvement.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the contractor, at all times while
building, repairing, relaying or replacing any sidewalk, to see to it that the
stakes indicating the grade of the same have not been tampered with.
(1992 Code, § 7-105)
§ 91.16 TAMPERING WITH GRADE STAKES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person or persons to tamper with
or in any way interfere with any grade stake for any sidewalk or to deface or
disturb any walk while in process of construction, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined according to the penalty provided for in this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
91.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 91.25 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   No excavation shall be made in the public rights-of-way of any street or
alley or in any easement in the town, by any person, firm, partnership, or
corporation until and unless they have complied with the terms and provisions
of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 7-112) (Ord. 659, passed 8-13-1985) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 APPLICATION AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person who desires to excavate into, under, and along a public
street or alley in the town shall first make application in writing to the Town
Council, designating in the application the purpose for which the excavation is
to be made, the size and number of excavations and other information as the
Council shall require and stating therein that all the terms and conditions of
this subchapter will be complied with, in making the excavation and the repairs
of the surfaces or pavements on the street or alley. The Council shall make
recommendations to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town accordingly.
   (B)   Upon compliance with this section, and upon the permit being approved
by the Council, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit.
   (C)   The Town Council may designate the Town Engineer as its agent and
representative, who may review and approve permit applications as the town may
receive; provided, however, that official action of the Council shall be
required in the event that it is the best interests of the town to grant a
waiver or a variance of the requirements contained herein.
(1992 Code, § 7-113) (Ord. 659, § 7-94, passed 8-13-1985) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a permit shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer under this
subchapter, any person applying for the permit shall give, execute and deliver
a surety bond to the town, in the penal sum of $5,000, to be approved by the
Clerk-Treasurer and conditioned upon the faithful performance and compliance
with all rules and regulations adopted by the town. The surety shall provide
evidence of registration with the state, the evidence constituting approval to
do business in this state.
   (B)   The bond shall also be conditioned to indemnify the town against any
loss to property or person occasioned by the excavation or repair to the street
or alley.
   (C)   Any person may furnish the bond referred to herein upon an annual
basis, and which shall be binding upon any permit subsequently issued during
the year, to the applicant.
   (D)   Any public utility operating under the jurisdiction of the Public
Service Commission of the state may give an indemnifying agreement in lieu of
the bond; provided, however, that agreement shall not relieve any contractor
doing work for the utility of the requirements of this section for bonding.
   (E)   Utilities owned and operated by the town are excepted from providing
either a bond or an indemnifying agreement.
   (F)   Any person required to furnish bond or indemnifying agreement shall
also furnish evidence of insurance for any and all claims which may arise, and
which shall cover personal injury or property damage. The amount of the
insurance shall be as established by the Town Council. The insurer shall be a
company holding a certificate of authority issued by the Indiana State
Insurance Commissioner to do business in this state.
(1992 Code, § 7-114) (Ord. 659, § 7-95, passed 8-13-1985)
§ 91.28 INSPECTION AND SAFETY OF EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations governed by this subchapter shall be inspected by the Town
Council, the Town Engineer, or their designated representative. The excavation
shall be protected by devices conforming to the requirements of the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. All excavations shall be backfilled
at the end of each working day, such that they will not pose an attractive
nuisance for children, nor in any way restrict vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
The temporary backfilling and/or stockpiling of excavated materials shall not
interfere with proper drainage of the street, alley, walk, or easement.
(1992 Code, § 7-115) (Ord. 659, § 7-96, passed 8-13-1985) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 PROTECTION OF ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   Trenches or excavations made in stuffing or water-bearing soils and trenches
and excavations 5 feet or more in depth made in the immediate vicinity of the
foundations of buildings or other foundations shall be sheeted and braced. The
person, firm, corporation, or utility making the excavation shall be
responsible for designing and installing a system of sheeting and bracing and
any damages or injuries which may result from the improper design or
construction of the sheeting and bracing system.
(1992 Code, § 7-116) (Ord. 659, § 7-97, passed 8-13-1985) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30 SURFACE RESTORATION.
   (A)   Each entity making excavations which are governed by these
regulations, shall be responsible for the timely restoration of public right-
of-way or easement surfaces, in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Pavement, driveway, or sidewalk surfaces. Each backfilled trench
shall be resurfaced with a temporary patching material, such as cold-mixed
asphaltic concrete or other similar material approved by the Town Engineer,
within 1 week after the trench has been fully backfilled. The backfilling of
trenches shall be accomplished with granular materials (or other materials
approved by the Town Engineer), which are compacted by use of vibrating
equipment or other methods which the Town Engineer may approve, in layers not
exceeding 12 inches in thickness. The permanent resurface of the trenches in
pavement or sidewalks shall be accomplished within 6 months of the date of
temporary patching, the date to be established by the Town Engineer. It is the
intent of these regulations to require that the surface replacement be at least
as good as the original surface, and that the new surface not produce any
obvious distortions in the surface, either due to texture or unequal elevation.
It shall also be continuous with adjacent surfaces and shall not change
drainage patterns or amounts from their status prior to excavating the trench.
The details of permanent surface restoration shall be in accordance with
standards prepared by the Town Engineer and adopted by the Town Council;
      (2)   Other surfaces. In areas not covered with pavement, driveway, or
sidewalk surfaces, the surface shall be restored to a condition at least equal
to, or better than, the surface condition prior to excavating the trench. The
restoration may require replacement of trees, shrubs, sod, or other plantings;
or may require restoration of fences, or may require restoration of gravel,
limestone, or slag drives; or protection, removal, replacement and/or
restoration of other personal property belonging to adjacent property owners or
found in easements. In the case of grassed areas, at a minimum, the top of the
trench shall be filled with at least 6 inches of clean, fertile, organic
topsoil. If the sod has been improved, the excavator may attempt to replant the
existing sod (if adequate precautions are taken to ensure the viability of the
original sod), or shall replace the sod with nursery sod, in accordance with
town standards and as approved by the Town Engineer. In unimproved areas, the
top of the trench shall be treated and shall be seeded with an approved seed
mixture. All details of seed bed preparation, fertilizer, lime, and mulching
shall be in accordance with town standards. Other plantings which may require
replacement, such as trees, shrubs, or bushes, shall be replaced with plant
materials which are top quality nursery stock of the same species as those
removed, and of a similar size — as nearly as may be commercially available.
However, it is the intent of these regulations to require those making
excavations to minimize damage to surfaces or adjacent personal property. This
is especially true of large trees, and bushes which are irreplaceable for
practical purposes. Affected property owners are to be given adequate advance
notification of the need to move or relocate personal property which may be in
close proximity to the planned work, but the advance notice shall in no way
relieve the permittee of the responsibility for any damages to the property
which may occur as a result of the excavation; and
      (3)   Sod/mulch. Sod or mulched seeding shall be installed in accordance
with the seasonal limitations in the current standards adopted by the Town
Council.
   (B)   The Town Engineer shall decide all questions which may arise to the
quality and acceptability of materials furnished and work performed and as to
the rate of progress of the work; all questions which may arise, to the
interpretation of the specifications; and all questions as to the acceptable
fulfillment of the permit.
(1992 Code, § 7-117) (Ord. 659, § 7-98, passed 8-13-1985)
§ 91.31 PERMIT FEES FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   Each excavation permit issued, shall require payment of a fee. This fee
shall reimburse the town for the expense of permit review, inspection of
trenches, and issuance of certification of completion. The permit fee shall be
charged in accordance with the following table.
   (A)   Utility repairs, services, extensions.
      (1)   New or replacement services.
 
Number of Services Fee
1 or 2
3 through 6        As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
7 through 12       Chapter 98
More than 12
 
      (2)   New mains, main repairs, extensions, and the like.
 
Length of Trench     Fee
Up to 100 feet
100 feet to 250 feet As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
250 feet to 750 feet Chapter 98
Over 750 feet
 
   (B)   Other excavations.
 
Size                  Fee
Up to 50 cubic yards  As set forth in the Fee Schedule,
50 to 333 cubic yards Chapter 98
Over 333 cubic yards
 
(1992 Code, § 7-118) (Ord. 659, § 7-99, passed 8-13-1985)
§ 91.32 EMERGENCIES; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   In case of emergencies, the person, firm, corporation, or utility
making an excavation which is governed by this subchapter shall be required to
submit a permit application on the first day that the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office is open, following the day when the excavation was made. The permit,
when issued, shall be retroactive to the date the excavation was started.
   (B)   Any permit granted under the terms of this subchapter shall become
void if the excavation is not started within 90 calendar days of the date the
permit was issued.
   (C)   Any excavation which has not been restored and certified by the Town
Engineer as completed, within 9 months of the date of permit issuance, shall
cause the permittee to be in violation of this subchapter and subject to the
penalties herein described.
(1992 Code, § 7-120) (Ord. 659, § 7-101, passed 8-13-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)
TREE LAWN REGULATIONS
§ 91.40 TREE LAWN APPLICATION.
   Any person or firm that desires to plant and/or remove any tree(s) from the
“tree lawn” area within the town limits shall first make application with the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office, designating what work is to be performed and that any
and all damage to sidewalks and/or streets, curbs or pavements will be repaired
or replaced in a manner to be approved by the Town Council or its designated
representative and at the homeowner’s expense.
(1992 Code, § 4-60) (Ord. 776, § 1, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 91.41 HOMEOWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any and all expenses involved in the planting and/or removing of trees from
the tree lawn shall be at the homeowner’s expense. Maintenance of trees in the
tree lawn and any liability caused by trees in the tree lawn which are involved
in accidents or cause damages to persons or property are the homeowner’s
responsibility.
(1992 Code, § 4-61) (Ord. 776, § 2, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 91.42 TRIMMING TREES.
   Trees or shrubs on private property or in easements belonging to the town
that are in need of trimming due to interference with vehicular traffic or
utility lines or for public improvement shall be trimmed at the town’s expense.
(1992 Code, § 4-62) (Ord. 776, § 3, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF TREES.
   Any removal or trimming of trees or shrubs on private property or in
easements of the town which is done for any other reason shall be at the
homeowner’s expense.
(1992 Code, § 4-63) (Ord. 776, § 4, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 91.44 PARK BOARD EXEMPT.
   The Park Board of the town shall be able to plant or remove any trees or
vegetation under its jurisdiction with the permission of the Town Council or
Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 4-64) (Ord. 776, § 5, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 91.45 PERMIT AND BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before a permit shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer under this
subchapter to any person or firm applying for a permit, the person or firm
shall give, execute, and deliver a surety bond or proof of homeowner’s
insurance to the town in the penal sum of $5,000, to be approved by the Clerk-
Treasurer and conditioned upon the faithful performance and compliance with all
the rules and regulations adopted by the town. The surety bond shall provide
evidence of registration with the state, the evidence constituting approval to
do business in the state.
   (B)   The bond shall also be conditioned to indemnify the town against any
loss to property or person. The requirement for a surety bond may be waived at
the discretion of the Town Council.
   (C)   Any person or firm may furnish the bond referred to herein upon an
annual basis, and which shall be binding upon any permit subsequently issued
during the year to the applicant.
   (D)   Any public utility operating under the jurisdiction of the Public
Service Commission of the state, having an indemnifying agreement shall not
relieve any contractor doing work for the utility of the requirements for
bonding.
   (E)   Any person or firm required to furnish bond or indemnifying agreement
shall also furnish evidence of insurance for any and all claims which may
arise, and which shall cover personal injury or property damage. The amount of
the insurance shall be established by the Town Council. The insurer shall be a
company holding a certificate of authority issued by the Indiana State
Insurance Commissioner to do business in the state.
(Ord. 776, § 6, passed 11-13-1990)
   (F)   The cost of obtaining a permit to remove a tree or trees within the
tree lawn or any other right-of-way area within the town limits shall be
pursuant to the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. The permit shall be valid for 90 days from the date of issue.
(Ord. 798, passed 4-9-1991)
(1992 Code, § 4-65)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
91.10 through
91.16 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 7-107)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
91.25 through
91.32 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 7-119)
   (D)   Any person or company who does not obtain the required permit from the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office for tree removal in §
91.45 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(A).
(1992 Code, § 4-65)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Cleaning ice and snow off sidewalks
   
92.02   Deposit of snow or ice on streets, sidewalks or other public property
Liquified Petroleum Gas
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Standards for equipment and installation
   
92.17   Permits required
   
92.18   Record of installation
   
92.19   Inspection
   
92.20   Regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 CLEANING ICE AND SNOW OFF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The occupant of occupied premises and the owner of unoccupied premises
situated in the town are required to keep the sidewalks in front of or adjacent
to the premises so occupied by occupants, or in front of or adjacent to the
unoccupied premises so owned by the owners, free from snow and ice.
   (B)   The word OCCUPANT means the person, persons, firm, association, or
corporation occupying for business, residential, or other purposes the first
floor of any building situated on the premises so occupied, and if the first
floor of any building is not occupied, then the premises owner or occupant
shall be required to keep the sidewalks in front of or adjacent to the premises
free from snow and ice.
   (C)   Snow and ice shall be removed from sidewalks by the owner or occupant
of the premises within 24 hours after its accumulation, except that such
removal is not required during any snow emergency or snow condition declared by
the town but such removal shall be accomplished within 48 hours after the
termination of such snow emergency or condition.
   (D)   If any owner or occupant does not remove snow and ice as required, the
Street Superintendent is authorized to remove or cause to be removed the snow
and ice, and report in writing the necessary expense incident thereto to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town, who shall certify the amount for enforcement of
such fines, penalties and expenses as the town has incurred under the
provisions of this Code and Indiana law.
   (E)   Snow and ice on ADA compliant sidewalks and paths shall be cleared to
such widths as to allow travel by those with disabilities.
   (F)   No person shall operate snow removal equipment on any public sidewalk
within the town which has a power rating of greater than 75 horsepower.
(1992 Code, § 6-20) (Am. Ord. 1290, passed 6-24-2014)
§ 92.02 DEPOSIT OF SNOW OR ICE ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall plow, shovel or blow any snow or ice from private
property onto any highway, public street or thoroughfare, crosswalk, school bus
stop, public parking lot or any public property, except that snow or ice
removed from a sidewalk may be placed on the tree lawn adjacent to such
sidewalk.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent is authorized to remove any snow or ice
which has been placed by any person on public property and report in writing
the necessary expense incident thereto to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, who
shall certify the amount, with a description of the lot or parcel of ground,
and with the owner or owner's name or names and the name and address of the
person violating this section for such action as the Town Council authorizes to
collect such expense in addition to any fines levied under this chapter.
(Ord. 1290, passed 6-24-2014)
LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCES. Embraces all gas-burning appliances intended for use with
liquified petroleum.
   LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS. Any material which is composed predominantly of any
of the following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of them: propane, propylene, butanes
(normal butane or isobutane), and butylenes.
(1992 Code, § 6-53)
§ 92.16 STANDARDS FOR EQUIPMENT AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All installations of liquified petroleum gas equipment shall be in
conformity with the applicable provisions of this code, with the statutes of
the state, and with any orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority
thereof, and with generally recognized standards for safety to persons and
property.
   (B)   Where no specific standards are prescribed by this code or by the
statutes of the state, or by any orders, rules, or regulations issued by
authority thereof, conformity with the Standards of the National Fire
Protection Association for the Storage and Handling of Liquified Petroleum
Gases (NFPA No. 58) and with the Recommended Good Practice Rules for Liquified
Petroleum Gas Piping and Appliance Installations in Buildings, as recommended
by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA No. 52) as may be amended
from time to time. Two copies of the standards are on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 6-54) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person installing liquified petroleum gas equipment, other than
gas-burning appliances and replacing of portable cylinders, for industrial or
commercial use, shall first obtain a permit from the Fire Chief of the Fire
Department before proceeding with the installation.
   (B)   No fee shall be charged for the permit.
   (C)   No bulk plants shall be established within the town unless the
proposed installation has first been inspected and approved and a permit issued
by the Fire Chief and the owner or owners thereof have complied with all of the
town ordinances, state laws, and all orders, rules, or regulations issued by
authority thereof.
(1992 Code, § 6-55) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 RECORD OF INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Every person installing liquified petroleum gas equipment, other than
gas-burning appliances and replacing of portable cylinders, in the town, shall
keep a record of each installation, showing the name and address of the
customer at whose place the liquified petroleum gas equipment has been
installed and the date of the installation.
   (B)   Records shall be maintained and made available to the Fire Chief at
any time, upon his or her request during regular business hours.
(1992 Code, § 6-56) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 INSPECTION.
   Except as otherwise required, the Fire Chief shall inspect installations of
liquified petroleum gas equipment.
(1992 Code, § 6-57)
§ 92.20 REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the foregoing provisions, plants devoted to filling liquified
petroleum gas containers shall comply with the following requirements, except
office buildings and other buildings or structures on the same property which
are not used for filling containers or other similar operations.
   (A)   In no case shall any plant storage tank be located closer than 50 feet
from any building not physically connected with the plant or to any line of
adjoining property which may be built upon.
   (B)   Artificial lighting shall be restricted to electricity. In buildings
or portions of buildings containing liquified petroleum gas storage containers,
and in buildings or portions of buildings where cylinders to tank trucks are
filled, all electrical equipment for light and power shall be in compliance
with the requirements of the National Electrical Code for Class 1, Group D,
Hazardous Locations. Heating shall be by steam, hot water, or hot air with
heating units located in a separate building provided for this purpose, or in a
separate room cut off from all other portions of the building by vapor-tight,
fire resistant walls and with the entrance from the outside.
   (C)   Tank trucks used in the distribution of liquified petroleum gas shall
conform to provisions set out in §
92.16.
(1992 Code, § 6-58) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
92.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, and each day that any snow and ice shall be allowed to remain upon
any sidewalk in violation of the provisions of §
92.01 shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation.
(1992 Code, § 6-20)
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or entity who shall violate any
provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.20 and who, after notice from the Fire Chief, shall fail to correct any
incorrect installations within 20 days after receiving the notice, shall be
ticketed and fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98; provided, however, that if the fine is not paid within the allotted
time, it shall be increased as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 6-59) (Ord. 976, § 1, passed 4-14-1998)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Conditions constituting public nuisances
   
93.02   Citations
   
93.03   Notice prior to abatement by town
   
93.04   Failure to comply with notice to abate
   
93.05   Abatement by the town
   
93.06   Appeals
   
93.07   Storage of building materials
Noise Control Regulations
   
93.25   Loud and raucous noise prohibited
   
93.26   Acts prohibited; variation in times
   
93.27   Responsible organizations; permit required
Abandoned and Junk Vehicles
   
93.40   Definitions
   
93.41   Scope of coverage; exclusions; permits
   
93.42   Enforcement
Yard Waste Regulations
   
93.50   Yard waste defined
   
93.51   Burning of yard waste prohibited
   
93.52   Yard waste regulations
   
93.53   Weekly yard waste pick-up
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Garbage, trash, and junk, see
Ch. 97
   Weeds, see
Ch. 97
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
Indiana as public nuisances may, when found to exist within the town limits, be
treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this chapter, or in
accordance with any other provisions of law. Wherever the word NUISANCE is used
in this chapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any real or personal property within the town, or any agent
thereof, shall permit or allow to remain on or within the property or upon
public ways abutting the real property any materials, trash, garbage, debris,
or any other matter which is detrimental to public health, comfort, safety, or
to the esthetic well-being of the community.
   (C)   The following conditions shall be considered to constitute public
nuisances for the purpose of this section:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Fallen tree stumps, dead trees, cut brush, fallen or cut limbs;
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, household items, and tires;
      (4)   Demolition remains;
      (5)   Open excavations uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within
the town;
      (6)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
      (7)   Automobile parts, disassembled automobiles, automobiles without
engines, plumbing and piping material and parts, scrap metal, unseaworthy or
dilapidated boats, dilapidated, deteriorated, or non-operable jet skies,
snowmobile, motorcycles, bicycles, trailers, or mopeds, or abandoned and junked
vehicles in violation of §§
93.40 through
93.42;
      (8)   Structures defaced with paint or wording;
      (9)   Any portion of real property or any personal property which admits
an unwholesome odor;
      (10)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste or
human excrement which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any public or
private property;
      (11)   Any water or any other substance which is caused or permitted to
flow onto or to be deposited upon any public property or public way except
natural surface water drainage;
      (12)   Any dead animal or animal parts;
      (13)   Erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect and/or pool
upon any public property;
      (14)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease or likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
      (15)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of the same, of any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, domestic or wild animals in a manner as to create a
health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (16)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation or for sleeping that is maintained in such a way to be dangerous or
detrimental to life or health due to lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heat, electricity, plumbing, ventilation, or garbage and trash removal;
      (17)   The storage of any explosive, combustible, or other material which
creates a safety or health hazard;
      (18)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, or other matter obstructing public
ways or causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian
safety hazards;
      (19)   Trash or garbage containers left upon the sidewalk, the area
between a street and a sidewalk, or the front or side yard, except as permitted
by town trash and garbage collection purposes;
      (20)   Building materials stored on any lot in violation of any section
of this chapter; and/or
      (21)   Any furniture not originally designed or manufactured solely for
outdoor use; or any furniture which was originally designed or manufactured for
outdoor use, which is now dilapidated or deteriorated.
(Ord. 1144, passed 8-9-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 CITATIONS.
   When a public nuisance is found to exist in violation of this chapter, after
all persons known to have a substantial interest in the property have been
given reasonable opportunity to bring property into compliance and have not
done so, the Town Council or its designee may request that the Town Marshal or
Building Commissioner issue a town ordinance violation citation to the record
owner of the property or to the person shown to have right of exclusive
possession of the property. The citation shall impose a fine in conformance
with §
93.99 below. Each subsequent day a violation continues shall be considered a
separate violation for which a citation may be issued.
(Ord. 1144, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 93.03 NOTICE PRIOR TO ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   The Building Commissioner or Town Marshal or his or her designee shall give
72 hours’ notice in writing to remove from any real or personal property within
the town any object or condition which is deemed to be a public nuisance under
§
93.01. The notice shall be given to the owner of record or his or her agent,
and to any tenant or occupant of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
Notice to the record owner may be mailed to his or her last known address.
Notice to any tenants or occupant may be given by posting the same in a
prominent place upon the premises where the nuisance is located.
(Ord. 1144, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 93.04 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Failure, neglect, or refusal by the record owner or his or her agent, or the
tenant or occupant, to comply with the terms of the notice given pursuant to §
93.03 shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each day’s violation,
neglect or refusal to abate the nuisance following notice pursuant to §
93.03 shall constitute a separate offense under this section.
(Ord. 1144, passed 8-9-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ABATEMENT BY THE TOWN.
   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any party to whom notice to abate a
nuisance has been given under §
93.03, or whenever a nuisance exists which creates a health or safety hazard
requiring immediate abatement in order to protect public health or safety, the
Town Council or its designee may abate the nuisance, keeping accurate accounts
of all costs, and bill them to the record owner or to the person shown to have
the right of exclusive possession of the property. Appropriate legal action may
be taken to collect the costs if they remain unpaid for 45 days after the
billing date. Unpaid costs may be made a lien against the property.
(Ord. 1144, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 93.06 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any appeal of either the removal notice or the bill must be made in
writing within 10 days of the date of the document being appealed. The appeal
must be in writing and must be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. If a written
appeal is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer, the matter shall be scheduled for
hearing before the Town Council and a hearing shall be held pursuant to I.C.
36-7-9. The hearing authority’s order regarding this appeal is considered final
from the date of its issuance and is subject to judicial review pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 46-7-9-8.
   (B)   If the owner fails to pay a bill issued pursuant to this section
within the time specified in the bill, or within the time specified in the
order if an appeal of the bill is made, the Town Council shall certify to the
Auditor of St. Joseph County the amount of the bill, plus any additional
administrative costs incurred in the certification. The Auditor of St. Joseph
County shall then place the entire amount certified on the tax duplicate for
the property affected, and the total amount, including any accrued interest,
shall, upon collection, be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 1144, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 93.07 STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   Building materials and equipment may be placed or stored on lots zoned as
residential or commercial only during the process of building on the lot or for
a period of no longer than 1 month prior to a commencement of building and not
longer than 10 days after the completion of building on the lot.
(Ord. 1144, passed 8-9-2005)
NOISE CONTROL REGULATIONS
§ 93.25 LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE PROHIBITED.
   The making of or continuing, causing, or aiding to be made or continued any
loud, unnecessary, or unusual noises whatsoever which annoy, injure, or
endanger the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others, unless the making or
continuing of the noises is necessary for the protection of property or the
health or safety of life or limb of some person, is declared to be unlawful and
a public nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 6-26) (Ord. 974, § 1, passed 4-14-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Town authorized to regulate any generation of sound, see I.C. 36-8-2-8
§ 93.26 ACTS PROHIBITED; VARIATION IN TIMES.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, raucous, or
disturbing noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Using, operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound in a manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet, and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder
volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the
room, vehicle, or chamber in which the machine or device is operated and who is
a voluntary listener. The operation of any set, instrument, phonograph,
machine, or device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in a manner as
to be clearly audible at a distance of 50 feet from building, structure, or
vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section;
(Ord. 974, § 1, passed 4-14-1998)
   (B)   However, the Town Council may, upon its discretion and a majority vote
of its members, grant a variation in time limits to specific individuals or
recognized organizations;
(Ord. 738, passed 7-25-1989)
   (C)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (D)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, truck, or other vehicle so
loaded, or in a manner as to create loud and unnecessary engine noise in excess
of the noise limit measured in decibels as prescribed by state standards. The
noise limit applied to total noise from a motor vehicle or motorcycle including
that noise of other vehicles attached thereto;
   (E)   The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any
internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes loud and raucous
noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from
the blower or fan is muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device
sufficient to deaden the noise;
(Ord. 574, § 1(b), passed - -1981)
   (F)   The sounding of any horn, signal device, or attachments on
automobiles, motorcycles, bicycles, truck, bus, or other vehicle except as a
necessary warning of danger to person or property; and
   (G)   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which by causing frequent or
continued noises or odor, shall disturb the comfort or repose of persons in any
dwelling or apartment house or residence.
(1992 Code, § 6-27) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 RESPONSIBLE ORGANIZATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon application to the Town Council a permit may be issued to any
responsible person or organization to broadcast programs of music, speeches, or
other general entertainment as part of and conjunction with any civic
enterprise or celebration of a noncommercial character or to use a sound truck
or public address system.
   (B)   The Police Department may use a sound truck or public address system
upon the streets and public places for the purpose of directing or educating
all vehicular traffic upon the streets and public places.
(1992 Code, § 6-28)
ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 93.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle left on public property illegally or in
a manner as to constitute a hazard to foot or vehicular traffic; a vehicle from
which the engine, transmission, or differential has been removed or that is
otherwise partially dismantled and left on public property; any vehicle at
least 3 model years old, mechanically inoperable and left continuously on
private property for 20 days in a location visible from public property.
   GARAGE. A structure having a roof supported by walls, and for the shelter,
enclosure, or protection of vehicles or other personal property. One wall of a
GARAGE may be composed primarily of a large door.
   JUNKED OR WRECKED AUTOMOBILES. Any motor vehicle, part or parts thereof
which meets at least 1 of the following qualifications:
      (1)   Does not display a current, valid state license plate;
      (2)   Cannot be operated safely under its own power;
      (3)   Is qualified for but is not carried on the most recent tax
assessment records of the county;
      (4)   Does not have equipment upon it which is in good working order and
adjustment as required by the laws of the state; and/or
      (5)   As to a part or parts of any motor vehicle which is not kept inside
of a garage or other structure as defined herein.
   OTHER STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
a more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to
something permanently located on the ground.
   PUBLIC VIEW. Vehicles left in the open, including those that are covered
with any type of material. Vehicles stored, parked, or kept in a garage or
other structure shall not be considered in PUBLIC VIEW if a garage or other
structure or similar door remains open for more than 24 hours. PUBLIC VIEW
shall not be determined merely based on whether or not the vehicle may be seen
from public property.
   VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power.
(1992 Code, § 6-32) (Ord. 951, § 1, passed 11-26-1997)
§ 93.41 SCOPE OF COVERAGE; EXCLUSIONS; PERMITS.
   (A)   Any vehicle shall be deemed to be wrecked, junked, or abandoned if the
vehicle does not have attached thereto a valid and current license plate;
provided, however, that the existence of a valid and current license plate
shall not be the sole determining factor. Any vehicle kept for the purpose of
selling parts therefrom shall be deemed to be included in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any vehicle kept continuously without being moved on public property
for 7 days and on private property for 20 days shall be subject to this
subchapter.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, firm, or
corporation lawfully engaged in the junk business, garage, body shop, or other
vehicle repair business; provided, however, that the business must be conducted
in a properly zoned area and must have all necessary licenses current,
including but not limited to salvage licenses.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation not engaged in a lawful business
excluded under division (B) above, and owning or having on their property a
wrecked, junked, or abandoned vehicle for the purpose of being repaired or
providing parts for another vehicle, may obtain a permit for that purpose from
the Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed 30
days and shall not be renewable. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit upon
the payment of a fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. The permit shall be displayed on the windshield of the vehicle for
which it was issued and shall not be transferable.
(1992 Code, § 6-33) (Ord. 951, § 2, passed 11-25-1997)
§ 93.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, any deputies or code enforcement officers are hereby
authorized to issue a written demand to the owner, occupant, agent, or person
in possession of the premises on which any wrecked, junked, or abandoned
vehicle is kept in violation of this subchapter. The demand shall notify the
person to remove the vehicle from the premises within 72 hours.
   (B)   Upon the failure or refusal of the person to remove the vehicle within
the time specified, the Town Marshal or deputies shall impound the vehicle and
cause it to be removed by a licensed towing agency and stored in a place
affording protection from vandalism or other damage.
   (C)   The owner shall have 30 days in which to reclaim the vehicle by paying
the actual expenses of removal and storage plus any fines levied under this
subchapter. If not reclaimed within that time, the vehicle shall either be sold
for junk or at public auction. Any money received over the actual expenses and
fines shall be returned to the owner.
   (D)   The powers given to the Town Marshal and deputies are intended in no
way to abridge or void any existing authority given to any other department,
group, or agency of the town.
   (E)   The Town Marshal or deputies may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure, or premises in the town in order to perform the duties
imposed by this code.
(1992 Code, § 6-34)
YARD WASTE REGULATIONS
§ 93.50 YARD WASTE DEFINED.
   Definition of yard waste is:
   (A)   Leaves;
   (B)   Grass clippings; and/or
   (C)   Tree branches.
(1992 Code, § 6-95) (Ord. 886, § 1, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 93.51 BURNING OF YARD WASTE PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no burning of yard waste within the town limits.
(1992 Code, § 6-96) (Ord. 886, § 2, passed 8-23-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.52 YARD WASTE REGULATIONS.
   All leaves are to be deposited loose at curbside, grass clippings are to be
deposited at curbside bagged, and tree branches are to be deposited at
curbside, loose, by the property owners and/or responsible parties.
(1992 Code, § 6-97) (Ord. 889, § 3, passed 9-27-1994)
§ 93.53 WEEKLY YARD WASTE PICK-UP.
   Yard waste pick-up shall be 1 time per week.
(1992 Code, § 6-98) (Ord. 886, § 4, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating a provision of §§
93.01 through
93.07 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or entity violating the provisions of
§§
93.25 through
93.27 may be ticketed and fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 6-29) (Ord. 974, § 1, passed 4-14-1998)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
93.40 through
93.42 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 6-34)
   (E)   Penalty for violating §§
93.50 through
93.53 shall be as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 6-99) (Ord. 886, § 6, passed 8-23-1994)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   General animal care requirements
   
94.03   Sale of animals as novelties or use as prize prohibited; exceptions
   
94.04   Motor vehicle accidents involving animals
   
94.05   Animals in motor vehicles
   
94.06   Poisoning of animals
   
94.07   Trapping of animals restricted
   
94.08   Maximum number of dogs or cats
   
94.09   Acreage requirements for certain domestic animals; prohibition of swine
   
94.10   Owners or agents responsible for removing animal wastes and dead
animals
   
94.11   Animal bites
   
94.12   Vaccination of dogs and cats required
   
94.13   Interference with Animal Control Officer prohibited
   
94.14   Exclusion of service dogs prohibited
   
94.15   Confinement by other than town officials; notice required
   
94.16   Breaking into animal shelter prohibited
   
94.17   Dangerous and poisonous animals prohibited
   
94.18   Impoundment procedures
   
94.19   Protected animals
   
94.20   Keeping certain animals prohibited
   
94.21   Seizure of certain animals
   
94.22   Serious injury or death
Registration; Licensing
   
94.30   Performing animal license
   
94.31   Pet registration
   
94.32   Pet shop permit
   
94.33   Dangerous animal/attack dog permit
   
94.34   Permit exemptions
   
94.35   Issuance of permits (additional requirements)
   
94.36   Fees
   
94.37   Registration/permit revocation
   
94.38   Inspection
   
94.39   Computation of time
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To deposit, leave, drop off, or otherwise dispose of any live
animal on public or private property without providing the requisite care
prescribed under §
94.02.
   A.D.B.A. American Dog Breeders Association.
   AGENT. Any person 18 years or older who is authorized by the animal’s owner
to act on the owner’s behalf with respect to his or her animal(s).
   A.K.C. American Kennel Club.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any live, nonhuman, vertebrate, or invertebrate creature that is
domestic, wild, or exotic.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any governmental or private entity charged with or
contracted with and given authority for the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter for and on behalf of the town.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A person authorized to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
   ANIMAL PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS. Any spectacle, performance, display,
act, exhibition, or event in which an animal or animals are used.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility or vehicle operated by a governmental or private
entity for the temporary care, confinement, detention, and humane treatment of
animals.
   AT LARGE. An animal that is:
      (1)   Not on a leash and is off the property of its owner, its owner’s
agent, or its keeper;
      (2)   On a leash that does not adequately confine the animal to the
property of its owner, its owner’s agent, or its keeper; or
      (3)   On a leash that is not otherwise under the immediate control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded by means of auction sale, except for those facilities otherwise defined
in this chapter or state law.
   BITE. To seize, tear, wound, or cut with the teeth, resulting in a break in
the skin.
   BREEDER. Any person or for-profit business or corporation, which harbors or
keeps dogs or cats, and allows or causes those animals to procreate, for the
purpose of selling the offspring.
   CIRCUS. Any performances, which are given for a fee, by traveling companies
on vacant lots, using tents, or some other kind of temporary enclosure, for
sheltering the public. CIRCUSES are also subject to the licensing provisions
set forth in §§
94.30 and
94.35.
   CONTROLLED ANIMAL. Any animal not defined as a domestic animal in this
chapter, with the exception of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious
animals, nonpoisonous reptilian animals, small cage birds, and psittacine, and
whose possession requires a valid town controlled animal permit. CONTROLLED
ANIMALS shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees (Pan), gibbons (Hylobates), gorillas (Gorilla),
orangutans (Pongo) and siamangs (Symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboons (Papio, Mandrillus);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (Bison);
      (6)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (7)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia);
      (8)   Constrictor snakes, such as boa, python, and anaconda;
      (9)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
      (10)   Deer (Cervidae), including all members of the deer family, such as
white-tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (11)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta);
      (12)   Gamecocks and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (14)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (15)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);
      (16)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
      (17)   Lions (Panthera leo);
      (18)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (19)   Monkeys;
      (20)   Ostriches (Struthio);
      (21)   Piranha fish (Characidae);
      (22)   Pumas (Felis concolor), also known as cougars, mountain lions, and
panthers;
      (23)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocerotidae);
      (24)   Sharks (class Chondrichthyes);
      (25)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia);
      (26)   Spiders and insects which are poisonous;
      (27)   Tigers (Panthera tigris); or
      (27)   Wolves (Canis lupus).
   CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
      (1)   (a)   Not having a contractual interest in the property, knowingly
or intentionally entering the real property of another person after having been
denied entry by the other person or his or her agent;
         (b)   Not having a contractual interest in the property, knowingly or
intentionally refusing to leave the real property of another person after
having been asked to leave by the other person or his or her agent;
         (c)   Accompanying another person in a vehicle, with knowledge that
the other person knowingly or intentionally is exerting unauthorized control
over the other vehicle;
         (d)   Knowingly or intentionally interfering with the possession or
use of the property of another person without his or her consent; or
         (e)   Not having a contractual interest in the property, knowingly or
intentionally entering the dwelling of another person without his or her
consent.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, a person has been denied entry if the
denial was by means of personal communication, oral or written, or by putting
or exhibiting a notice at the main entrance in a manner that is either
prescribed by law or likely to come to the attention of the public.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which:
         (a)   Has attacked or bitten another animal while off the property of
its owner, its owner’s agent, or its keeper;
         (b)   Has attacked, attempted to attack, bitten, or seriously injured
any human being, without provocation, whether on or off the property of its
owner, its owner’s agent, or its keeper;
         (c)   Has a history, documented with a public agency or its designee,
of attacking or biting any humans or domestic animals;
         (d)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to
cause injury or to otherwise threaten or endanger the safety of humans or
domestic animals; or
         (e)   Has been found to be at large and has been documented to be at
large by an Animal Control Officer on 3 or more separate occasions in a 12-
month period.
      (2)   No animal shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if the animal
causes injury or damage to a person while that person is:
         (a)   Committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense against
the owner or agent of the owner;
         (b)   Committing a criminal trespass upon the premises occupied by the
owner, agent, or keeper of the animal; or
         (c)   Teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal.
      (3)   No K-9 patrol dogs or law enforcement dogs owned or kept by a law
enforcement agency shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL when used in the line
of duty or for law enforcement purposes.
   DESIGNEE. A person, organization, or entity selected, appointed, or
nominated for a particular purpose or duty.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is a member of 1 of the following species:
      (1)   Dog (Canis familiaris);
      (2)   Cat (Felis cattus or Felis domesticus);
      (3)   Cattle (Bos domesticus, Bos taurus, or Bos indicus);
      (4)   Horse (Equus caballus);
      (4)   Donkey (Equus asinus);
      (5)   Sheep (Ovis aries);
      (6)   Goat (Capra hircus);
      (7)   Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus);
      (8)   Mouse (Mus musculus);
      (9)   Rat (Rattus);
      (10)   Guinea pig (Cavis procellus);
      (11)   Hamster (Mesocricetus auratus);
      (12)   Gerbil (Gerbillus);
      (13)   Cow or ox (bovine);
      (14)   Pigeon, homing or racing;
      (15)   Chicken, turkey, goose, duck;
      (16)   Swine;
      (17)   Chinchillas;
      (18)   Mink;
      (19)   Ferrets;
      (20)   Bisons;
      (21)   Llamas; and
      (22)   All other animals defined in state law.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii. This definition
does not include fish, fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier
trade, and birds protected under federal laws and regulations.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or nonhuman, warm-blooded mammal that has been
bitten or exposed to any other animal known or reasonably suspected to have
been infected with rabies.
   FIGHT. A conflict between 2 or more animals that is intentionally organized
for that purpose.
   FOWL. Any kind of wild or domestic bird, excluding homing or racing pigeons,
canaries, parrots, or similar types of birds normally kept in cages.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit an animal habitually to
remain, to be lodged or to be fed within one’s home, store, enclosure, yard, or
place of business or any premises on which the person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for 3 consecutive
days or more.
   HUMANE OFFICER. Any person or agency designated by the state or the town as
a person who is qualified to perform the duties required by the law of this
town and state regarding animals.
   K-9 PATROL DOGS OR LAW ENFORCEMENT DOGS. A professionally trained dog used
by law enforcement officers for law enforcement purposes and activities.
   KEEPER. Any person, other than the owner, who has actual or constructive
possession of an animal for the purpose of managing, controlling, or caring for
the animal. A person shall be construed as a KEEPER of an animal even if he or
she does not have the owner’s permission.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting, or keeping more than 3 dogs for the purpose of hire,
training for a fee, or selling.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, rope, strap, or other physical restraint.
   MICROCHIP. A tiny computer chip, implanted underneath the skin of an animal
that contains identification information relating to that animal.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal, designed to
fasten over the mouth of an animal, without interfering with its vision or
respiration or causing injury to the animal, to prevent the animal from biting
any person or other animal.
   NIP. To pinch or squeeze with the teeth without breaking the skin or
damaging any tissue.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. A business, association, or entity established or organized
as a NOT-FOR-PROFIT corporation under state law or recognized as NOT-FOR-PROFIT
by the Internal Revenue Service or the State Department of Revenue. FOR-PROFIT
means all other types of businesses, associations, or entities.
   OFF PROPERTY. Beyond the legal boundaries of the real property on which the
owner, agent, or keeper resides.
   OWNER. Any person 18 years of age or older having temporary or permanent
custody of, sheltering or having charge of, harboring, exercising control over,
or having property rights to, any animal covered by this chapter.
   PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION. Any spectacle, display, act, or exhibit or
event other than a circus, in which performing animals are used.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons, partnership, or corporation, whether
operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise, which
sells or barters animals.
   PROVOKED. To deliberately arouse, incite, or excite.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal that endangers the life or health of persons or
other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other
than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term PUBLIC NUISANCE
ANIMAL shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any animal found running at large;
      (2)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation molests, attacks, or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of-way;
      (3)   Any animal that chases or interferes with motor vehicles in a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   Any animal that attacks other animals;
      (5)   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles, or defecates on any
property other than that of its owner;
      (6)   Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including but not limited
to continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances
causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (7)   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (8)   Any animal in heat that is not confined or restrained so as to
prevent attraction or contact with other animals;
      (9)   Any animal in any section of a public park, playground, schoolyard,
or other recreational area that is found running at large;
      (10)   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (11)   Any animal that trespasses on the private property of persons
other than the owner of the animal; or
      (12)   Any animal determined to be a dangerous animal.
   RABIES VACCINATION. An injection, licensed by the U.S.D.A. and approved by
the Indiana State Board of Health, given to a dog, cat, or other animal by a
licensed veterinarian to prevent the spread of rabies.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or lead, or confining it
within the real property limits of its owner or agent.
   RIDING SCHOOL or STABLE. Any place that provides, for a fee, boarding and/or
riding instruction for a horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro.
   RODEO. A performance featuring bronco riding, steer wrestling, calf roping,
greased pig contest, or bull riding.
   SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH.
      (1)   Any bodily injury, which is caused by an animal and is medically
documented, that:
         (a)   Creates a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Causes serious permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, or
extreme pain; or
         (c)   Results in a permanent or protracted loss or impairment of a
bodily member organ.
      (2)   This definition shall not includes any nip from an animal.
   SERVICE DOGS. Any dog that is trained to assist a disabled person.
   STRAY. Any animal that is not under restraint and/or upon reasonable inquiry
by an Animal Control Officer does not appear to have an owner.
   U.K.C. United Kennel Club.
   UNCONFINED DANGEROUS ANIMAL. A dangerous animal which is not securely
confined indoors, not under restraint, or not confined in a securely enclosed
and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the owner, agent, or keeper of
the animal.
   UNPROVOKED. Without incitement or stimulation.
   U.S.D.A. United States Department of Agriculture.
   VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed and accredited to practice veterinary
medicine in the state.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not a domestic or exotic animal, with the exception
of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage birds,
which are normally found in the wild state.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 94.02 GENERAL ANIMAL CARE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner or his or her agent residing within the corporate limits of the
town shall see that each of his or her animals:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal;
   (C)   Lives in a structure, meeting minimum veterinary standards, which will
protect that animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that
animal, to stand, sit, and lie down without restriction, and which is kept in a
sanitary manner;
   (D)   If ill, diseased, or injured, receives proper veterinary care as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal
of a disease to other animals or human beings;
   (E)   Is not beaten, ill-treated, overloaded, overworked, tormented, or
otherwise abused or neglected, or involved in any dog fight, cockfight,
bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and humans;
   (F)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian, except for tattooing for identification purposes and grooming;
   (G)   Is not abandoned, neglected, or tortured;
   (H)   Does not become a public nuisance;
   (I)   Does not become a dangerous animal;
   (J)   In the case of a dog or cat over the age of 3 months, is properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually, or upon the
frequency as may be specified by state law, and the animals shall be licensed
as required by this chapter and state law;
   (K)   Is properly restrained and not at large; and
   (L)   During mating season, is kept in a secure enclosure in a manner that
it cannot come into contact with another animal of the same species, except for
planned breeding.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 SALE OF ANIMALS AS NOVELTIES OR USE AS PRIZE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Sale of animals as novelties or use as prize is prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall display, sell, offer for sale, barter, or give away
any animal, reptile, fish, or bird as a novelty or as an advertising device.
      (2)   No rabbit, chick, gosling, duckling, turkey, or other fowl may be
dyed or otherwise colored artificially, nor shall any dyed or artificially
colored rabbits, chicks, goslings, ducklings, turkeys, or other fowl be sold,
offered for sale, displayed, used as barter, or given away.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale or display of
natural chicks, ducklings, goslings, turkeys, or other domestic fowl in proper
brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling
them to be raised for commercial purposes. Nor shall this section prohibit a
pet shop holding a valid permit under this chapter, or a legitimate humane
society or animal shelter, from humanely caring for, adopting out, or selling
animals as pets.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle who knowingly hits, runs over, or
causes injury to an animal shall immediately notify the Marshal’s Department.
The notice shall include the motorist’s name, address, phone number, type of
animal hit, and the location of the animal.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 ANIMALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left in a motor vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to that animal, or when the weather
would constitute a health hazard to the animal confined in the motor vehicle;
nor shall any person transport any animal in an unenclosed truck bed or open
section of any vehicle unless the animal is enclosed in a cage which is
securely fastened to the vehicle.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, dispose or place any poisonous substance on
any public or private property within the corporate limits of the town, if a
domestic animal is reasonably likely to consume the substance.
   (B)   A person shall not be liable under division (A) above for leaving
common rat or mouse poisons or insecticides, in any form, on his or her
property if the person exercises reasonable care in restricting a domestic
animal’s access to the poisons so that only the targeted rodents or insects are
exposed to the poisons.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 TRAPPING OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall trap animals or fowl within the town limits, unless the trap
(s) are approved by an animal care facility and used for the control of
nuisance animals. This prohibition shall not apply to any trap specifically
designed to kill rats, mice, gophers, or moles unless the property owner is
unaware of their placement. Persons who believe that this section is being
violated shall file their grievance with the Animal Control Officer for review.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   No person shall keep more than a total of 3 dogs or cats over the age
of 6 months per household in any residential area zone. These restrictions mean
a total of 3 animals; for example, 2 dogs and 1 cat, or 2 cats and 1 dog, but
in no event shall the total number exceed 3 of the animals per household.
   (B)   This restriction shall not apply to property which is at least 1/3 of
an acre of land (14,520 square feet); however, any person owning more than 3
animals must comply with division (C) herein.
   (C)   Persons desiring to have more than 3 animals who meet the regulation
set forth in division (B) herein must have a minimum of 1,000 additional square
feet for each additional animal.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 ACREAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN DOMESTIC ANIMALS; PROHIBITION OF
SWINE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to keep any of the following domestic
animals or fowl in the town must have a minimum of 2 contiguous acres of land
in the town, upon which the animals would be kept and which acreage must be
enclosed by a fence to confine the animals:
         (a)   Cow, ox, cattle, calves, or other livestock;
         (b)   Donkey, ass, burro, or mule;
         (c)   Sheep;
         (d)   Goat, except pygmy goat (see division (E) below);
         (e)   Chickens, roosters, geese, turkeys, ducks, or other fowl, except
racing or homing pigeons, or pot belly pigs;
         (f)   Bees;
         (g)   Horses;
         (h)   Bison; and/or
         (i)   Camelot animals.
      (2)   The maximum number of animals, which may be maintained on the
property, shall be determined in light of current animal husbandry and
veterinary standards.
   (B)   (1)   In no event shall the shelter and feeding station for any of the
animals or fowl designated in division (A) above be closer than 50 feet from
the adjoining property line.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit
the keeping of bees in a hive, stand, or box located or kept within a
zoological park, school, or university building for the purpose of study or
observation, as long as the public safety is ensured.
      (3)   Bees must be kept in accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   If bee colonies are kept within 50 feet of any exterior boundary
of the property on which the hive, stand, or box is located, a barrier shall be
erected that will prevent bees from flying through it;
         (b)   Fresh, clean watering facilities for bees shall be provided on
the premises; and
         (c)   The bees and equipment shall be kept in accordance with the
provisions of state statutes.
   (C)   Any person desiring to raise rabbits for pets or racing or homing
pigeons within the town must keep the animals and birds in safe and sanitary
conditions so that a public nuisance defined herein is not created.
   (D)   No person may keep within the town, as presently or hereinafter
established, any swine, pigpens, or hog sties. Possession of the items
constitutes a public nuisance, except pot belly pigs.
   (E)   Pot belly pigs/pygmy goats shall be allowed only on a lot with a
minimum of 2 acres of land for each individual animal and all other sections of
this chapter shall be added hereto.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 OWNERS OR AGENTS RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING ANIMAL WASTES AND DEAD
ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any owner or his or her agent taking the owner’s dog or cat outside of
the owner’s property limits must immediately remove any excrement deposited by
the animal on any public or private property, except in the case of a guide dog
for a blind person or service dog for deaf or physically disabled person.
   (B)   The owners of any dead animal shall remove and properly dispose of the
animal within 24 hours after its death. The real property owner is responsible
for removal of any strange animal carcass on his or her real property.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   If any person is a victim of an animal bite, he or she shall
immediately notify the County Health Department, Marshal’s Department or animal
control agency of the incident, and provide a description of the animal and
identification, if possible, of the owner. When an animal is determined to have
bitten a person, the animal shall be confined in quarantine for a period of not
less than 10 days.
   (B)   If the owner of an animal that has bitten a person presents proof of
current rabies inoculations, the animal may be left in the charge of the owner,
under quarantine, unless, in the judgment of the Animal Control Officer or law
enforcement member, and based upon considerations of public safety, the Animal
Control Officer determines it should be removed to an animal shelter or
veterinary hospital for the period of observation.
   (C)   In addition to any other legal obligations prescribed by law, the
owner shall pay for all costs incurred in the quarantine and/or impoundment of
the animal before the animal will be released. If the owner is unable or
unwilling to pay for the costs, the animal may be humanely euthanized, and the
owner shall still remain liable to the animal shelter for any costs incurred in
the quarantine and/or impoundment.
   (D)   If the owner of the quarantined animal cannot be determined, or if the
owner does not furnish proof of current rabies inoculation, the animal shall be
impounded under the authority of the town animal control agency and confined in
the town’s animal control facility for a period of observation of not fewer
than 10 days.
   (E)   Animal Control Officers shall be empowered to enter onto private
property for the purpose of impounding animals which are known to have bitten a
person and shall obtain legal process to do so if necessary.
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided, the town and any of its agents shall comply
with the standards set forth in state law.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No animal owner or his or her agent shall keep or harbor a dog or cat
over the age of 3 months unless it has been vaccinated annually by a licensed
veterinarian with anti-rabies vaccine.
   (B)   The owner shall maintain proof of an animal’s vaccination so that it
can be presented to the town or its agents upon request.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject
the owner of the unvaccinated dog and/or cat to being issued an ordinance
violation citation subjecting the owner to a fine as set forth in §
94.99.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 94.13 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere with or impede an Animal Control Officer or any
other authorized agent in the performance of his or her duties as set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 EXCLUSION OF SERVICE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person owning, operating, or maintaining any public place of business to
which the general public is invited for any business purpose shall exclude
therefrom any dog that has been trained to assist the blind, the hearing-
impaired, or the physically disabled. However, the dog must be in the company
of the disabled person for whom it was trained to assist or in the company of a
licensed obedience service trainer.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 CONFINEMENT BY OTHER THAN TOWN OFFICIALS; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless authorized by the owner of an animal, no person shall hold or
retain possession of any animal of which he or she is not the owner for more
than 24 hours, without first reporting the possession of the animal to an
Animal Control Officer, or an animal control agency or its designee.
   (B)   When reporting possession of an animal, the person shall give his or
her name and address, a description of the animal, a true and complete
statement of the circumstances under which he or she took possession of the
animal, and the precise location where the animal is confined.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 BREAKING INTO ANIMAL SHELTER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break into any animal shelter where
animals are impounded by the town or in any way remove or assist in the removal
of any animal from the described property, without lawful permission.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 DANGEROUS AND POISONOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall harbor or possess within the town any poisonous
animal, reptile, amphibian, fish, or insect, or any animal that poses a threat
to the public health and safety.
   (B)   The animal may be impounded by the animal control agency and disposed
of in a manner determined to be in the best interest of the animal and the
public.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An Animal Control Officer or law enforcement member may immediately
seize, impound, or confine any of the following animals:
      (1)   Any dog or cat without a valid license tag;
      (2)   Any animal running at large;
      (3)   Any animal constituting a public nuisance;
      (4)   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured, or otherwise in need of
care;
      (5)   Any unattended animal that is reasonably believed to have been
abused or neglected;
      (6)   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
      (7)   Any animal charged with being dangerous or determined to be
dangerous by the Animal Control Officer; and/or
      (8)   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or evicted from his
or her regular place of residence.
   (B)   If any dangerous, ferocious, or vicious animal is found at large and
cannot be safely impounded, an animal may be tranquilized, slain, or humanely
euthanized to prevent harm or undue suffering by a law enforcement member, an
Animal Control Officer, or humane officer.
   (C)   Impounded dogs and cats that are not properly licensed must be kept
pursuant to regulations of the St. Joseph County Humane Society.
   (D)   The town animal control agency shall have authority to take whatever
action is reasonably necessary, including humane euthanization, to deal with a
sick or injured animal, for the welfare of the animal and for the safety of
humane officers and the public.
   (E)   Nothing contained herein shall limit the animal shelter’s authority to
take whatever action is reasonably necessary to provide veterinary care by a
licensed veterinarian for a sick or injured animal.
   (F)   Any animal impounded in an animal control facility, if not reclaimed
by its owner as provided for herein, shall thereby become the property of the
animal control agency and, if not adopted by the public, shall be humanely
euthanized.
   (G)   An animal’s owner shall be liable for any expenses, including
veterinary services, incurred by the local humane society, animal care
facility, animal shelter, or any other agency under this chapter.
And. Ord. 3105, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 94.19 PROTECTED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall possess, offer for sale, and attempt to buy or own
within the town any of the following animals of either thoroughbred or hybrid
stock or pedigree:
      (1)   All wild cats of the family feline;
      (2)   Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus);
      (3)   Red wolf (Canis niger and hybrids);
      (4)   Vicuna (Vicugna);
      (5)   Alligator;
      (6)   Caiman or crocodile of the order of Crocodilia;
      (7)   Gray or timber wolf (Canis lupus and hybrids);
      (8)   Sea otter (Enhydra lutris);
      (9)   Pacific Ridley turtle (Lepidochelys olivacea);
      (10)   Atlantic green turtle (Chelonia myns); and/or
      (11)   Mexican Ridley turtle (Lepidochelys kempi).
   (B)   No person shall buy, sell, or offer for sale or own a native or
foreign species of subspecies of mammal, bird, amphibian, or reptile, or the
dead body or parts thereof which appears on the endangered species list
designated by the United States Secretary of Interior and published in the Code
of Federal Regulations pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1969 (Pub. Law
No. 135, 91st Congress), being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   No person shall import or cause to be imported into this town any part
of the plumage, skin, or dead body of any species of hawk, owl, or eagle. This
division shall not be construed to forbid or restrict the importation or use of
the plumage, skin, body, or any part thereof legally collected for use by
American Indians for ceremonial purposes or in the preservation of their tribal
customs and heritage.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to prevent the importation,
possession, purchase, or sale of any species to any person or organization
licensed to present a circus or carnival pursuant to this code.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep, maintain, or have in his or her possession or
under his or her control, within the town, any poisonous reptile or any other
dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any vicious or dangerous
domesticated animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild, vicious or
dangerous propensities.
   (B)   No person shall keep, maintain, or have in his or her possession or
under his or her control, within the town, any of the following animals of
either thoroughbred or hybrid stock or pedigree:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes, such as chimpanzee (Pan), gibbons (Hylobates), gorillas
(Gorilla), orangutans (Pongo), and siamangs (Symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboons (Papio, Mandrillus);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (Bison);
      (6)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (7)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia);
      (8)   Constrictor snakes, including, but not limited to, boa, python, and
anaconda;
      (9)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
      (10)   Deer (Cervidae), such as white-tailed deer, elk, antelope, and
moose;
      (11)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta);
      (12)   Gamecocks and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (14)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (15)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);
      (16)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
      (17)   Lions (Panthera leo);
      (18)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (19)   Monkeys, old world (cercopithecidae), new world;
      (20)   Ostriches (Struthio);
      (21)   Piranha fish (Characidae);
      (22)   Pumas (Felis concolor), such as cougars, mountain lions, and
panthers;
      (23)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocerotidae);
      (24)   Sharks (class Chondrichthyes);
      (25)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia);
      (26)   Spiders and insects which are poisonous;
      (27)   Tigers (Panthera tigris);
      (28)   Wolves (Canis lupus and hybrids);
      (29)   Monitor lizard; or
      (30)   Wild animals.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to institutions of
higher learning, zoological parks, circuses, or persons harboring animals
specifically for the purpose of rehabilitation and release into their natural
habitat pursuant to a valid wildlife permit issued by the state or an agency of
the United States if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the town ordinance;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate offensive odors; and/or
      (3)   Animals are confined in a manner so as to prevent their escape and
protect the public from coming in direct contact with them.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 SEIZURE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, harbor, own, or permit to be kept on his or her
premises any wild animal (ferae naturae). Wild animals shall include, but are
not limited to, raccoons, skunks, foxes, squirrels, chipmunks, porcupines,
wolves, and woodchucks.
   (B)   Zoological parks, animal care facilities, circuses, or carnivals
properly licensed pursuant to this chapter, and persons possessing a valid
wildlife permit from the Indiana Department of Conservation are exempt from
this section.
   (C)   Any person who owns, possesses, or harbors any wild animal in
violation of this section may have the animal seized and impounded.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)
§ 94.22 SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH.
   (A)   If an animal kills or causes serious injury, the animal shall be
deemed a dangerous animal, pursuant to §
94.01, and the animal shall be humanely impounded. The owner shall be
responsible for the costs of caring for the animal during the period of
impoundment including, but not limited to, costs of boarding and veterinary
treatment, if necessary. If the owner institutes an appeal pursuant to §
94.33, and the animal is ultimately determined not to be a dangerous animal,
the owner shall not be charged the costs of boarding the animal.
   (B)   Upon the impoundment of the animal pursuant to this section, the owner
shall be given 48 hours to show or apply for a license pursuant to §
94.33 or to appeal the determination that the animal is a dangerous animal
pursuant to §
94.01.
   (C)   If the owner fails to appeal or to show proof of or apply for a
license within 48 hours of impoundment, or if the owner waives in writing all
ownership interests in the animal, the owner’s right to possession, title, and
custody and care of the animal shall be forfeited and the animal may be
humanely euthanized.
   (D)   If the owner’s appeal is denied, the owner shall have 48 hours after
the denial to apply for a license pursuant to §
94.33 and 14 days after the denial to actually obtain a dangerous dog permit.
The failure to apply within 48 hours of the denial constitutes waiver of
ownership rights in the animal.
   (E)   The owner of animal, which kills or causes serious injury to a person
who is found guilty of criminal trespass, as heretofore described, shall not be
subject to the violation provisions set forth herein.
   (F)   Due to the overriding public health and safety concerns related to any
dangerous animals, the provisions of this chapter are purposely intended to be
reasonable regulations, yet may be more restrictive than regulations found in
other sections of this chapter.
   (G)   If a conflict arises between the provisions of this chapter and other
chapters of this code, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail due to the
public health and safety concerns.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
REGISTRATION; LICENSING
§ 94.30 PERFORMING ANIMAL LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or maintain a performing animal exhibition
without first having obtained a license from the animal control agency.
   (B)   The applicant shall describe the proposed location, the purposes for
which it is maintained, and the dates and hours of the performances. The
application shall be accompanied by the written approval of the Department of
Code Enforcement showing compliance with the local and state regulations
governing location of and sanitation at the establishment, the written approval
of the building, zoning, and public health and safety regulations.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide proof of insurance executed by a company
legally authorized to do business in the state. The liability limits shall not
be less than the amounts set forth in state law.
   (D)   Each license for any performing animal exhibition shall cost per day
as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, and shall be valid for no more than 5 consecutive days.
   (E)   Licenses for the performing animal exhibitions shall not be
transferable from 1 owner to another or to different premises.
   (F)   Any license issued under the provisions of this section may be
suspended or revoked for violation of any local, county, or state law
regulating the establishments, upon notice and hearing to the licensee.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 PET REGISTRATION.
   (A)   This section does not pertain to any dangerous animal/attack dog.
   (B)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of any dog or
cat over the age of 3 months must obtain a pet registration for the animal. No
pet registration shall be required of any municipal animal control facility or
governmental agency, or for a service dog. Animals belonging to those agencies
or persons will be issued complimentary registration tags.
   (C)   A written application for the registration shall be made to the town
animal control agency or Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The applicant shall include
his or her name and address, a description of the animal, payment of the
appropriate fee, and a valid rabies certificate. This application must be made
within 30 days after either obtaining a dog or cat over 3 months of age, or
after a younger animal attains the age of 3 months. This requirement, however,
shall not apply to a nonresident keeping a dog or cat within the town for not
longer than 30 days.
   (D)   A durable tag stamped with a registration number and year of issuance
will be provided to pet registration holders for each registration granted.
Dogs and cats must wear their tags at all times, except when involved in any
organized show, obedience demonstration, training situation, when under the
care of a licensed veterinarian, or when properly kenneled.
   (E)   No registration shall be issued for a dog or cat unless the animal
owner provides proof of current and effective rabies vaccination.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 PET SHOP PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, partnership, or corporation shall operate a pet shop
without first obtaining from the town or its agent a pet shop permit and paying
the necessary fees. Any person holding a pet shop permit shall furnish, at the
time of sale, to each customer purchasing a dog or cat a written statement
containing the following information:
      (1)   Date of sale;
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of the purchaser and permit
holder;
      (3)   Permit holder’s number;
      (4)   Species, breed, description, age, and sex of dog or cat sold;
      (5)   The animal’s origin, its owner’s name and address, and its health
papers, as required under state law;
      (6)   Vaccination and parasite medication administered to the animal,
date administered, and name of veterinarian or person who administered the
same; and
      (7)   Guarantee of good health for a period of not less than 1 week with
recommendation to have the animal examined by a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   The permit holder shall retain a copy of the written statement for a
period of 12 months from the date of sale, and provide a duplicate copy to the
licensing authority if the purchaser resides within corporate limits of the
town.
   (C)   (1)   The permit holder shall also deliver to the purchaser at the
time of sale a written statement of the registration and licensing requirements
applicable to the purchased animal if the purchaser resides within the
corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   The statement shall be prepared by the town and provided by the
animal control agency.
   (D)   All pet shops shall take care to house animals in a sanitary manner,
and to provide appropriate veterinary services, humane care, and housing
according to the needs of individual species.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.33 DANGEROUS ANIMAL/ATTACK DOG PERMIT.
   (A)   A person shall not own, harbor, possess, or keep an attack dog, or any
other dangerous animal unless the animal is licensed under this subchapter or
an application for licensing of the animal under this subchapter is pending.
Any person whose pet has been determined to be a dangerous animal may file an
appeal within 48 hours after the determination. The appeal shall be in writing,
accompanied with a nonrefundable appeal fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 and be directed to the animal control agency and the Department of
Code Enforcement.
   (B)   Any owner of an attack dog, or other dangerous animal shall apply to
the animal control agency or the town’s agent for licensing of the animal. The
application shall be on a form provided by the town’s agent and shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A valid driver’s license or state issued picture identification
showing the owner’s name and current address;
      (2)   Proof that the applicant owns the animal and is 18 years of age or
older;
      (3)   One copy of a registration certificate issued for the animal by the
A.K.C. and/or A.D.B.A., if available and applicable;
      (4)   One copy of the current immunization and health records for the
animal showing the animal received a current rabies vaccination by a licensed
veterinarian;
      (5)   Proof that the applicant has insurance coverage for not less than
$300,000 for any injury, damage, or loss caused by the animal;
      (6)   Four photographs of the animal from 4 different sides taken not
more than 1 month before the date of the application. The photographs shall
consist of a front, back, left, and right side view of the animal;
       (7)   Proof that the animal has been microchipped by a licensed
veterinarian; and
      (8)   The name, address, and phone number of the animal’s previous owner.
   (C)   The dangerous animal/attack dog shall be confined, at all times,
within a habitable escape-proof dwelling or an escape-proof cage made of at
least 14-gauge wire with at least 6-foot high sides, a wood or wire roof and a
brick or cement floor. The cage door also shall be locked with a padlock.
However, when the animal is not confined within a habitable dwelling or an
escape-proof cage, it shall be muzzled and reined or tethered to its master,
owner, or keeper who shall maintain control over the animal to prevent injury
to any person or animal.
   (D)   The dangerous animal/attack dog shall wear a permit tag issued by the
animal control agency stating that the animal is registered as a dangerous
animal/attack dog.
   (E)   When licensing an animal not previously licensed under this section,
the animal control agency or its designee shall assign a specific license
number to the animal, without duplication, which number shall remain the same
for the life of the animal.
   (F)   If the animal is lost or escapes, the owner or owner’s agent shall
report the incident immediately to the town’s animal control agency.
   (G)   The owner of a dangerous animal/attack dog shall post signs on his or
her property where the animal will be kept, clearly visible from the closest
street, advising the general public about the animal’s presence on the
premises. The signs shall be supplied by the animal control agency after
applicant pays for the permit. The permit, however, shall not be issued until
the owner posts the signs and the animal control agency inspects the property
to verify proper posting of the signs. The cost of the signs is nonrefundable
and they will belong to the applicant even if the permit is reissued or
revoked.
   (H)   No person shall be issued an attack dog/dangerous animal permit if he
or she has been convicted of a felony.
   (I)   The animal control agency shall visually inspect the premises where
the animal is kept. The inspection will consist of the cage, or if there is no
cage, the officer will inspect the escape-proof habitat
dwelling, doors, windows, and screen opening to determine if, in fact, they are
escape-proof. Also the inspection will consist of the placement of warning
signs, the animal leash, the muzzle, and the padlock for the cage. The animal
control agency must be satisfied that the owner has met all licensing
requirements before issuing or renewing a permit.
   (J)   If an attack dog/dangerous animal permit is revoked, the owner shall
not be reissued another permit.
   (K)   Duly authorized members of the Marshal’s Department or other law
enforcement agencies, including, but not limited to, game wardens, conservation
officers, and other law enforcement officers, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section if the animal is used for law enforcement duties.
   (L)   If the animal control agency and/or Department of Code Enforcement is
notified of an address where an attack dog is being kept or harbored, and that
animal and owner of the property have not been in violation of any section of
this chapter, the owner shall have a maximum of 14 days to obtain the attack
dog/dangerous animal permit. If the permit is not obtained within the 14 days,
the animal shall be impounded. The animal will then be held a maximum of 10
days so that a permit can be issued. If a permit is still not obtained, the
animal shall be euthanized.
   (M)   If the owner of a dangerous animal/attack dog violates any provisions
of this chapter, the animal shall be impounded immediately and held until an
Animal Control Commission hearing. At the hearing, the Animal Control
Commission shall determine whether in fact a violation of this chapter has
occurred. If the Commission determines that a violation of this chapter has
occurred, it shall have the authority to impose a fine, pursuant to §
94.99(C)(7), and/or order the animal euthanized. A dangerous animal/attack dog
shall not be euthanized until after the Animal Control Commission has rendered
a final decision.
   (N)   In the event that an attack dog/dangerous animal changes owners, the
new owner must apply for a new permit. The original owner’s permit shall not be
transferable to the new owner. The original owner shall notify the animal
control agency that the animal has been sold or given away.
   (O)   The owner of an attack dog/dangerous animal shall notify the animal
control agency if the address changes where the animal is being kept. The owner
must report the new address so an inspection can be made of the premises.
   (P)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire December 31 of
each year.
   (Q)   No person shall fight, bait, conspire to fight or bait, or keep,
train, or transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting, any animal required
to be licensed under this chapter. A person who violates this section shall be
reported by the Department of Code Enforcement or its designated agent to the
County Prosecutor’s office for prosecution under I.C. 35-46-3-8 et seq.
   (R)   The owner, or owner’s agent, of an animal required to be licensed
under this chapter shall notify the Marshal’s Department and the town’s animal
control agency within 4 hours if the animal is running at large, has been
stolen, or has attacked a person or a domestic animal.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.34 PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No permits shall be required for the following organizations or
animals:
      (1)   The town animal control agency;
      (2)   A state-licensed veterinary hospital/clinic;
      (3)   Birds held under state or federal falconry permits; or
      (4)   Service dogs specifically trained to assist their disabled owner.
   (B)   However, all other animal care provisions of this chapter shall apply
to the exempt persons or entities.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 94.35 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS (ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS).
   (A)   A person may register or apply for a permit with the Clerk-Treasurer.
The applicant shall include, on the appropriate forms, the following
information: his or her name, address, and phone number; the type of permit
requested; the number and description of animals; proof of a valid rabies
vaccination by a licensed veterinarian, if required by law; information
regarding sterilization; and the appropriate registration or permit fee.
Appropriate state and federal permit numbers must be provided in cases
involving wildlife or federally protected animals, or any animal, which
requires any state or federal permit.
   (B)   All applicants shall comply with all other applicable federal, state,
and local laws, and the applicant shall not have been convicted of any cruelty
to animal offense pursuant to Indiana Code.
   (C)   Applicants for permits shall allow, upon reasonable notice, the town
animal control agency to conduct on-site inspections prior to the issuance of
any permit and/or at any time during the valid term of the permit.
   (D)   The town or the animal control agency shall have the authority to
issue or deny an application for registration and/or a permit. In determining
whether to issue or deny an application for registration or a permit, the town
or the animal control agency shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   Whether the person has been convicted of cruelty to animals;
      (2)   Whether the applicant has the proper facilities in place for a
specific species as required by this law;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has sufficient knowledge and proof of
previous experience in handling and keeping the animal species; and
      (4)   Whether the applicant has a history, documented by the animal
control agency or the town’s designated agent, of providing inadequate or
improper care for the animals.
   (E)   Registrations and permits, except dangerous animal/attack dog, shall
be issued for a term of 1 year, effective January 1 through December 31 of each
year. They shall be purchased during the first 3 months of each calendar year
or within 30 days of acquiring the animal, whichever comes later. However, a
performing animal license shall only be valid for 14 days.
   (F)   Upon approval of an application for registration or a permit, the town
animal control agency shall issue a pet registration or permit in written form
which shall include the registration or permit number, the type of registration
or permit, and any pertinent information. In addition, for each registered pet,
the town animal control agency shall issue a durable tag stamped with the
registration number and year of issuance for each registration.
   (G)   The town animal control agency shall maintain records with the
identifying registration number, microchip number and permit number.
   (H)   All fees shall be paid at the time of application and prior to the
issuance of the permit or registration.
   (I)   No person shall use any registration, permit, license, or tag for any
animal other than the animal for which it was issued.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, to cause to be
manufactured, or to have in his or her possession or control a stolen,
counterfeit, or forged animal registration, permit, license, tag, rabies or
neutering certificate, or other form of licensing or documentation required by
this section.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 FEES.
   In addition to all other fees required by law, an animal owner shall pay
annual fees for pet shop and breeder’s permits, dangerous/attack dog permit and
breeder’s permits, and performing animal license, as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. 1412, passed 7-7-2021)
§ 94.37 REGISTRATION/PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any pet registration or permit, provided for herein above, may be revoked
after notice and a hearing before the Town Council. An owner’s pet registration
or permit, however, shall only be revoked after the officer or Commission finds
that the animal owner or permit holder has failed to comply with any
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 94.38 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law, a health
officer, law enforcement member, code enforcement officer, or humane officer is
authorized at all reasonable times to inspect the same for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or any state law, provided that:
      (1)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor;
and
      (2)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry, explaining the reasons therefor.
   (B)   In the event the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the
keeping or maintaining of an animal is so hazardous, unsafe, dangerous, or
constitutes a public nuisance as to require immediate inspection to safeguard
the animal or the public health or safety, the officer shall first present
proper credentials and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor. If entry
is refused or cannot be obtained, the officer shall have recourse to secure
lawful entry and inspection of the property.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 94.39 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this code or
any ordinance, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated
period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period
so computed is to be included unless it is:
      (1)   A Saturday;
      (2)   A Sunday;
      (3)   A legal holiday as defined by state statute; or
      (4)   A day the office in which the act is to be done is closed during
regular business hours.
   (B)   In any event, the period runs until the end of the next day that is
not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the office is
closed. When the period of time allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate
Saturdays, Sundays, legal holiday, and days on which the office is closed shall
be excluded from the computations.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Warning notices for pet registration and permits.
      (1)   Persons who fail to have their dogs or cats vaccinated and
registered pursuant to §
94.31, or who fail to comply with the permit requirements of §§
94.30 through
94.33 may be served with a warning notice requesting immediate compliance. This
notice shall be served by the animal control agency. Only 1 warning notice may
be given per year to an individual who has failed to have a dog or cat
vaccinated or properly registered. All other violations of this chapter are
subject to the citations and fines stated herein.
      (2)   The warning notice shall contain the name and address of the
violator, the section violated, nature of the violation, date, time, and
location of the violation, the name of the officer issuing the warning notice
and the telephone number of the officer to contact for information.
   (B)   Citations, and/or hearings before the Town Council; fines payable
through the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
      (1)   Any person served with a warning notice for failure to have a dog
or cat vaccinated or registered and who fails to comply within 10 days and any
person who violates any other provision of this chapter, shall be issued a
citation. Citations shall contain the name and address of the violator, the
ordinance section violated, the date, time, and nature of the violation,
location of the violation, and the name of the person issuing the citation.
      (2)   In addition to having a citation issued, the town may require a
person who has violated a provision of this chapter to appear before the Town
Council with proper notice of the same being issued to the violator, unless an
appeal hearing is scheduled before the Town Council officer as further
addressed in §
94.34 of this chapter.
   (C)   Fines.
      (1)   Any person who violates §§
94.02 through
94.04, §§
94.06 through
94.08, §
94.10, §
94.12, or §
94.13 shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99(A).
      (2)   Any person who violates §
94.02(E) (specific regulations - fighting) shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(A).
      (3)   An Animal Control Officer may seize and impound any animal being
offered for sale or owned in violation of §
94.19. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined as set forth in §
10.99(A) for first and each subsequent offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
      (4)   Any person firm or corporation violating any provision of §
94.20 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(A) for first and each subsequent offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during which or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
      (5)   Persons in violation of §
94.21 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(A) for first and each subsequent offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during which or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
      (6)   Any person who violates §§
94.30 through
94.32 shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99(A).
      (7)   Any person who violates §
94.33 shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99(A).
      (8)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter, unless
otherwise specified, shall be issued fines as set forth in §
10.99(A) for first and each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 1154, passed 9-12-2006)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Declaration of policy
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Clarifications of “in the business of selling or renting dwellings”
   
95.04   Unlawful practices
   
95.05   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.06   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
95.07   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.08   Exemptions
   
95.09   Procedure
   
95.10   Other remedies
   
95.11   Administrative enforcement
   
95.12   Effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is declared to be the policy of the town in the exercise of its law
enforcement power for the public safety, public health, and general welfare to
assure equal opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing facilities
regardless of race, color, religion, sex, HIV-positive status, or national
origin, and to that end, to prohibit discrimination in housing by any persons,
as provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 28 U.S.C. §§
1360 et seq., as amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(1992 Code, § 6-70) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABILITY. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits 1 or
more of the person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.;
      (5)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 4-23-29; and
      (6)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the
term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATION or DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Any difference in
treatment based upon race, color, religion, sex, HIV-positive status, national
origin, familial status or disabilities, or any act that is unlawful under this
chapter.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS means
discrimination because the person is: (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is
either (a) the parent or legal custodian, or (b) has the written permission of
the parent or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the
process of obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of
age.
   FAMILY. An individual (defined in I.C. 22-9.5-2-9) or individuals having
familial status as that term is defined in this section.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Includes any person, as defined herein, engaged in
the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION or DWELLING. Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended
for occupancy, as a residence by 1 or more families, and any vacant land which
is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any
building, mobile home or trailer, structure, or portion thereof or any real
property, as defined herein, used or intended to be used for any of the
purposes set forth in this section.
   MORTGAGE BROKER. An individual who is engaged in or who performs the
business or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by Indiana
statutes.
   OPEN MARKET. The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed
through a real estate broker or by advertising publication, signs, or by any
other advertising methods directed to the public or a portion thereof,
indicating that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental, or lease.
   OWNER. Includes a lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent, or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent, or lease any housing accommodation.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint
adventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations, and all other groups or combinations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, non-incorporated organizations, trustees in cases under
U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESMAN. Includes any individual,
qualified by law who, for a fee, commission, salary, or for other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting same, lists, sells, purchases, rents, or leases any housing
accommodations, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate those activities; or who advertises or holds himself or herself out
as engaged in those activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a
loan, secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing
accommodation; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he or
she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any housing
accommodation through its listing in a publication issued primarily for that
purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives, and condominiums used as a residence by 1 or more families.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(1992 Code, § 6-71) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.03 CLARIFICATION OF “IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS.”
   For the purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed to be in the
business of selling or renting dwellings if:
   (A)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as a
principal in 3 or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
   (B)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in 2 or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
   (C)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, 5 or more families.
(1992 Code, § 6-72) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.04 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation, it shall
be unlawful within the town for a person, owner, financial institution, real
estate broker or real estate salesperson, or any representative of the above,
to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth, disability,
familial status, or HIV-positive status;
   (B)   Discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, or in the
furnishing of facilities of services in connection therewith;
   (C)   Refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent, or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth,
disability, familial status, or HIV-positive status;
   (D)   Refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth, disability, familial status,
or HIV-positive status;
   (E)   Represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not available
for inspection, sale, purchase, rental, or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing accommodation
because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or
place of birth, disability, familial status, or HIV-positive status;
   (F)   Make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, or posted or mailed, any notice, statement, or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease, or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease, or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to
discriminate;
   (G)   Offer, solicit, accept, or use a listing of any housing accommodation
for sale, purchase, rental, or lease with the understanding that a person may
be subjected to discrimination in connection with the sale, purchase, rental,
or lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith;
   (H)   Induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental, or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin, place of birth, disability, familial status, or HIV-
positive status, or in the area to be affected by the sale, purchase, rental,
or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      (3)   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   (I)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental, or lease, or the anticipated listing of any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation in any area
in the town for the purpose of inducing, or attempting to induce, any like
listing or any of the above transactions;
   (J)   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest, or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation;
   (K)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this section, or because he
or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner
in any investigation, proceeding, hearing, or conference under this chapter;
   (L)   To aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued
thereunder;
   (M)   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter;
   (N)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sex or place of birth, disability, familial status, or HIV-positive status;
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company, or
other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business consists, in
whole or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or
to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration, or other terms or conditions of the loans or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
disability, familial status, or HIV-positive status of the person or of any
person associated with him or her in connection with the loan or other
financial assistance or the purposes of the loan or other financial assistance
or of the present to prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; or
   (P)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
to any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization, or other
service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, disability, familial status, or HIV-positive
status.
(1992 Code, § 6-73) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a disability of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (D)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and the American National Standard for Buildings and
Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically disabled people
(commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (C)(3)(c)3. above.
   (E)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(1992 Code, § 6-74) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, HIV-positive status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, familial status,
or HIV-positive status.
(1992 Code, § 6-75) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with the following shall be fined as set forth
in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, in addition to any and all other available penalties under state
and/or federal law:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, HIV- positive status, or national origin and
because he or she is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing,
occupying, or contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental,
financing or occupation, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, HIV-positive status, or national
origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities
described in this chapter; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage the citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, HIV-positive status, or national
origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities
described in division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful
assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(1992 Code, § 6-76) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious organization, association, or society or any nonprofit
institution or organization operating, supervised, or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society which limits
the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other
than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which gives
preference to such persons, unless membership in the religion is restricted on
account of race, color, sex, national origin, disability, familial status, or
HIV-positive status;
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of the lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members;
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least 1 person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
   (D)   Any single family house sold or rented by an owner, provided:
      (1)   That the private individual owner does not own more than 3 single
family houses at any one time;
      (2)   Further, in the case of the sale of any single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of the sale or
who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the
exemption granted by this section shall apply only with respect to 1 like sale
within any 24-month period;
      (3)   That the bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or served on his or her behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than 3 single family houses at
any 1 time;
      (4)   The sale or rental of any single family house shall be excepted
from the application of this chapter only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesperson, or of the facilities or services of any person in the businesses
of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any like
broker, agent, salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice but nothing in this provision shall
prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and
other professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
   (E)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than 4 families living independently of each
other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies 1 of the living quarters as
his or her residence.
(1992 Code, § 6-77)
§ 95.09 PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this chapter may
file a complaint with the Town Council within 30 days after the aggrieved
person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice and in no event more than
60 days after the alleged unlawful practice occurred. The Town Council or its
duly authorized representative shall investigate each complaint and attempt to
resolve each complaint. Failure to achieve a resolution acceptable to both
parties and compliance with this chapter shall cause the Town Council to
forward the complaint and its findings to appropriate state and federal
officials.
(1992 Code, § 6-79) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.10 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person from exercising any right
or seeking any remedy to which he or she might otherwise be entitled or from
filing his or her complaint with any appropriate governmental agency.
(1992 Code, § 6-79) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Town Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the chapter by complaints
to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Town Council shall refer
all complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this
section to the Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution, and
appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purpose of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further the purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council or the Chief Executive Officer’s designee, shall
provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complaint
requesting information.
(1992 Code, § 6-80) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect as of January 27, 1998.
(1992 Code, § 6-82) (Ord. 963, § 2, passed 1-27-1998)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of the chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 96: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   False alarms prohibited
   
96.03   Exceptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS OF GOD. An unusual, extraordinary, sudden or unexpected display of the
forces of nature against which the science and the skill of mankind are of no
avail.
   ALARM MONITORING AGENCY. Any corporation, partnership, unincorporated entity
or individual who monitors an alarm system existing in the town on behalf of an
alarm system user with the purpose of transmitting information to the Town
Marshal, Fire Department, or other town personnel regarding the presence of a
hazard requiring urgent attention, to which the Town Marshal, Volunteer Fire
Department, or other town personnel are expected to respond.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity or condition
requiring urgent attention and to which the law enforcement and/or Fire
Department are directly or indirectly (through an alarm monitoring agency)
expected to respond. This definition does not include audible alarms fixed to
automobiles or other motor vehicles.
   ALARM SYSTEM USERS. Any corporation, partnership, unincorporated entity, or
individual, whether owner, occupant, or tenant, upon whose premises or property
an alarm system is maintained or operated within the town, except for an alarm
system on motor vehicles; if, however, the alarm system on a motor vehicle is
connected with an alarm system on premises, the person using the system is an
alarm user.
   FALSE ALARMS. Any meritless signal received by the town or the Town Marshal
or Town Volunteer Fire Department from an alarm monitoring agency to which the
Town Marshal, Volunteer Fire Department, or other town personnel are expected
to respond, except signals that are caused by criminal activity or acts of God
or circumstances not controlled by an alarm company or user.
   TOWN. The Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County, Indiana.
(Ord. 1059, passed 12-19-2000)
§ 96.02 FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   No alarm system user or alarm monitoring agency shall cause or allow a false
alarm to be made. An alarm system user and/or alarm system monitor shall be in
violation of this chapter whenever any alarm system maintained on his or her
premises (in the case of the user) or an alarm system that he or she monitors
(in the case of a monitor) registers more than 2 false alarms in any 365-day
period.
(Ord. 1059, passed 12-19-2000) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the use of an alarm system by law
enforcement personnel of federal, state, or local governments.
(Ord. 1059, passed 12-19-2000)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(B).
   (B)   Law enforcement shall provide written notice to the owner of the
premises (or person in possession of premises) advising that its alarm system
experienced problems and may be defective.
   (C)   Any person who experiences a third false alarm violation within a 1-
year period shall pay a fine as set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98 plus
any costs, damages, expenses, or other losses by the town, as direct result of
the violation.
   (D)   Any subsequent or repeat violation by the same individual of the same
alleged violation within the 1-year period shall carry a fine as set forth in
the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98, plus costs, damages, expenses or other losses
incurred by the town as a direct result of the violation.
   (E)   Any subsequent violation by the same individual of the same alleged
violation within the 1-year period shall carry a fine as set forth in the Fee
Schedule, Chapter 98, plus costs, damages, expenses or other losses incurred by
the town as a direct result of the violation.
(Ord. 1059, passed 12-19-2000)
CHAPTER 97: REFUSE AND THE LIKE; WEEDS
Section
Collection and Disposal of Garbage, Trash, and Junk; Weeds
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Town collection and disposal of refuse, garbage, and trash
   
97.03   Charges for collection
   
97.04   Delinquency; collection
   
97.05   Clearing alleys and streets
   
97.06   Containers required
   
97.07   Time and place for collection of refuse, garbage, and trash
   
97.08   Placement of refuse, garbage, and trash for collection
   
97.09   Accumulation of junk prohibited
   
97.10   Notice to abate nuisance
   
97.11   Weed control
   
97.12   Weed inspections
Mandatory Curbside Recycling Program
   
97.20   Role of Solid Waste Management District
   
97.21   Curbside recycling fees
   
97.22   Residents affected
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances and yard waste regulations, see
Ch. 93
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE, TRASH, AND JUNK; WEEDS
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   PERSON. Cities, villages, townships, counties, and other governmental
agencies, corporations, and both municipal and private associations,
partnerships, individuals, and authorities.
   REFUSE. Garbage, trash, or any combination thereof.
   TRASH. Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as pallier, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings,
wood, glass, ashes, bedding, crockery, metal and similar materials, but
excluding dirt, stones, plaster, concrete, building materials, dangerous
materials, such as poisons, acids, caustic or infected materials and animal
offal.
(1992 Code, § 6-36) (Ord. 543A, § 1, passed - -1979)
§ 97.02 TOWN COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE, GARBAGE, AND TRASH.
   (A)   The collection of refuse, garbage, and trash, and a proper system of
disposal of the same shall be undertaken by the town.
   (B)   Each owner, occupant, or lessee of any building, house, or structure
on grounds where refuse, garbage, and trash accumulate, shall provide for the
collection and disposal of refuse, garbage, and trash from his or her premises
at least once a week.
(1992 Code, § 6-37) (Ord. 543A, § 2, passed - -1979)
§ 97.03 CHARGES FOR COLLECTION.
   The town shall charge for the collection and disposal of refuse, garbage,
and trash according to the Fee Schedule in
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 6-38) (Ord. 1205, passed 1-10-2009)
§ 97.04 DELINQUENCY; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges for town collection of refuse, garbage, and trash shall be
billed individually. All bills shall be due and payable within 15 days from the
date of receipt.
   (B)   Bills unpaid 15 days following date of billing shall include a
collection charge as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   Monies collected shall be placed in the Refuse Removal Fund. Monies to
be paid out will include contractor’s fee for refuse removal, partial salaries
of Clerk-Treasurer and Billing Clerk, and also any office supplies necessary in
the issuance and collection of refuse removal bill.
(1992 Code, § 6-39) (Ord. 543A, § 4, passed - -1979)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
51.20
§ 97.05 CLEARING ALLEYS AND STREETS.
   It is the responsibility of the owners, occupants, or tenants of abutting
property to keep all alleys used by any sanitation vehicles clean, orderly, and
passable at all times.
(1992 Code, § 6-40) (Ord. 543A, § 5, passed - -1979)
§ 97.06 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each owner, occupant, or lessee of any building, house, or structure
on grounds where refuse, garbage and trash accumulates shall provide containers
for refuse, garbage, and trash of not more than 20-gallon capacity. Sturdy
plastic bags may be used of not more than 30-gallon capacity.
   (B)   The Town Council may allow the use of special containers for refuse,
garbage, and trash where mechanical means are used for emptying into the truck.
   (C)   The containers shall be of a metal or durable plastic material with
tight-fitting lids or covers and with handles sufficiently strong for workers
to conveniently empty. No container shall, with contents, weigh more than 50
pounds. Sturdy plastic bags may be used as containers.
   (D)   Containers containing garbage shall be kept covered at all times. All
trash containers should be sufficient to prevent the blowing, scattering, or
spreading of trash. The Town Council shall be the final judge of the
sufficiency of the containers.
   (E)   All refuse, garbage, and trash collected by the town shall be in
containers approved by the town.
   (F)   All accumulations of garbage which shall be placed in containers shall
be securely wrapped and the containers must be secured with tight-fitting lids
or covers.
   (G)   All brush, tree limbs, or other like refuse shall be tied in bundles
and shall be in 4-foot lengths and 2 feet in height or less.
   (H)   The charge set forth in §
97.03 per customer limits 5 twenty-gallon containers or 10 sturdy plastic bags
per customer. One bundle of brush, tree limbs, or other like refuse of 4-foot
length and 2 feet in height shall be considered as 1 bag. If any containers are
over and above this limit, the customer will be billed directly by the
contractor.
(1992 Code, § 6-41) (Ord. 543A, § 6, passed - -1979; Am. Ord. 873, passed 1-25-
1994)
§ 97.07 TIME AND PLACE FOR COLLECTION OF REFUSE, GARBAGE, AND TRASH.
   (A)   Refuse, garbage, and trash shall be collected at least once a week.
   (B)   Refuse removal will begin weekly each Thursday at approximately 6:00
a.m. and removal shall be on a once-a-week pick-up basis per residential and
business structures. Also, if a holiday falls on a weekday, then pick-up shall
be 1 day later.
   (C)   The Town Council shall establish all routes for town collection
throughout the town.
(1992 Code, § 6-42) (Ord. 543A, § 7, passed - -1979)
§ 97.08 PLACEMENT OF REFUSE, GARBAGE, AND TRASH FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Containers for refuse, garbage, and trash shall be placed as to be
readily accessible for the removal or emptying by the town or other hauler, and
placed in a manner and a place that the containers will not constitute a public
nuisance in any respect.
   (B)   Where alley collections are to be made, the containers shall be placed
within 5 feet of the alley line at the time and day of collection, but shall
not at any time be placed within the limits of the alley itself. In those areas
where, in the opinion of the Town Council, collection by alley is not practical
or feasible, or in those areas where no alleys exist at all, the containers
shall be placed for collection in compliance with the rules and regulations
that shall be adopted by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 6-43) (Ord. 543A, § 8, passed - -1979)
§ 97.09 ACCUMULATION OF JUNK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The term JUNK PROPERTY as used in this section shall mean any personal
property which gives off obnoxious or offensive odors or which is unsightly and
offensive to the general public or which becomes injurious to the health,
comfort, or property of the residence of the neighborhood or town or general
public.
(Ord. 345, § 1, passed - -1970)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning real estate, or having
possession or control of real estate in the town, to permit or allow the
accumulation of 1 or more articles of “junk property” upon any lot or tract of
land in the town. Any person maintaining, causing, or permitting any of the
above named conditions shall be deemed to be a maintainer or author of a
nuisance.
(Ord. 345, § 2, passed - -1970)
(1992 Code, § 6-44) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify any person who owns, controls, or
possesses real estate in the town and who violates §
97.09, by mailing a written notice to the last known address of the violator,
which notice shall provide that the nuisance shall be abated within 10 days
from the mailing of the notice.
   (B)   If the violator shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance within the
time specified, the Town Council is authorized to direct the Town Marshal to
cause the nuisance to be abated.
   (C)   The expense to the town of abating the nuisance shall be paid by the
town and the expense shall be a lien on the real estate owned, possessed, or
controlled by the violators.
(1992 Code, § 6-45) (Ord. 345, §§ 3, 4, passed - -1970)
§ 97.11 WEED CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning real estate in the town to
suffer, permit, or allow any weeds, thistles, brush, undergrowth, or rank
vegetation of any kind whatsoever to be, remain or grow upon any vacant or
unimproved lot, lots, parcels, or tracts of land, as well as all the weeds
growing on the lawn between the sidewalk and the curb line in front of any real
estate.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person owning, leasing, or controlling any
lots, tracts, or parcels of land or other real estate within the town, to cause
the weeds, thistles, underbrush, or rank vegetation of any kind to be removed.
(1992 Code, § 6-46)
   (C)   New subdivision lots (less than 5 years old) that have not sold from
the original developer of the subdivision nor been leased, shall be exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) herein as long as not more than 90% of the lots in the
subdivision are sold. However, when new subdivision lots are sold, they must
come into compliance with divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
(Am. Ord. 1134, passed 11-9-2004) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.12 WEED INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to make an inspection of all
lots, tracts, parcels of land, or other real estate in the town, on or before
July 15 of each year, or as soon thereafter as he or she may be able so to do.
   (B)   Whenever it is found that any person owning, leasing, or controlling
any lots, tracts, parcels of land, or other real estate has permitted the same
to become overgrown with weeds, thistles, underbrush, or rank vegetation, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to notify the owners, lessees, or
managers of the real estate to remove the weeds, underbrush, or rank vegetation
within 10 days.
   (C)   In the event that the real estate is owned by nonresidents, then
notice shall be served upon their agent, or agents, if any, and if there be
none, by mailing the notice to the last known address of the person owning the
real estate.
   (D)   Notice shall be given pursuant to I.C. 36-7-11.2-11.
   (E)   Upon failure of any person to comply with the order and notice of the
Clerk-Treasurer within the designated time, then the Clerk-Treasurer shall
proceed to cause the weeds, brush, undergrowth, or rank vegetation growing on
the real estate to be removed, and the cost, charges, and expenses shall be
collected as taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of
the town.
(1992 Code, § 6-47)
MANDATORY CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM
§ 97.20 ROLE OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   The Town Council acknowledges the mandatory curbside recycling program
developed by the Solid Waste Management District of St. Joseph County.
(1992 Code, § 6-115) (Res. 98-09-08-01, § 1, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 97.21 CURBSIDE RECYCLING FEES.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that the district has provided the
town curbside recycling fees at a reasonable cost to the residents of the town.
   (B)   The reasonable fees shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 per month, per home, to be billed twice yearly by an outside
company. Senior citizens that have requested the discount shall be charged per
month per home, as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 6-116) (Res. 98-09-08-01, §§ 2, 3, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 97.22 RESIDENTS AFFECTED.
   The Town Council resolves to support and authorize implementation of the
mandatory curbside recycling service within the municipal boundaries of the
town requiring participation by all single family residence and rental
complexes with fewer than 5 units.
(1992 Code, § 6-117) (Res. 98-09-08-01, § 4, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons found in violation of §
97.10 shall be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 for each day the offense continues.
(1992 Code, § 6-45)
   (C)   Any person, upon conviction of a violation of §
97.12, may also be fined as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, and each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1992 Code, § 6-47)
CHAPTER 98: FEE SCHEDULE
   The following schedule contains the fines, fees, and charges for the Town of
New Carlisle, Indiana:
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code    Description                                                             Amount ($) Ord. No.     Date
Section                                                                                                 Passed
        Any person, firm, or corporation who violates a provision of this town
        code, upon conviction, shall be subject to the following penalty:
                                                                                Not
        (1) Fine for the first offense, if paid within 30 days                  exceeding  -            - -
10.99                                                                           $50
(A)                                                                             Not
        (2) Fine for the first violation if not paid within 30 days.            exceeding  -            - -
                                                                                $2,500
                                                                                Not
        (3) Fine for second and subsequent violations                           exceeding  -            - -
                                                                                $7,500
        Violations of code not designated as
        10.99(A), or specifically designated as
        10.99(B):
10.99                                                                           Not
(B)     (1) Fine for the first violation                                        exceeding  -            - -
                                                                                $2,500
                                                                                Not
        (2) Fine for second and subsequent violations                           exceeding  -            - -
                                                                                $7,500
30.02   Incident report fees: duplication of police, case, or other Marshal’s $5 per     819          12-17-
(A)     Department reports, including accident reports                          copy                    1991
30.02   User fee for photocopies                                                $0.10 per  912, § 1    1-23-
(B)                                                                             page                    1996
        Ambulance service rates:
        Category                                                                Per
                                                                                Occurrence
           BLS Non-emergency                                                 $300       1215         6-23-
30.04                                                                                                   2009
(A)        BLS Emergency                                                     $400       1215         6-23-
                                                                                                        2009
           ALS Emergency                                                     $600       1215         6-23-
                                                                                                        2009
           Loaded mileage                                                    $10 per    1215         6-23-
                                                                                mile                    2009
30.06   Public announcement system, rental request, refundable deposit          $100       1076         7-10-
(A)                                                                                                     2001
30.06   Public announcement system, nonrefundable rental fee                    $25        1076         7-10-
(B)                                                                                                     2001
30.07   User fee for vehicle inspections, per vehicle                           $5         1209         4-14-
                                                                                                        2009
34.04   License fee for each day of public fireworks display                    $20 per    1226         6-22-
(B)                                                                             day                     2010
        Violations of §
        34.04:
           First offense                                                     $100       1226         6-22-
34.99                                                                                                   2010
(B)(1)     Second offense                                                    $250       1226         6-22-
                                                                                                        2010
           Third and subsequent offenses                                     $500       1226         6-22-
                                                                                                        2010
34.99   Failure to pay within 30 days, late fee                                 $50        1226         6-22-
(B)(2)                                                                                                  2010
34.99                                                                           Not                     6-22-
(B)(3)  Fire damage from consumer fireworks, fine                               exceeding  1226         2010
                                                                                $2,500
        Violations of §§
        35.01 -
35.99   35.18:
(B)(1)  (a) Fine for demolition                                                 $75 -      934, § 15   2-25-
                                                                                $2,500                  1997
        (b) Fine for all other offenses                                         $75 -      934, § 15   2-25-
                                                                                $1,000                  1997
        Code section civil penalties:
        72.01–
        72.03,
        73.01,
        73.15, Ch. 75 Scheds. II, IV, V, VI;
        90.15,
        90.31,
        91.10–
        91.12,
        91.14–
        91.16,
        91.45,
        92.01,                                                                  See §
36.99   92.16–                                                                10.99(B)   various      various
        92.20,
        93.25,
        93.26,
        94.01–
        94.22,
        93.50–
        93.53,
        94.30–
        94.39,
        97.09,
        97.11,
        97.12,
        130.01, 130.03
37.16   Cumulative Non-Reverting Law Enforcement Training Fund: class fees      $15–$50  917, §§ 1- 4-23-
                                                                                                        1996
        Sewer rates and charges, all Class I users, monthly:
51.03   Treatment Rate per 1,000 gallons                                                                1-16-
(B)(1)  Inside Customers                                                        $11.16     1461; 1467   2024;
(a)     Outside Customers                                                       $12.82                  6-4-
                                                                                                        2024
                                                                                                        8-14-
                                                                                                        2007;
51.03                                                                                                   6-11-
(B)(1)  Base rate, monthly (below):                                                        1173; 1310;  2015;
(b)                                                                                        1461; 1467   1-16-
                                                                                                        2024;
                                                                                                        6-4-
                                                                                                        2024
 
Water Meter Inside Customers Outside Customers
Water Meter       Inside Customers Outside Customers
5/8 in. - 3/4 in. $22.20           $25.50
1 in.             $50.60           $58.15
1-1/4 in.         $79.15           $90.95
1-1/2 in.         $113.35          $130.25
2 in.             $193.15          $221.95
3 in.             $439.15          $504.60
4 in.             $780.35          $896.60
6 in.             $1,746.70        $2,006.95
Outside corporate town boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9%
higher than the rates and charges for customers inside corporate town
boundaries.
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code    Description                                                    Amount ($)  Ord.  Date
Section                                                                            No.   Passed
        Unmetered usage, single family dwelling unit:
                                                                                         1-16-
           Inside customers                                         $72.95      1461; 202 4;
51.03      Outside customers                                        $83.80
(B)( 2)                                                                            1467  6-4-
                                                                                         2024
        Outside corporate town boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than
        the rates and charges for customers inside corporate town boundaries.
                                                                                         10-13-
                                                                                   839;  1992
51.03   Sewer sampling fee, per event                                  $25         1042; 6-27-
(D)                                                                                1461  2000;
                                                                                         1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         8-14-
                                                                                         2007;
                                                                       $2.20656 7  1173; 6-11-
51.03   Sewer rate adjustment for Class I users                        per 1,000   1310; 2015;
(E)(1)                                                                 gallons/    1336; 10-25-
                                                                       month       1461  2016;
                                                                                         1-16-
                                                                                         2024
        Sewer rate adjustment: monthly sewage treatment cost
        adjustment tracking factor charge:
                                                                                         8-14-
                                                                                   1173; 2007;
        Inside Corporate Town Boundaries                               $9.21       1310; 6-11-
51.03      Residential single family dwelling unit, per 1,000 EDUs              1461  2015;
(E)(2)                                                                                   1-16-
                                                                                         2024
        Outside Corporate Town Boundaries
        Outside corporate town boundaries rates and charges are                          1-16-
        approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and charges for      $10.60      1461  2024
        customers inside corporate town boundaries.
           Residential, single family dwelling unit, per 1,000 EDUs
                                                                                         4-26-
51.03   Tap fee prior to connecting to sewage works                    $500        1241; 2011;
(F)                                                                                1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
        Deposit based on water meter size:
           Meter size                                               Deposit           
                                                                                         4-26-
                                                                                   1241; 2011;
           5/8 - 3/4 in.                                            $50         1310; 6-11-
                                                                                   1461  2015;
                                                                                         1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
           1 in.                                                    $50         1241; 2011;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
51.03      1-1/2 in.                                                $75         1241; 2011;
(G)(1)                                                                             1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         6-11-
           1-1/4 in.                                                $75         1310; 2015;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
           2 in.                                                    $100        1241; 2011;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
           3 in.                                                    $175        1241; 2011;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
           4 in.                                                    $300        1241; 2011;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
           6 in.                                                    $400        1241; 2011;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
        Renter and lessee deposit based on meter size:
           Meter size                                               Deposit
                                                                                         4-26-
                                                                                   1241; 2011;
           5/8 - 3/4 in.                                            $75         1310; 6-11-
                                                                                   1461  2015;
                                                                                         1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
51.03      1 in.                                                    $75         1241; 2011;
(G)(2)                                                                             1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         6-11-
           1-1/4 in.                                                $75         1310; 2015;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         4-26-
           1-1/2 in.                                                $75         1241; 2011;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
        Monthly storm water fee:
           Type of Property / ERU                                   Monthly
                                                                       Charge
                                                                                         2-12-
           Multi-family / 0.75                                      $3.75       1265; 2013;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
51.03                                                                                    2024
(H)( 2)                                                                                  2-12-
           Residential / 1.00                                       $5.00       1265; 2013;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
                                                                                         2-12-
           Non-residential / 2.50                                   $12.50      1265; 2013;
                                                                                   1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
        System development charge:
                                                                       System
           Meter size/Meter Ratio                                   Development
                                                                       Charge
           5/8" / 1.0                                               $710        1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           3/4" / 1.5                                               $1,065      1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           1" / 2.5                                                 $1,775      1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           1 ½" / 5.0                                              $3,550      1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
51.03      2" / 8.0                                                 $5,680      1461  1-16-
(I)                                                                                      2024
           3" / 15.0                                                $10,650     1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           4" / 25.0                                                $17,750     1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           6" / 50.0                                                $35,500     1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           8" / 80.0                                                $56,800     1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           10" / 115.0                                              $81,650     1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
           Unmetered / 1.0                                          $710        1461  1-16-
                                                                                         2024
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code    Description                                                            Amount ($)  Ord. No.          Date
Section                                                                                                      Passed
                                                                               Number of                     1-10-
51.04   2 or more dwelling units using single water meter and single bill:     dwelling    750, § 4(a)-(e); 1990;
(E)     billed as single service, quarterly minimum bill                       units x     1310              6-11-
                                                                               $13.88                        2015
        Rate adjustment based on strength and character:
                                                                                                             8-14-
        (1) Suspended solids, per pound in excess of 250 mg/l                                                2007;
           Inside customers                                                 $0.76       1173; 1310 ; 1467 6-11-
           Outside customers                                                $0.87                         2015 ;
                                                                                                             6-4-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-14-
        (2) BOD, per pound in excess of 250 mg/l                                                             2007;
           Inside customers                                                 $1.01       1173; 1310 ; 1467 6-11-
           Outside customers                                                $1.16                         2015 ;
51.07                                                                                                        6-4-
(B)                                                                                                          2024
                                                                                                             8-14-
        (3) Ammonia-nitrogen, per pound in excess of 25 mg/l                                                 2007;
           Inside customers                                                 $5.18       1173; 1310 ; 1467 6-11-
           Outside customers                                                $5.95                         2015 ;
                                                                                                             6-4-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-14-
        (4) Phosphorus, per pound in excess of 10 mg/l                                                       2007;
           Inside customers                                                 $8.86       1173; 1310 ; 1467 6-11-
           Outside customers                                                $10.18                        2015 ;
                                                                                                             6-4-
                                                                                                             2024
51.08   Delinquent sewer rates and charges, penalty for                        10% of      750, § 6         1-10-
(E)                                                                            amount                        1990
51.20   Turn-on charge for delinquent utility bills                            $20         -                 - -
51.21   Wastewater tap fee                                                     $500        994, § 1         8-25-
                                                                                                             1998
        Sump pump/groundwater surcharge, per month:
           Residential properties                                           $500        1202              12- -
51.24                                                                                                        2008
           Commercial properties                                            $1,500      1202              12- -
                                                                                                             2008
51.99   Violations of §§                                                     Not                           1-23-
(B)(2)  51.35–                                                               exceeding   756, § 17        1990
        51.51, per violation                                                   $2,500
        Water rates, minimum charges for use of Cleveland Cliffs water
        facilities:
        Metered Rates per Month                                                Per 1,000
                                                                               Gallons
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        First 2,000 gallons                                                                                  2011 ;
        Inside customers                                                       $5.73       1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $6.58       1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        Next 8,000 gallons                                                                                   2011 ;
        Inside customers                                                       $5.08       1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $5.84       1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
52.01                                                                                                        4-26-
(B)     Next 10,000 gallons                                                                                  2011 ;
        Inside customers                                                       $4.44       1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $5.10       1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        Next 30,000 gallons                                                                                  2011 ;
        Inside customers                                                       $3.19       1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $3.67       1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        All over 50,000 gallons                                                                              2011 ;
        Inside customers                                                       $2.57       1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $2.95       1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
        Outside corporate town boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and
        charges for customers inside corporate town boundaries.
52.01   Water rates for use of SJEC facilities, per 1,000 gallons              $0.67       1479              12-17-
(C)                                                                                                          2024
        Minimum charges for use of Cleveland Cliffs facilities:
                                                                               Minimum
        Size of Meter                                                          Monthly
                                                                               Rate
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        5/8 in. - 3/4 in. meter ; 2,00 gallons allowed                                                       2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $11.46      1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $13.16      1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        1 in. meter; 5,323 gallons allowed                                                                   2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $28.34      1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $32.57      1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        1-1/4 in. meter; 8,178 gallons allowed                                                               2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $42.84      1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $49.24      1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        1-1/2 in. meter; 11,034 gallons allowed                                                              2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $56.69      1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $65.15      1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
52.02                                                                                                        12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
        2 in. meter; 18,732 gallons allowed                                                                  12-29-
        Inside customers                                                       $90.87      1176; 1240 ;      2016;
        Outside customers                                                      $104.41     1340; 1462; 1479  1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        3 in. meter; 43,437 gallons allowed                                                                  2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $171.26     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $196.89     1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        4 in. meter; 86,200 gallons allowed                                                                  2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $285.23     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $327.77     1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        6 in. meter; 197,177 gallons allowed                                                                 2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $570.44     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $655.15     1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
        8 in. meter; 315,488 gallons allowed                                   $874.50                       12-17-
        Inside customers                                                       $1,004.17   1479              2024
        Outside customers
        10 in. meter; 829,733 gallons allowed                                  $2,196.11                     12-17-
       Inside customers                                                       $2,521.19   1479              2024
        Outside customers
        12 in. meter; 1,045,464 gallons allowed                                $2,750.54                     12-17-
       Inside customers                                                       $3,157.60   1479              2024
        Outside customers
       Outside corporate town boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and
        charges for customers inside corporate town boundaries.
        Fire protection service:
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        (A) Municipal hydrants, per hydrant, per annum                                                       2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $666.05     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $765.30     1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        (B) Private hydrants, per hydrant, per annum                                                         2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $666.05     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $765.30     1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
        (C) Private sprinklers:
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
           4-in. connection                                                                               2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $283.50     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $325.75     1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
52.03                                                                                                        12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
           6-in. connection                                                                               2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $666.05     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $765.30     1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
           8-in. connection                                                                               2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $1,174.00   1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $1,348.95   1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
           10-in. connection                                                                              2011;
        Inside customers                                                       $1,840.10   1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        Outside customers                                                      $2,114.25   1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
        Outside corporate town boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and
        charges for customers inside corporate town boundaries.
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
52.04   Municipal fountains, for use of Cleveland Cliffs facilities, annual    $156.45     1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
        charge per fountain                                                                1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
        Tap fees, governmental and non-profit organizations for use of SJEC
        and Cleveland Cliffs facilities:
        Meter size                                                             Minimum
                                                                               rate
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
           5/8-in. to 3/4-in. meter                                         $500        1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
                                                                                           1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
52.05                                                                                                        2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                               Labor and                     4-26-
                                                                               material                      2011;
           1-in. or larger meter                                            costs, but  1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
                                                                               not less    1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                               than $500                     1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
        Collection charge of 10% on the first $3 of unpaid billing and 3% on   10%/3%      489(f)            - -
52.07   the balance of unpaid billing in excess of $3                                                        1978
        Additional service charge for turning off/on water service that is     $10         489(f)            - -
        delinquent                                                                                           1978
52.08   Water meter deposits, minimum charge, all users                        $20         576               - -
                                                                                                             1981
        Shut off/turn on                                                       $30         1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
        Shut off/turn on after hours emergencies                               $60         1240              4-26-
52.10                                                                                                        2011
(A)                                                                            Time and                      4-26-
        Frozen meter charge                                                    cost of new 1240              2011
                                                                               meter
        Check for leaks inside plumbing (faucets, toilets, and the like)       $20         1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
        Residential homeowner meter deposit:
        Meter size                                                             Deposit
           3/4 in.                                                          $50         1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
           1 in.                                                            $50         1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
           1-1/2-in.                                                        $75         1240              4-26-
52.10                                                                                                        2011
(B)(1)     2 in.                                                            $100        1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
           3 in.                                                            $175        1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
           4 in.                                                            $300        1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
           6 in.                                                            $400        1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
        Renters and leases meter deposit:
        Meter size                                                             Deposit
           3/4 in.                                                          $75         1240              4-26-
52.10                                                                                                        2011
(B)(2)     1 in.                                                            $75         1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
           1-1/2 in.                                                        $75         1240              4-26-
                                                                                                             2011
        System development charge:
                                                                               System
           Meter size / Meter ratio                                         Development
                                                                               Charge
                                                                                                             1-16-
           5/8" / 1.0                                                       $650        1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           3/4" / 1.5                                                       $975        1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           1" / 2.5                                                         $1,625      1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           1 ½" / 5.0                                                      $3,250      1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           2" / 8.0                                                         $5,200      1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
52.14                                                                                                        1-16-
           3" / 15.0                                                        $9,750      1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           4" / 25.0                                                        $16,250     1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           6" / 50.0                                                        $32,500     1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           8" / 80.0                                                        $52,000     1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           10" / 115.0                                                      $74,750     1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
           12" / 215.0                                                      $139,750    1479              12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             1-16-
           Unmetered / 1.0                                                  $650        1462 ; 1479       2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
52.15   Hydrant water use permit application fee                               $50         1464              4-2-
(C)                                                                                                          2024
52.15   Security deposit for 3-inch meter w/RPZ                                $3,500      1464              4-2-
(D)                                                                                                          2024
52.15   Failure to submit meter readings by fifth of each month                $150        1464              4-2-
(G)                                                                                                          2024
52.15   Fee for tampering with meter, chamber, or hydrant                      $100        1464              4-2-
(H)                                                                                                          2024
52.15   Late payment fee                                                       $10         1464              4-2-
(J)                                                                                                          2024
52.15   Each day of violation of §
(P)     52.15 and each instance of illegal tapping, tampering or damaging of
        town water supply source or fire hydrant:
          First offense                                                    $500        1464              4-2-
                                                                                                             2024
          Second Offense                                                   $1,000      1464              4-2-
                                                                                                             2024
          Third Offense                                                    $1,500      1464              4-2-
                                                                                                             2024
        Utility fee for inspection and testing, per device:
52.28      1 in., 1-1/2 in., or smaller                                     $50         894, § 9-65.12   2-14-
(L)                                                                                                          1995
           2 in. and larger                                                 $75         894, § 9-65.12   2-14-
                                                                                                             1995
        Industrial water users, rates and charges:
           Basic combined metered monthly rates, Cleveland Cliffs (Tek) and
        Cleveland Cliffs (Kote):
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
              0-15 million gallons (min)                                 $76,974.32  1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
                                                                                           1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
52.41                                                                                                        2024;
(A)                                                                                                          12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
              Over 15 million gallons, per 1,000 gallons                 $0.69       1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
                                                                                           1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
           Minimum monthly charge of $76,974.32 divided as follows:
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
              Cleveland Cliffs (Tek)                                     $39,909.32  1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
                                                                                           1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
52.41                                                                                                        12-17-
(B)                                                                                                          2024
                                                                                                             8-28-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
              Cleveland Cliffs (Kote)                                    $37,065.00  1176; 1240 ;      12-29-
                                                                                           1340; 1462; 1479  2016;
                                                                                                             1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
        St. Joseph Energy Center LLC billing:
                                                                                                             11-10-
                                                                                                             2015;
                                                                                                             7-11-
52.41      Base minimum rate per month plus                                 $33,771     1317; 1344; 1462; 2017;
(C)                                                                                        1479              1-16-
                                                                                                             2024;
                                                                                                             12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
           Metered rate, per 1,000 gallons of water delivered               $0.24
        AWS monthly billing:
           Base minimum rate per month                                      $34,475.00  1479              12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
52.41      Metered rate, per 1,000 gallons of water delivered               $0.67       1479              12-17-
(D)                                                                                                          2024
        The monthly base charge for AWS will become effective on January 1,
        2025, and continue through September 30, 2025. Thereafter the monthly
        base charge will be increased pursuant to the contract between AWS and
        the town.
        GM monthly billing:
           Base minimum rate per month plus                                 $35,819.00  1479              12-17-
                                                                                                             2024
52.41      Metered rate, per 1,000 gallons of water delivered               $0.67       1479              12-17-
(E)                                                                                                          2024
        The monthly base charge will become effective on January 1, 2025. GM
        will also be subject to a take or pay amount of usage that is set
        forth in the agreement between GM and the town.
        Minimum electricity charges, meter deposits:
           For ordinary residential use                                     $50         1046              9-12-
                                                                                                             2000
           For trailer or mobile home use                                   $50         1046              9-12-
                                                                                                             2000
           For commercial use                                               $100        1046              9-12-
                                                                                                             2000
           For industrial use                                               $100        1046              9-12-
53.02                                                                                                        2000
        Minimum electricity charges, meter deposits:
           For electric home use                                            $80         1046              9-12-
                                                                                                             2000
           For electric heated apartments                                   $80         1046              9-12-
                                                                                                             2000
           For non-owner occupied property                                  $100        1046              9-12-
                                                                                                             2000
           For non-owner occupied property with electric heat               $160        1046              9-12-
                                                                                                             2000
53.03   Personal notification of past-due bill                                 $7.50       533               - -
                                                                                                             1979
        Disconnection charge for non-payment                                   $27.50      533               - -
53.04                                                                                                        1979
        Reconnection charge                                                    See §
                                                                               51.20
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
        Electricity rate, “R” Domestic electric service                    11.84 cents                   4-26-
53.05      All kwhrs used per month                                         per kwhr    1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(B)        Monthly customer charge per meter                                $17.20 per  1431              3-14-
                                                                               month                         2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
53.05      Minimum charge: monthly customer charge plus energy charges                  1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(C)                                                                                        1431              3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
        Electricity rate, “C” Commercial and small power service:          12.17 cents                   4-26-
53.06      All kwhrs used per month                                         per kwhr    1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(B)        Monthly customer charge per meter                                $33.40 per  1431              3-14-
                                                                               month                         2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
53.06      Minimum charge: monthly customer charge plus energy charges                  1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(C)                                                                                        1431              3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                               15.99 cents                   8-14-
        Electricity rate, “P” capacity power service:                      per kwhr                      2007;
           First 2,500 kwhrs used per month                                 14.37 cents                   4-26-
53.07      Next 7,500 kwhrs used per month                                  per kwhr    1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(B)(1)     All over 10,000 kwhrs used per month                             12.75 cents 1431              3-14-
           Monthly customer charge per meter                                per kwhr                      2017;
                                                                               $68.90 per                    11-15-
                                                                               month                         2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
53.07   Minimum charge: monthly customer charge plus energy charges                        1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(E)                                                                                        1431              3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
        Electric rate, “M” Municipal electric service, per Kwhr            10.98 cents                   4-26-
53.09      All kwhrs used per month                                         per kwhr    1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(B)        Monthly customer charge                                          $39.85 per  1431              3-14-
                                                                               month                         2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
53.09   Minimum charge: monthly customer charge plus energy charges                        1174; 1242; 1343; 2011;
(C)                                                                                        1431              3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
        Electric rate, “STL” street lighting service:                                  1174; 1242; 1311; 2011;
                                                                                           1343              6-11-
                                                                                                             2015;
                                                                                                             3-14-
                                                                                                             2017

           Decorative street lamps - maintenance fee                           $17.50
53.10      50 watt LED                                                         $11.55
(B)        65 watt LED                                                         $11.55
           85 watt IND                                                         $11.55
           175 watt MV                                                         $11.55
           175 watt MH                                                         $11.55
           150 watt HPS                                                        $11.55
           250 watt MV                                                         $14.85
           250 watt MH                                                         $14.85
           250 watt HPS                                                        $14.85
           400 watt MV                                                         $20.35
           400 watt MH                                                         $20.35
           400 watt HPS                                                        $20.35
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
53.10      Minimum charge                                                   None        1174; 1242; 1311; 6-11-
(C)                                                                                        1343; 1431        2015 ;
                                                                                                             3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
        Electric rate, “SL” security lighting service:                                 1174; 1242; 1311; 6-11-
                                                                                           1343; 1431        2015 ;
                                                                                                             3-14-
53.11                                                                                                        2017;
(C)                                                                                                          11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
           Rate, 50 watt LED, per unit, per month                           $11.55
           50 watt LED                                                      $11.55
           65 watt LED                                                      $11.55
           150 watt MV                                                      $11.55
           150 watt HPS                                                     $11.55
           175 watt MH
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011;
                                                                                                             4-14-
                                                                                                             2015;
                                                                                                             6-11-
                                                                                           1174, Appx A;     2015:
                                                                                           1242; 1306; 1311; 12-8-
53.12   Rate adjustment for rates R, C, P, G, and M, per KWH per month         $0.000000   1319 ; 1335;      2015 ;
                                                                                           1343;1347; 1383;  10-25-
                                                                                           1431              2016;
                                                                                                             3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             8-22-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             9-17-
                                                                                                             2019;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             8-14-
                                                                                                             2007;
53.13   The fuel cost adjustment has been discontinued under the current                   1174, Appx A;     4-26-
        wholesale power agreement                                                          1242; 1431        2011 ;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
53.15   Full domestic service, monthly minimum charge per meter installed      $3.50       -                 - -
(B)
53.17   Commercial lighting rates, monthly minimum, per meter                  $1.50       -                 - -
(A)
        Commercial power:
        (A) 5 HP or less, minimum charge, per HP/month                         $1.00       -                 - -
53.18                                                                          $0.50 per
        (B) 5 HP or more, monthly demand charge                                HP of       -                 - -
                                                                               maximum
                                                                               demand
53.19   Delinquency fee: 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3 on   10%/3%      -                 - -
        each monthly bill
53.22   Late payments, shutoff notices                                         See §      -                 - -
                                                                               51.20
        Attachments to utility poles, fees:
                                                                                                             7-22-
                                                                                                             2003 ;
        (A) Telephone attachment, per attachment                               $15         1113 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             7-22-
                                                                                                             2003 ;
        (B) Cablevision attachment, per attachment                             $13         1114 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
        (C) Electric Department reconnect/disconnect charge standard service - $30         1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
        during office hours                                                                                  2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
        (D) Electric Department reconnect/disconnect charge - after hours      $92.25      1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
        (E) Electric deposits:
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
           Residential homeowner deposit                                    $50         1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
           Residential renter deposit                                       $50         1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
53.29      Residential homeowner deposit electric heat                      $160        1431              11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
           Residential renter deposit electric heat                         $160        1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
           Commercial single-phase 120/240                                  $200        1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
           Commercial three-phase                                           $200        1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
        (G) Meter test charge - every 2 years as required:                     Free        1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
           Single-phase meter, if more frequent than every 2 years          $50*        1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
                                                                                                             4-26-
                                                                                                             2011 ;
           Three-phase meter                                                $200*       1242 ; 1343; 1431 3-14-
                                                                                                             2017;
                                                                                                             11-15-
                                                                                                             2022
           *Fee is refunded if meter is off more than 3%
53.30   NSF check fee                                                          $25         1115              7-22-
                                                                                                             2003
        Meter tampering
                                                                               Actual                        4-26-
           First offense                                                    cost, see   1242              2011
                                                                               53.33 
53.33                                                                          Same as
                                                                               first
           Subsequent offense                                               offense     1242              4-26-
                                                                               plus $100                     2011
                                                                               dis-
                                                                               connection
        Wastewater discharge permits:
           Base fee                                                         $500        802, d(3)         5-14-
54.05                                                                                                        1991
(C)        Additional sampling point, additional                            $100        802, d(3)         5-14-
                                                                                                             1991
           Annual fee for each industrial discharger                        $1,912      802, d(3)         5-14-
                                                                                                             1991
54.10   False statements and the like or tampering with monitoring device or   Not more    755, § 1(i)      1-23-
(F)     method, civil penalty                                                  than $2,500                   1990
        Fines for violations of Title VII:
        (A) Improper parking                                                   $10         399-A             8-26-
70.99                                                                                                        1986
        (B) Non-moving traffic violations                                      $5          399-A             8-26-
                                                                                                             1986
        (C) Moving traffic violations:
           (1) Stop sign violation                                          $20         399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
           (2) Improper passing                                             $20         399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
           (3) Speeding, up to and including 15 mph over limit              $20         399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
           (4) Speeding, in excess of 15, not exceeding 25 mph over limit   $25         399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
           (5) Speeding, in excess of 25 mph over limit                     $40         399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
           (6) Yield sign violation                                         $20         399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
           (7) Improper U-turn                                              $20         399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
           (8) All other moving violations                                  $5          399, § 1         - -
                                                                                                             1978
71.99   Violations of                                                          $25-50      1026              10-26-
(B)     71.02, using or operating engine brakes within the town limits                                       1999
        Violation of any provision of Ch. 72:
           If paid within 30 days                                           $50         -                 - -
72.99                                                                          $2,500,
           If paid after 30 days                                            plus towing -                 - -
                                                                               and storage
                                                                               costs
        Golf cart annual registration fee, each cart                           $25         1218              10-27-
73.52                                                                                                        2009
        Single-use or temporary permit registration fee                        $10         1218              10-27-
                                                                                                             2009
        Violations of §
        73.01:
73.99      If paid within 30 days                                           $50         -                 - -
(B)                                                                            $2,500,
           If paid after 30 days                                            plus towing -                 - -
                                                                               and storage
                                                                               costs
        Violations of §§
        73.15,
        73.26–
        73.29,
73.99   73.34, and/or
(C)     73.35:
           If paid within 30 days                                           $50         -                 - -
                                                                               $2,500,
           If paid after 30 days                                            plus towing -                 - -
                                                                               and storage
                                                                               costs
        Violations of §§
        73.50–
        73.61:
73.99      First violation                                                  $25         1218              10-27-
(D)                                                                                                          2009
           Second violation                                                 $50         1218              10-27-
                                                                                                             2009
           Third violation                                                  $250        1218              10-27-
                                                                                                             2009
Ch. 74, Violations of stop sign provisions:
Sch. I     If paid within 30 days                                           $50         -                 - -
        Violations of yield right-of-way signs:
           If paid within 30 days                                           $50         -                 - -
Ch. 74,                                                                        $2,500,
Sch. II    If paid after 30 days                                            plus towing -                 - -
                                                                               and storage
                                                                               costs
Ch. 74,                                                                                                      8-14-
Sch. V, Violation of the speed limit for South Harris Street                   $50         634               1984
(B)
Ch. 74,                                                                        See §
Sched.  Violations of weight limits                                            10.99       -                 - -
VI
        Violations of No parking areas:
        (C)(3) Parking in disabled parking stall without proper identification $50         948, § 1         9-23-
                                                                                                             1997
Ch. 75, (D) Parking in restricted area of Bray Street (Front Street)           Not more    558               - -
Sched.                                                                         than $25                      1980
I       (G) Parking in restricted area of Bray Street (Ben Street- Dunn Road)  $10         919, §§ 1 - 4   6-11-
                                                                                                             1996
        (H) Parking in restricted area of Zigler Street                        $10         972, §§ 1, 2    3-24-
                                                                                                             1998
Ch. 75,                                                                        See §
Sched.  Violation of 2-hour parking areas                                      10.99(B)    -                 - -
II
Ch. 75, Semi-tractor/trailer and/or commercial vehicle parking in Memorial     See §                        9-14-
Sched.  Park lot                                                               10.99(B)    863, §§ 1-3     1993
III
Ch. 75, Violations of loading zone provisions:                                             -                 - -
Sched.     Fine, if paid within 30 days                                     $50         -                 - -
IV         Fine if not paid within 30 days                                  $2,500      -                 - -
Ch. 75,                                                                        See §
Sched.  Violations of disabled parking                                         10.99(B)    -                 - -
V
Ch. 75,                                                                        See §
Sched.  Violations of municipal parking lot regulations                        10.99(B)    -                 - -
VI
                                                                                                             - -
        (A) Request for use of gazebo or shelters in town parks, deposit       $75         1197 ; 1470       2008 ;
90.15                                                                                                        7-9-
                                                                                                             2024
        (B) Refund after satisfactory inspection of premises                   $25         1197              - -
                                                                                                             2008
90.31   Operation of snowmobile/off-road vehicle within town cemetery or parks See §      1197              - -
                                                                               10.99(B)                      2008
90.47   Charges for town cemetery (below):                                                 1207              2-24-
(A)                                                                                                          2009
 
 Cemetery General Fund Perpetual Care Total
                                    Cemetery General Fund Perpetual Care Total
Opening and closing of adult
graves:
   Weekdays                      $750                  n/a            $750
   Weekends/ holidays            $1,100                n/a            $1,100
Opening and closing of stillborn or
cremation graves (vault size 2 feet
by 4 feet):
   Weekdays                      $300                  n/a            $300
   Weekends/ holidays            $500                  n/a            $500
Sale of full lot (5 graves)         $1,250                $1,250         $2,500
Sale of half lot (2 graves)         $600                  $600           $1,200
Sale of single grave (designated    $250                  $250           $500
section)
Sale of stillborn grave (designated $100                  $100           $200
section)
 
 
Code Section Description                       Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
90.47(B)     Charge for transfer of ownership, $25        1119     10-14-2003
             per transaction
90.54        Inspection fee for foundation     $20        1110     5-13-2003
             inspection
             Penalty for speed in excess of 10 See §
90.55(B)     mph on cemetery grounds; contact  10.99(B)   -        - -
             with funeral processions
90.56        Penalty for vandalism in cemetery See §     -        - -
                                               10.99(A)
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code    Description                                           Amount  Ord. Date
Section                                                       ($)     No.  Passed
90.57   Penalty for gratuity to cemetery attendants           See §  -    - -
                                                              10.99
        Violations of                                         See §
90.99   90.15 and                                             10.99
        90.31                                                 (B)
        Excavations, permit fees:
        (A) Utility repairs, services, extensions:
           (1) New or replacement services:
        Number of Services
              1 or 2                                    $225    -    - -
              3 through 6                               $250    -    - -
              7 through 12                              $275    -    - -
                                                              $300
              More than 12                              per     -    - -
                                                              service
91.31      (2) New mains, main repairs, extensions and the
        like:
        Length of Trench
              Up to 100 feet                            $225    -    - -
              100 feet to 250 feet                      $250    -    - -
              250 feet to 750 feet                      $275    -    - -
              Over 750 feet                             $300    -    - -
        (B) Other excavations:
        Size
              Up to 50 cubic yards                      $225    -    - -
              50 to 333 cubic yards                     $250    -    - -
              Over 333 cubic yards                      $300    -    - -
        Penalty for violation of div. (C), time frame for     See §
91.32   restoration and certification or excavation           10.99
                                                              (A)
91.45   Permit fee to remove tree(s) within tree lawn or      $10     -    - -
        right-of- way
91.99   Violations of §§                                    See §
(B)     91.10–                                              10.99   -    - -
        91.16, fine                                           (B)
91.99   Violations of §§                                    See §
(C)     91.25–                                              10.99   -    - -
        91.32, fine                                           (B)
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code    Description                                              Amount  Ord.    Date
Section                                                          ($)     No.     Passed
91.99   Violation of §                                          See §
(D)     91.45, failure to obtain permit for tree removal, fine   10.99   -       - -
                                                                 (A)
92.99   Violation of §                                          $1–$5 -       - -
(B)     92.01, fine
        Violation of §§                                                976, § 4-14-
        92.15–                                                 $50     1       1998
92.99   92.20, fine
(C)                                                              Not to  976, § 4-14-
           Fine not paid within allotted time                 exceed  1       1998
                                                                 $1,000
93.41   Temporary permit fee for repair/parts scavenging of      $10     951, § 11-25-
        wrecked, junked, or abandoned vehicle                            2       1997
93.99   Violations of §§                                       See §
(B)     93.01–                                                 10.99   -       - -
        93.07, fine                                              (B)
93.99   Violations of §§                                       See §
(C)     93.25–                                                 10.99   -       - -
        93.27, fine                                              (B)
93.99   Violations of §§                                       See §
(D)     93.40–                                                 10.99   -       - -
        93.42, fine                                              (B)
93.99   Violations of §§                                       See §
(E)     93.50–                                                 10.99   -       - -
        93.53, fine                                              (B)
        Possession/harboring a wild animal in violation of §    See §
94.21   94.21                                                    10.99   -       - -
                                                                 (A)
94.30   Performing animal license, for exhibition, per day       $25     1154    9-12-
                                                                                 2006
94.33   Dangerous animal/attack dog permit: nonrefundable appeal $25     1154    9-12-
(A)     fee on determination of “dangerous animal”                           2006
        Annual fees regarding animals:
           Each altered dog or cat, license                   $0      1412    7-7-
                                                                                 2021
           Each unaltered dog or cat, license                 $0      1412    7-7-
                                                                                 2021
           Replacement tag                                    $0      1412    7-7-
                                                                                 2021
                                                                                 9-12-
           Pet shop permit                                    $100    1154;   2006;
94.36                                                                    1412    7-7-
                                                                                 2021
                                                                                 9-12-
           Breeder permit, except for dangerous animal/attack $50     1154;   2006;
        dog                                                              1412    7-7-
                                                                                 2021
                                                                                 9-12-
           Dangerous animal/attack dog breeder permit         $200    1154;   2006;
                                                                         1412    7-7-
                                                                                 2021
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code       Description                                        Amount  Ord.    Date
Section                                                       ($)     No.     Passed
                                                                              9-12-
              Dangerous animal/attack dog permit (fee, per $100    1154;   2006;
           animal)                                                    1412    7-7-
94.36                                                                         2021
(Cont’d)                                                                    9-12-
              Performing animal license (per day)          $100    1154;   2006;
                                                                      1412    7-7-
                                                                              2021
           Fines for animal violations:
           (1) Violation of §§
           94.02–
           94.04,                                             See §
           94.06–                                           10.99   -       - -
           94.08,                                             (A)
           94.10,
           94.12, or
           94.13
           (2) Violation of §                                See §
           94.02(E)                                           10.99   -       - -
                                                              (A)
           (3), (4) Violation of §
           94.19 or §
           94.20:
                                                              See §
              First offense                                10.99   -       - -
                                                              (A)
                                                              See §
              Each subsequent offense                      10.99   -       - -
94.99(C)                                                      (A)
          (5) Violation of §
           94.21:
                                                              See §
              First offense                                10.99   -       - -
                                                              (A)
                                                              See §
              Each subsequent offense                      10.99   -       - -
                                                              (A)
           (6) Violation of §                                See §
           94.30–                                           10.99   -       - -
           94.32                                              (A)
           (7) Violation of §                                See §
           94.33, fine                                        10.99   -       - -
                                                              (A)
           (8) Violation of any provision of Ch. 94 not
           specified:
                                                              See §
              First offense                                10.99   -       - -
                                                              (A)
                                                              See §
              Each subsequent offense                      10.99   -       - -
                                                              (A)
                                                              Not
95.07(C)   Intimidation in fair housing, fine                 more    963, § 1-27-
                                                              than    2       1998
                                                              $1,000
                                                              See §
96.99(A)   Violations of Ch. 96 not otherwise addressed       10.99   -       - -
                                                              (B)
                                                              $100,           12-19-
96.99(C)   Third false alarm within 1 year                    plus    1059    2000
                                                              costs
           Subsequent or repeat violation of the same         $100,           12-19-
96.99(D)   violation within 1 year                            plus    1059    2000
                                                              costs
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code    Description                                            Amount ($)   Ord. No.                   Date
Section                                                                                                Passed
96.99   Any subsequent violation of the same violation within  $500, plus   1059                       12-19-
(E)     1 year                                                 costs                                   2000
                                                               Not to                                  1-10-
97.03   Refuse collection charges, per month, residential and  exceed       1205 ; 1471                2009 ;
        commercial                                             $16.75                                  7-23-
                                                                                                       2024
97.04   Bills not paid within 15 days of date of billing,      10% of net   543A, § 4                 - -
        collection charge                                      bill                                    1979
        Curbside recycling fees:
97.21      Regular charge per month, per home (billed twice $2.70        Res. 98-09- 08-01, §§ 2, 9-8-
(B)     yearly)                                                                                        1998
           Senior discount, charged monthly, per home       $2.25        Res. 98-09- 08-01, §§ 2, 9-8-
                                                                                                       1998
97.99   Violation of §                                        Not less     -                          - -
(B)     97.10, each day                                        than $25
97.99   Violation of §                                        No more than -                          - -
(C)     97.12                                                  $25
110.02  Business permit, application fee                       $5           356                        - -
        License/permit fees:
           Application fee                               See §
                                                               110.02
           Dog or cat license                            See §
                                                               94.36
           Dog or cat replacement tags                   See §
                                                               94.36
           Dog or cat (spayed) license                   See §
                                                               94.36
110.05     Itinerant merchant                            See §
                                                              110.42
           Peddler                                       See §
                                                               110.42
           Solicitor                                     See §
                                                               110.42
           Parades, carnivals, circuses                  See code §
                                                               91.01
           Restaurant license                            See §
                                                               110.22(C)
           Tree lawn                                     See §
                                                               91.45
                                                                                                       12-9-
110.06  User fee for fingerprint card                          $5           958, §§ 1-5; 1422        1997;
(A)                                                                                                    2-15-
                                                                                                       2022
110.06  User fee for criminal history checks                   $10          958, §§ 1-5              12-9-
(B)                                                                                                    1997
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code       Description                                              Amount    Ord.    Date
Section                                                             ($)       No.     Passed
           Restaurant operating license, application fee            $3.00     241, § - -
110.22                                                                        2B      1963
              If application is on or after June 1               $1.50
110.42     Permit application fee, transient merchants or           $10       929, § 12-17-
           solicitors                                                         1       1996
           Violations of §§
           110.21 or                                                See §    241, § - -
110.99(B)  110.22, or                                               10.99(B)  69      1973
           110.20–
           110.29
           Violations of §§                                       See §    929, § 12-17-
110.99(C)  110.40–                                                10.99(B)  1       1996
           110.44
130.02     Spitting on sidewalks and public places, fine            See §    -       - -
                                                                    10.99(B)
130.99(B)  Parent, guardian or custodian cited under §             See §    -       - -
           130.01(D)                                                10.99(B)
           Violations of §
130.99(C)  130.02:
              First offense                                      $10-$25   -       - -
              Second offense                                     $25-$50   -       - -
130.99(D)  Violations of 130.03                                               1232    1-11-
                                                                                      2011
              First offense                                      $250      1232    1-11-
                                                                                      2011
              Second offense                                     $500      1232    1-11-
                                                                                      2011
              Third and every subsequent offense                 $750      1232    1-11-
                                                                                      2011
              Late fee for failure to make payment within 30 days$50       1232    1-11-
                                                                                      2011
           Permit fees, generally:
           Building Permit Fees:
                 1 foot to 100 square feet, permit fee        $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Each additional 100 square feet, permit fee  $3        783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                                                                    $5 (per           9-25-
                 Anything greater than 2,000 sq. ft., permit f100 sq.   783     1990
                                                                    ft.)
              Each re-inspection                                 $25       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Each additional final inspection                   $50       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              A remodeling permit shall be the same cost as a construction
           permit.
              Re-roofing permit                                  $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Re-siding permit                                   $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
           Electrical Permit Fees:                                                     
                                                                              783;    9-25-
              Temporary service for construction (all amperage)  $150      1236;   1990;
                                                                              1431    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                                                                                      3-22-
              Minimum permit                                     $30       1236    2011;
                                                                                      11-15-
                                                                                      2022
              Meter service (replace, repair, temporary)         $20       1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
              Mobile home                                        $20       1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                                                                                      9-25-
              Circuits (new and replaced)                        $5 each   783;    1990;
                                                                              1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
              Main service (new and replaced - includes circuits)
                 For every amp 200 amp over 600 amp           $25       1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 100 amp                                      $100      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 200 amp                                      $125      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 400 amp                                      $150      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 600 amp/more                                 $175      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
              Plus each sub-panel (includes circuits)
                 For every 200 amp over 600 amp               $25       1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
150.009(A)       60 amp                                       $25       1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 100 amp                                      $100      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 200 amp                                      $125      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 400 amp                                      $150      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                 600 amp/more                                 $175      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
              License new/renewal                                $150      1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                                                                                      9-25-
              Each re-inspection                                 $25       783;    1990;
                                                                              1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                                                                                      9-25-
              Each additional final inspection                   $50       783;    1990;
                                                                              1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
                                                                                      9-25-
              Swimming pool permit (electrical)                  $10       783;    1990;
                                                                              1236    3-22-
                                                                                      2011
           Mechanical Permit Fees:
              Space heater, electric, gas, or oil (30,000 BTU or $10       783     9-25-
           more)                                                                      1990
              Warm-air furnaces and unit heater (as above):
                 60,000 to 300,000 BTU input, first           $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Second unit                                  $5        783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 More than 300,000 BTU input                  $20       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Air conditioning, central, electric:
                 Less than 5 tons                             $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 5 to 10 tons                                 $20       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Over 10 tons                                 $40       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Water chillers                               $75       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Ventilation and exhaust systems:
                 Less than 500 CFM capacity                   $5        783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 500 to 1,500 CFM capacity                    $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                                                                    $1 (per
                 Over 1,500 CFM                               CFM or    783     9-25-
                                                                    fraction          1990
                                                                    thereof)
           Refrigeration - engine driven, gas fired, or oil cooling
           equipment:
                 1 to 5 horsepower                            $15 each  783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 6 to 10 horsepower                           $25 each  783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 More than 10 horsepower                      $40 each  783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Incinerators:
                 5 cubic feet or less                         $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                                                                    $1 (per           9-25-
                 More than 5 cubic feet                       cubic     783     1990
                                                                    foot)
              Wood stove                                         $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Rooftop combination furnace and air-conditioning
           units:
                 60,000 to 300,000 BTUs (each):
                    Up to 7-1/2 tons                       $50       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                    Over 7-1/2 tons                        -------   783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Heat pumps:
150.009(A)       1,000 to 60,000 BTU input - first unit       $15       783     9-25-
(Cont’d)                                                                            1990
                 Each additional unit                         $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Over 60,000 BTUs, under 7-1/2 tons inclusive $40       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                    Over 7-1/2 tons                        $75       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Earth-coupled water source                   $50       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Boilers, steam or hot water:
                 60,000 to 300,000 BTUs:
                 First unit                                   $20       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                    Second unit and each additional unit   $15       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 More than 300,000 BTUs (each)                $50       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
              Through-wall combination air conditioning and
           heating:
                 First unit                                   $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Each additional unit                         $5        783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
                 Solar heat units                             $50       783     9-25-
                                                                                      1990
 
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code       Description                                                                    Amount Ord. Date
Section                                                                                   ($)    No.  Passed
           Air handlers:
                 400 CFM to 2,500 CFM                                               $25    783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
                 Over 2,500 CFM                                                     $60    783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Duct and register:
                 Change fee                                                         $10    783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
                 Each additional register or location change                        $2     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Gas piping (distribution of piping to equipment) to be included on permit:
                 Each gas piping system (1-4 outlets)                               $3     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
                 Each gas piping system (5 or more), per outlet                     $1     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
                 Each re-inspection                                                 $25    783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
           Plumbing Permit Fees:
              Residential:
                 5 traps or less                                                    $10    783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
150.009(A)       Over 5 traps                                                       $2     783  9-25-
(Cont’d)                                                                                each        1990
              Commercial:
                 5 traps or less                                                    $20    783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
                 Each additional trap                                               $2     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Water softener (each)                                                    $6     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Each building, sewer or water                                            $9     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Each trailer park sewer                                                  $6     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Each drain within building for rainwater systems                         $4     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Each water heater and/or vent                                            $6     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Installation, alteration or repair of water piping and/or water treating $6     783  9-25-
           equipment                                                                                  1990
              Repair or alteration of drainage or vent piping                          $4     783  9-25-
                                                                                                      1990
              Each lawn sprinkler system on any one meter, including backflow protectio$18    783  9-25-
           devices thereof                                                                            1990
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code       Description                                                                      Amount Ord. Date
Section                                                                                     ($)    No.  Passed
           Vacuum breakers or backflow protection devices on tanks, vats and the like or
           for installation on unprotected plumbing fixtures, including necessary water
           piping:
                 1 to 4 heads (each)                                                  $4     783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
                 5 or more heads (each)                                               $1     783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
              Fire protection sprinkler system:
                 0 to 4 heads                                                         $16    783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
                 30 to 50 heads                                                       $31    783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
                 More than 50 heads                                                   $44    783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
              Each manhole, drywell and catch basin                                      $10    783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
              Gas tanks and pumps                                                        $10    783  9-25-
150.009(A)                                                                                              1990
(Cont’d)    Each re-inspection                                                         $25    783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
              Each additional final inspection                                           $50    783  9-25-
                                                                                                        1990
           Miscellaneous Permit Fees:
              Full re-inspection, all inspectors                                         [-]    -    - -
              Each re-inspection for commercial and industrial projects, requiring all   $50    -    - -
           building and utility inspectors
              Elevator installation, each                                                $10    -    - -
              Building classification change                                             $2     -    - -
              Wrecking and demolition:
                 Residential                                                          $20    -    - -
                 Commercial, per story                                                $40    -    - -
              Moving of a building:
                 1 story, over public streets or alleys                               $75    -    - -
                 2 stories or more over public streets or alleys                      $125   -    - -
              Parking lots:
                 For hard surfacing of parking lots (including new and repaving), per $10    -    - -
           square feet
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code       Description                                                         Amount    Ord.    Date
Section                                                                        ($)       No.     Passed
           Sign permits
                 Fascia marquee or canopy under 10 square feet           $10       891, § 11-8-
                                                                                         2       1994
                 Other signs/display areas as follows:
                    11 to 100 square feet                             $25       891, § 11-8-
                                                                                         2       1994
                    Over 100 square feet                              $50       891, § 11-8-
                                                                                         2       1994
              Temporary signs:
                 First 30 days                                           $10       783     9-25-
150.009(A)                                                                                       1990
(Cont’d)       Additional 30 days, each extension                      $10       783     9-25-
                                                                                                 1990
              Sidewalks, decks, porches and driveways (asphalt and concrete
           only):
                 1 to 100 square feet                                    $5        944, § 7-22-
                                                                                         1       1997
                                                                               $1 (per
                 Over 100 square feet                                    100       944, § 7-22-
                                                                               square    1       1997
                                                                               feet)
              Fences                                                        $5        835     - -
                                                                                                 1992
                                                                               $20 per   947, § - -
150.027(D) Cash bond fee, sidewalk construction                                lineal    1       1997
                                                                               foot
                                                                               Not less
           Violations of §§                                                  than      706, § 9-5-
150.999(B) 150.001–                                                          $300, no  20      1990
           150.028                                                             more than
                                                                               $500
           Violations of §§                                                  Not less
150.999(C) 150.080–                                                          than $25, 584, § - -
           150.097 and as described in §                                      no more   19      1981
           150.999(C)                                                          than $500
           Zoning violation, all residential districts:
                                                                               Not less  1221,   1-26-
              First citation                                                than $50  Art. 14 2010
                                                                                         (a)
                                                                                         1221,   1-26-
152.441       Second citation, minimum                                      $100      Art. 14 2010
                                                                                        (a)
                                                                                         1221,   1-26-
              Third citation, minimum                                       $200      Art. 14 2010
                                                                                         (a)
              Each additional, not to exceed an increase of $300 in previous fine, to 1221,   1-26-
           max not to exceed $2,500                                                      Art. 14 2010
                                                                                         (a)
 
Code Section Description Amount ($) Ord. No. Date Passed
Code       Description                                                   Amount ($)      Ord.  Date
Section                                                                                  No.   Passed
           Zoning violation, all commercial/town center districts, all
           industrial districts:
152.442                                                                  Not less than   1221, 1-26-
              First citation                                          $50             Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(b)
                                                                                         1221, 1-26-
              Second citation, minimum                                $100            Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(b)
152.442                                                                                  1221, 1-26-
(Cont’d)    Third citation, minimum                                 $200            Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(b)
              Each additional, not to exceed an increase of $300 in previous fine, to 1221, 1-26-
           max not to exceed $2,500, per day violation is uncorrected                    Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(b)
           All wireless telecommunications facilities, violations of §
           152.293(A)(7) or (A)(9), regarding signs or lights:
                                                                                         1221, 1-26-
              First citation                                          $100            Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(c)
                                                                                         1221, 1-26-
              Second day                                              $100-$150       Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(c)
                                                                                         1221, 1-26-
152.443       Third day                                               $100-$200       Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(c)
                                                                                         1221, 1-26-
              Fourth day                                              $100-$250       Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(c)
                                                                                         1221, 1-26-
              Fifth day                                               $100-$300       Art.  2010
                                                                                         14(c)
              Each additional day, minimum $100, not to exceed an increase of $300 in 1221, 1-26-
           previous fine, to a maximum not to exceed $2,500, per day violation is        Art.  2010
           uncorrected                                                                   14(c)
 
(1992 Code, §§ 7-9, 7-136, 7-137, 7-138, 7-139, 7-140)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Authority to license
   
110.02   Application and fee
   
110.03   Approval of Town Council
   
110.04   Issuance; revocation or suspension
   
110.05   Chart on license/permit fees
   
110.06   User fees for fingerprinting cards and criminal history background
checks
Eating, Drinking Establishment Regulations and Licensing Provisions
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   Permits
   
110.22   License and license fee
   
110.23   License and fee exceptions
   
110.24   Minimum sanitation requirements for restaurants
   
110.25   Sale, examination, and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated, or
misbranded food
   
110.26   Disease control
   
110.27   Inspection of restaurants
   
110.28   Inspection of itinerant restaurants
   
110.29   Approval of plans
   
110.30   Sidewalk cafés
Itinerant Merchants and Peddlers
   
110.40   Definitions
   
110.41   Permit requirements
   
110.42   Permit application procedure
   
110.43   Use of streets by transient merchants and solicitors
   
110.44   Permit revocations
Franchise Agreements
   
110.55   Cable television
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY TO LICENSE.
   The town has the authority to impose a license fee reasonably related to the
administrative cost of exercising its regulating power.
(1992 Code, § 4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Towns provided with licensing power, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(5)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Applications for a permit under this chapter shall be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer on forms prescribed and furnished by him or her.
   (B)   Completed applications shall be accompanied by an application fee as
set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. 356, passed - -)
§ 110.03 APPROVAL OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   All applications for a permit or license under this chapter shall be
referred by the Clerk-Treasurer to the Town Council.
   (B)   After examination, the Town Council shall grant the permit or license
at the next regular meeting, unless good cause be shown why the permit or
license should not be granted.
(1992 Code, § 4-3) (Ord. 356, passed - -)
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue licenses upon payment of the license
fees and compliance with the applicable provisions of this code and Town
Council approval.
   (B)   Licenses issued by the town may be revoked or suspended if the person
holding the license has violated the terms or conditions of the license or the
law under which it was issued.
(1992 Code, § 4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer authorized to issue licenses, see I.C. 36-5-6-6(6)
   License revocations or suspensions, see I.C. 36-5-4-11
§ 110.05 CHART ON LICENSE/PERMIT FEES.
   Licensed activities and permit fees are set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 4-5)
§ 110.06 USER FEES FOR FINGERPRINTING CARDS AND CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND
CHECKS.
   (A)   The user fee per fingerprint card shall be as set forth in the Fee
Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (B)   The user fee for criminal history checks shall be as set forth in the
Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (C)   Any and all monies shall be deposited in the Continuing Education Fund
by the town’s Fiscal Officer.
   (D)   Monies shall be expended by appropriation by the Town Marshal with
approval by the Town Council.
(1992 Code, § 4-24) (Ord. 958, §§ 1 - 5, passed 12-9-1997; Am. Ord. 1422,
passed 2-15-2022)
EATING, DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT REGULATIONS AND LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who handles food during preparation or serving, or who
comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is employed in a
room or other place in which food is stored, prepared, processed, displayed, or
served.
   FOOD. All articles used for food, drink, confectionery, or condiment,
whether simple, mixed, or compound, and all substances or ingredients used in
the preparation thereof.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The health authority having jurisdiction in the town or his
or her authorized representative.
   ITINERANT RESTAURANT. A restaurant operating for a temporary period, in
connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition, or similar
gathering.
   PERSON. Shall mean, but not be limited to, any individual, partnership,
copartnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint-stock company,
trust, estate, or municipality, or his or her or its legal representative or
agent.
   RESTAURANT. Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short-order cage,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, drive-in restaurant,
drive-in theater restaurant, in-plant food service, commissary, snack bar, food
catering, or food establishment, whether fixed or movable, where food for human
consumption is prepared or served in a manner that it is ready for consumption
on the premises. RESTAURANT shall not include a food establishment that is
known as a retail food market where food is not prepared and served for
consumption on the premises.
   UTENSILS. Any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, containers, or
other equipment of any kind or nature with which food comes in contact during
storage, preparation, or serving.
(1992 Code, § 4-29) (Ord. 241, § 1, passed - -1963)
§ 110.21 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a restaurant or
itinerant restaurant in the town who does not possess a valid permit from the
Health Officer.
   (B)   The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the restaurant or
itinerant restaurant.
   (C)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of this
subchapter shall be entitled to receive and retain a permit.
   (D)   The permit for a restaurant shall be for a term of 1 year beginning
January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be renewed
annually.
   (E)   The permit for an itinerant restaurant shall be for the term of 1
continuous operation.
   (F)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name and
address of the person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the
premises for which the same is issued, and any other pertinent information as
may be required by the Health Officer.
   (G)   A separate permit shall be required for each restaurant or itinerant
restaurant operated or to be operated by any person. A permit issued under this
subchapter is not transferable.
   (H)   A permit shall be issued to any person on application after inspection
and approval by the Health Officer; provided, that the restaurant or itinerant
restaurant complies with all the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
    (I)   No permit or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoked on arbitrary
or capricious grounds. (1992 Code, § 4-30) (Ord. 241, § 2A, passed - -1963)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 LICENSE AND LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a restaurant in the
town who does not possess a valid license for the operation of the
establishment.
   (B)   The license shall be for a term of 1 year beginning January 1 and
expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be renewed annually.
   (C)   The license shall be provided by the Clerk-Treasurer, if there is
presented at his or her office a valid permit from the Health Officer together
with a fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98, or with a reduced fee if the application for license is made on or
after June 1.
   (D)   Any person who desires to operate an itinerant restaurant in the town
shall, after securing a permit from the Health Officer, obtain from the Clerk-
Treasurer a license for an itinerant restaurant.
   (E)   The license shall be provided by the Clerk-Treasurer, if there is
presented at his or her office a valid permit from the Health Officer.
   (F)   A separate license shall be required for each restaurant or itinerant
restaurant operated or to be operated by any person.
(1992 Code, § 4-31) (Ord. 241, § 2B, passed - -1963) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 LICENSE AND FEE EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to, and a permit as described in
§
110.21 shall be obtained for, restaurants and itinerant restaurants operated by
fraternal organizations, service clubs, religious, educational, and charitable
institutions. Provided, however, that no license shall be required and no
license fee shall be paid for restaurants or itinerant restaurants operated by
religious, educational charitable organizations, fraternal organizations, or
service clubs.
(1992 Code, § 4-32)
§ 110.24 MINIMUM SANITATION REQUIREMENTS FOR RESTAURANTS.
   All restaurants and itinerant restaurants and other food service
establishments shall comply with the minimum sanitation requirements specified
by the State Board of Health.
(1992 Code, § 4-33) (Ord. 241, § 3, passed - -1963) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25 SALE, EXAMINATION, AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED, OR
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a restaurant or
itinerant restaurant any food which is unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from unwholesomeness,
adulteration, or misbranding.
   (C)   The Health Officer may, on written notice to the owner or operator,
impound and forbid the sale of any food which is unwholesome, adulterated, or
misbranded, or which he or she has probable cause to believe to be unwholesome,
adulterated, or misbranded.
   (D)   The Health Officer may cause to be removed or destroyed any food which
in his or her opinion is unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded; provided,
that in case of misbranding which can be corrected by proper labeling, the food
may be released to the operator for correct labeling under the supervision of
the Health Officer.
(1992 Code, § 4-34) (Ord. 241, § 4, passed - -1963) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 DISEASE CONTROL.
   (A)   Disease control. No person who is affected with any disease in a
communicable form or is a carrier of a disease shall work in any restaurant,
and no restaurant shall employ any person or any person suspected of being
affected with a disease in a communicable form or of being a carrier of a
disease. If the restaurant manager suspects that any employee has contracted a
disease in a communicable form or has become a carrier of a disease, he or she
shall notify the Health Officer immediately.
   (B)   Procedure when infection suspected. When suspicion arises as to the
possibility of transmission of infection from any restaurant employee, the
Health Officer is authorized to require any or all of the following measures:
      (1)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all restaurants;
      (2)   The immediate closing of the restaurant concerned until no further
danger of disease outbreak exists in the opinion of the Health Officer; and/or
      (3)   Adequate medical examination of the employee and of his or her
associates with the laboratory examinations as may be indicated.
(1992 Code, § 4-35) (Ord. 241, § 5, passed - -1963) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 INSPECTION OF RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Frequency of inspection. At least once each 3 months the Health
Officer shall inspect each restaurant for which a permit is required under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Procedure when violations noted. If during the inspection of any
restaurant the Health Officer discovers the violation of any of the sanitation
requirements in §
110.24 of this subchapter, he or she shall issue a written order listing the
violations to the proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in
charge, and fixing a time within which the proprietor of the restaurant shall
abate and remedy the violations. A copy of the written order shall be filed
with the records of the Health Department.
   (C)   Authority to inspect and to copy records. The person operating the
restaurant shall, upon the request of the Health Officer, permit the Health
Officer or his or her authorized representative access to all parts of the
restaurant and shall permit copying any or all records relative to the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   Final inspection; prosecution or hearing for violators. If upon a
second and final inspection the Health Officer finds that the restaurant,
person, or employee is violating any of the provisions of this subchapter which
were in violation on the previous inspection, and concerning which a written
order was issued, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of the violation to
the prosecutor having jurisdiction in the town in which the violation occurs,
and he or she shall prosecute all persons violating the provisions of this
subchapter, or the Health Officer may promptly issue a written order to the
permittee of the restaurant to appear at a certain time, no later than 10 days
from the date of final inspection, and at a place in the county fixed in the
order to show cause why the permit issued under the provisions of §
110.21 should not be revoked.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. The Health Officer, upon the hearing, if the
permittee should fail to show cause, shall revoke the permit and promptly give
written notice of the action to the permittee. The Health Officer shall
maintain a permanent record of his or her proceedings filed in the office of
the Health Department.
   (F)   Suspension of permit. Any permit issued under this subchapter may be
temporarily suspended by the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a
period of not to exceed 30 days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Insanitary or other conditions which, in the Health Officer’s
opinion, endangers the public’s health; and/or
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or any of his or her
authorized representatives in the performance of their duties; provided,
however, that upon written application from the permittee, served upon the
Health Officer within 15 days after the suspension, the Health Officer shall
conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at least 5 days’ written notice
of the time, place, and purpose thereof to the suspended permittee; provided,
further, that any suspension order shall be issued by the Health Officer in
writing and served upon the permittee by leaving a copy at his or her usual
place of business or by delivery of registered or certified mail to the
address.
   (G)   Reinstatement of permit. Any person whose permit has been suspended
may at any time make application to the Health Officer for the reinstatement of
his or her permit.
(1992 Code, § 4-36) (Ord. 241, § 6, passed - -1973) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 INSPECTION OF ITINERANT RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Frequency of inspections. At least once in each 24-hour period the
Health Officer shall inspect each itinerant restaurant for which a permit is
required under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Procedure to follow when any sanitation violation noted. If during the
inspection of any itinerant restaurant the Health Officer discovers the
violation of any of the sanitation requirements in §
110.24, he or she shall order the immediate correction of the violation.
   (C)   Authority to inspect and to copy records. The person operating the
itinerant restaurant shall, upon the request of the Health Officer, permit the
Health Officer or his or her authorized representative access to all parts of
the itinerant restaurant and shall permit copying any or all records relative
to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   Revocation of permit and penalties for continued operation. Upon
failure of any person maintaining or operating an itinerant restaurant to
comply with any order of the Health Officer, it shall be the duty of the Health
Officer summarily to revoke the permit of the person and establishment and to
forbid the further sale or serving of food therein. Any person continuing to
sell or serve food in the itinerant restaurant, the permit of which has been
revoked, shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
110.99.
(1992 Code, § 4-37) (Ord. 241, § 7, passed - -1973)
§ 110.29 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   (A)   All restaurants which are hereafter constructed or renovated shall
conform in their construction to applicable requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Properly prepared plans and specifications shall be submitted to and
approved by the Health Officer before starting any construction work.
(1992 Code, § 4-38) (Ord. 241, § 8, passed - -1973) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 SIDEWALK CAFÉS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to benefit the residence of
the town as a whole by promoting pedestrian traffic in certain commercial
areas, enhancing the attractiveness of the downtown and other areas of
concentrated development, and making beverages and food and retail wares
conveniently available for members of the public, without creating a health and
safety hazard or inconveniencing pedestrians.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this section:
      ABUTTING RETAIL BUSINESS PROPERTY. Any real property used for retail
business which abut, but is not located in the public sidewalk area.
      APPLICANT. A person, corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
association or any other entity with the power to sue and be sued who has
submitted a registration application under this section.
      CAFÉ ACTIVITY. The retail sale of beverages or food or the provisions of
a place for the consumption of beverages, food or retail wares.
      CAFÉ AREA. The area used for café activity and shall include the entire
sidewalk sales area and any part of the abutting retail business property used
directly for café activity.
      EFFECTIVE WALKWAY WIDTH. That portion of the sidewalk in the public
sidewalk area which is reasonable available for use by the pedestrian stream
moving through the area including use by persons using mobility aid devices.
      PUBLIC SIDEWALK AREA. The sidewalk area located in the public right-of-
way or in an area in which the public has an easement for sidewalk purposes, or
both.
      SIDEWALK SALES AREA. The portion of the public sidewalk area which has
been registered with the Building Commissioner and Town Clerk for café
activity.
   (C)   Registration required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in café activity on a
sidewalk in the public right-of-way without first being registered and
permitted therefore with the Town Clerk and Building Commissioner as provided
in this section. However, retail sales of beverages or food may occur.
         (a)   From carts or stands operated pursuant to a license issued under
this chapter except in a sidewalk sales area relative to which a registration
has been granted under this section; or
         (b)   On a temporary basis if written permission is granted by the
appropriate governmental units and such writing is filed with an approved by
the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   A registrant under this section shall not be required to do the
following:
         (a)   Obtain a transient merchant activity license; and
         (b)   Obtain an encroachment license for a sidewalk café, or an awning
or canopy which does not extend beyond the sidewalk sales area and which is
used in connection with the café activity.
      (3)   The annual fee for registration for a sidewalk café shall be $25.
   (D)   Area. Areas in the town to be considered for café activity: the only
area within the town that may be approved for café activity is considered to be
the downtown area, Michigan Street, between Race Street and Filbert Street.
   (E)   Requirements for registration.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner is authorized to approve a registration
application an applicant to use the sidewalk sales area situated immediately
next to the abutting retail business property owned or leased by the applicant,
for the sole purpose of engaging in café activity. The sidewalk sales area
which the applicant utilizes for café activity shall be located within the
town. A person who desires to register to use the sidewalk sales area for café
activity shall complete a registration form provided by the Town Clerk at Town
Hall and file the form with the Building Commissioner and the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit a scale drawing or site plan with the
registration application. The scale drawing or site plan shall show the
appearance and location of:
         (a)   All items to be placed within the sidewalk sales area,
including, but not limited to tables, chairs, barriers, signs, awnings,
umbrellas, planters, and trash receptacles, as well as the colors of all items
to be placed within the café activity area; and
         (b)   All items existing on or in the public sidewalk area within ten
feet of the proposed sidewalk sales area at the time the registration form is
submitted to the Town Clerk and Building Commissioner, including, but not
limited to, parking meters, utility poles, sidewalk grate, sidewalk elevator,
building stand pipe, fire hydrant, access ramps, street lights, and bus stops.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall approve the registration and issue
a certificate of registration to each applicant qualified under the provisions
of this section, if the requirements listed in this division are met.
         (a)   The effect of walkway width of the public sidewalk area shall be
no less than five feet.
         (b)   Sidewalk sales area shall meet these requirements:
            1.   Sidewalk sales area must be located next to the abutting
retail business property, and the perimeter of the sidewalk sales area that is
intended to seat more than six persons on furniture provided by the registrant
shall be marked by a perimeter barrier such as a fence or other structure that
is authentic and complies with the architecture in the adjoining area as much
as possible. The perimeter barrier shall be removable and shall not be anchored
into the sidewalk. The perimeter barrier may use plates or other structures
that will allow the perimeter barrier to stand.
            2.   The Building Commissioner shall calculate the proposed five
foot pedestrian walkway area to insure that it does not materially impede
accessibility.
            3.   No part of the sidewalk sales area shall be located within:
               A.   Fifteen feet of any bus loading zone;
               B.   Five feet of any sidewalk grate unless the registrant
demonstrated that the purpose of the sidewalk grate is not frustrated by a
sidewalk sales area within five feet of the sidewalk grate;
               C.   Five feet of any building standpipe or building hydrant,
unless the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal’s designee determines upon inspection
that access to the standpipe or hydrant is not impeded by a sidewalk sales area
that is within five feet of the standpipe or hydrant; or
               D.   Five feet of any taxi stand area, cross walk, drive-way,
alleyway, or access ramp.
      (4)   No item may be place in a sidewalk sales area unless the item is in
the places shown in the scale drawing or site plan submitted with the
registration application.
      (5)   The applicant shall be actively engaged in a retail business
involving the sale of beverages, food, or retail in the abutting retail
business property. The beverages, food, or other retail items sold in the cage
area or normal business area will also be sold in the abutting retail business
property. The floor area of the abutting retail business property must exceed
the area of the sidewalk sales area.
      (6)   Any applicable permits required by the Department of the Health of
St. Joseph County and other regularity agencies shall have been secured and are
in force.
      (7)   The applicant shall have provided a certificate of public liability
insurance to the Building Commissioner, approved as to form by the attorney for
the town, insuring the person and naming the town as co-insured. The required
amounts of personal injury and property damage insurance requirements shall be
established by the town’s Council and shall be maintained by the registrant
through out the term of the registration.
      (8)   The applicant shall have provided a document, approved as to formed
by the town’s Attorney, in which the registrant agrees to indemnify and hold
harmless the town for losses, damages, claims or expenses arising out of the
use of the sidewalk sales area for café activity.
   (F)   Restrictions of café activity.
      (1)   Use of the café area for café activity under this section shall be
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The registrant shall be required to obey the commands of law-
enforcement officials, firefighters, and all other public authorities acting
pursuant to law with respect to activity carried out in the sidewalk sales
area, including the temporary removal of furniture and equipment and temporary
cessation of café activity;
         (b)   When café activity is not being conducted or when the abutting
retail, business property is not open, the registrant shall remove from the
sidewalk sales area, or otherwise secure, all furniture, equipment, and goods
which are susceptible to movement by the elements or by unauthorized persons;
         (c)   All items associated with the sidewalk sales area must be
susceptible of being removed within seven calendar days from the date that
notification by the Building Commissioner that such removal is necessary is
deposited in the mail or otherwise delivered to the registrant;
         (d)   Provisions shall be made to assure the sidewalk will not be
littered, including placement of adequate trash receptacles and periodic
picking up of litter in the sidewalk sales area in the area 20 feet from the
perimeter of the sidewalk sales area;
         (e)   Sales and beverages or food shall not be accomplished by crying
out or hawking;
         (f)   Pedestrians shall not be exposed to any undue safety or health
hazard nor shall a public nuisance be created, and, not withstanding other
sessions of this section the registrant shall keep the public sidewalk area in
front of or adjacent to the sidewalk sales area in abutting retail business
property cleared of snow and ice at all times;
         (g)   Sales of beverages and food may not be made to a person in or on
any motorized vehicle;
         (h)   Beverages or food sold in a sidewalk sales area shall be
provided only for consumption in the sidewalk sales area or in the abutting
retail business property;
         (i)   The Building Commissioner may, by written notice to the
registrant, forbid the use of the sidewalk sales area during the time and
within the geographic boundaries of the special event designated by the Town
Council, or require that the registrant meet the additional requirements
imposed on all vendors by the special event sponsor;
         (j)   If the fence or other said structure required to be on the
perimeter of the café activity area includes a gate, including any means of
entering or exiting the sidewalk sales area from the public sidewalk sales
area, the gate should be accessible to all emergency equipment as determined by
the Fire Marshall and the Building Commissioner as well as comply with any
disabled pedestrian apparatus;
         (k)   Any anchored perimeter barrier must be removed within 24 hours
of the Christmas in New Carlisle parade for sidewalk repairs.
      (2)   A registrant’s failure to comply with the conditions set forth in
division (F)(1) above shall be grounds for enforcement proceedings in
termination of their café activity registration permit.
   (G)   Certain modifications or variances permitted. The Town Council may,
with the final approval of the Building Commissioner, modify or vary any of the
requirements of the divisions regarding café activities at the end of this
section on showing that the requirements imposes a special hardship on the
registrant and the modification or variance of the requirements will not
interfere with the achievement of the purpose of the section as set forth
herein above.
   (H)   Registration term. A registration under this section shall be issued
on or after January 1, of a particular year and shall be valid until December
31 of the following year.
   (I)   Renewal of registration. 
      (1)   Prior to the time a registration under this section is renewed:
         (a)   The registrant shall submit no later that November 1 an
application for renewal of registration on a form provided by the Building
Commissioner together with the fee required by said code. The Building
Commissioner may review the pedestrian traffic flow and if appropriate, modify
the sidewalk sales area or the days and hours the area may be used.
         (b)   The Building Commissioner may review the site plan to assure
that any changed conditions comply with the objectives of this section.
         (c)   The Building Commissioner may review the operation of the
sidewalk café to determine if a continued operation is in the best interest of
the town.
      (2)   If, after renewal application is submitted and the review provided
in division (I)(1) of this section are completed, it is determined that there
are no changed conditions that would not allow pedestrian traffic flow
standards to be met, no changes in the detail site plan, and no change of
circumstances such that the continued operation of the sidewalk café would not
be in the best interest of the town, and registrations shall be renewed by the
Building Commissioner, unless at the time of renewal the registration:
         (a)   Has been revoked or suspended; or
         (b)   Is the subject of administrative or judicial proceedings which
have the potential to result in the revocation or suspension of the
registration, in which case the registration may continue in effect until the
conclusion of the administrative or judicial proceeding.
   (J)   Enforcement. Inspections may be made and action to enforce the
provisions of this section may be take by the Building Commissioner or by any
law enforcement agency. The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for
making periodic inspections of café activity carried out in sidewalk sales
area. In the event the town must enforce the provisions of this section by
court action, the registrant will be unable to reimburse the town for attorney
fees and court costs.
(Ord. 1337, passed 12-13-2016)
ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS
§ 110.40 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SOLICITOR. All persons, firms, limited liability companies, and
corporations, both as principals and agents who solicit contributions,
signatures, or distribute fliers, pamphlets, or other information material by
going house to house or street to street.
      TRANSIENT MERCHANTS. All persons, firms, limited liability companies, and
corporations, both as principals and agents, who engage in, do, or transact any
temporary business in the town, offering for sale or selling goods, wares, or
merchandise; and those who, for the purpose of carrying on the business, hire,
lease, use, or occupy any permanent or mobile building, structure, or real
estate for the exhibition by means of samples, catalogues, photographs, and
price lists or sale of the goods, wares, or merchandise; or who peddle the
goods, wares, merchandise from house to house or upon streets or other public
places.
   (B)   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS and SOLICITORS shall not be construed so as to
include the following:
      (1)   Any person, individual, copartner, limited liability company, or
corporation which sells farm products cultivated and raised in the State of
Indiana by Indiana farmers;
      (2)   A resident of the town who conducts a sale of tangible personal
property for no more than 4 days per calendar year; and/or
      (3)   A person who organizes, sells merchandise at, offers to sell
merchandise at, or exhibits at a trade show or convention.
(1992 Code, § 4-46) (Ord. 929, § 1, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 110.41 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All transient merchants and solicitors shall be required to obtain a
permit from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town before commencing to
engage or transact in business or soliciting. Permits shall be issued upon
compliance with this subchapter and payment of the application fee.
   (B)   All transient merchants and solicitors who have obtained a license
shall immediately vacate the premises of any homeowners who have either:
      (1)   Posted a sign requesting that no soliciting or peddling occur on
the premises; or
      (2)   Verbally requested or expressed to the solicitor or itinerant
merchant that they should leave.
   (C)   Failure to immediately vacate the premises of any homeowner who has so
requested shall be deemed a nuisance and subject to all penalties available in
this chapter.
   (D)   Failure to obtain a permit as required by this subchapter shall be
deemed a nuisance and subject to all penalties available in this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 4-47) (Ord. 929, § 1, passed 12-17-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All transient merchants or solicitors desiring to do business within
the corporate limits of the town shall file a verified application for
licensing for that purpose with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town at least 7 days
prior to beginning business; provided, however, that the Clerk-Treasurer has
discretion to allow applications filed less than 7 days prior to the start of
business.
   (B)   All applications shall state the following:
      (1)   The name(s) of the persons, firms, limited liability companies,
corporations, and any principals and agents;
      (2)   The permanent or mobile building, structure, or real estate which
is intended to be used; alternatively if door to door or street to street
canvassing is to be used, this shall be indicated; and
      (3)   The length of time the license is needed for.
   (C)   All applicants shall submit a certified check or money order as set
forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98.
   (D)   Each license shall only be good for 30 days; provided, however, that
one 30-day extension shall be allowed.
(1992 Code, § 4-48) (Ord. 929, § 1, passed 12-17-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.43 USE OF STREETS BY TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS.
   (A)   No transient merchant or solicitor, nor any person on his or her
behalf, shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets
nor shall any be permitted to a stationary location, nor shall any be permitted
to operate in any congested area where the operations may impede or
inconvenience the public.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the judgment of the Town Marshal,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
   (C)   No transient merchant or solicitor shall conduct business or solicit
without first obtaining a permit according to this subchapter.
   (D)   No transient merchant or solicitor shall remain on premises from which
he or she has been requested or told to vacate.
(1992 Code, § 4-49) (Ord. 929, § 1, passed 12-17-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.44 PERMIT REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked
by the President of the Town Council after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on business or soliciting;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter; and/or
      (4)   Conducting business or soliciting in an unlawful manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a permit or license shall be
given in writing, setting forth the basis of the complaint and the time and
place of the hearing.
(1992 Code, § 4-50) (Ord. 929, passed 12-17-1996)
FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
§ 110.55 CABLE TELEVISION.
   (A)   The town may enter into a written agreement with a cable television
company to service the town.
   (B)   The agreements shall be binding on the parties as to rental amounts,
safety requirements, inspections indemnification, bond requirements, and other
related areas.
   (C)   The agreements, upon approval of an appropriate ordinance by the Town
Council, shall be kept on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(1992 Code, § 4-73) (Ord. 606, passed - -1982)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
110.21 or
110.22 or any other provisions of §§
110.20 through
110.29 or who refuses to comply with any lawful order, rules or regulations of
the Health Officer, as provided in §§
110.20 through
110.29, shall, upon conviction, be punished as set forth in §
10.99(B). Each day of operation in violation of the provisions of §§
110.20 through
110.29 shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(1992 Code, § 4-39) (Ord. 241, passed - -1973)
   (C)   Violations of §§
110.40 through
110.44 shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99(B). Additionally, any transient merchant or solicitor who has failed to
obtain a permit and continues to engage in the activity in question may be
denied a permit.
(1992 Code, § 4-47) (Ord. 929, § 1, passed 12-17-1996)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Public Health and Safety Regulations
   
130.01   Curfew regulations
   
130.02   Unlawful to spit on sidewalks and public places
   
130.03   Prohibition against discharging firearms and weapons in town
 
   
130.99   Penalty
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
§ 130.01 CURFEW REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday; and
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian,
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Section 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of 1 or more adults.
      (4)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
(I.C. 31-37-3-3.5(b))
   (D)   Based upon probable cause, the Town Marshal or any deputy may stop and
question any minor suspected of violating this section’s provisions and may
take the minor into custody when a violation is found. The officer may take the
minor to the Town Police Headquarters.
      (1)   The parent, guardian, or person having legal custody shall then be
notified or summoned by the investigating officer to appear at headquarters.
      (2)   If the investigating officer is satisfied that a violation has
occurred, he or she shall issue a citation for the violation to the parent,
guardian, or custodian.
(1992 Code, § 6-60) (Ord. 952, § 1, passed 10-14-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   State law for curfew violations, see I.C. 31-37-3
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL TO SPIT ON SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate upon any sidewalk
within the limits of the town, or spit or expectorate upon the steps or
entrances of any store, church, theater, or public building within the town.
(1992 Code, § 6-61) Penalty, see §
10.99(B)
§ 130.03 PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND WEAPONS IN TOWN.
   (A)   No person, within the town shall shoot or discharge any firearm,
handgun, revolver or pistol of any description; shotgun or rifle which may be
used for the explosion of cartridges; or any air gun, gas-operated gun, spring
gun, pellet gun, weapon or instrument made for the purpose of throwing or
projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever, whether the instrument
is called by any name set forth above or by any other name.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any legally appointed officer in the
discharge of his or her duty.
(Ord. 1232, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each parent, guardian, or custodian receiving a citation under §
130.01(D) shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99(B).
(1992 Code, § 6-60) (Ord. 952, § 1, passed 10-14-1997)
   (C)   Violation of §
130.02 shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 for first and second offenses.
   (D)   (1)   Violation of §
130.03 shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
      (2)   Any person issued a citation for violating §
130.03 shall make payment to the Clerk-Treasurer. Failure to make payment
within 30 days at the issuance of a citation shall result in the assessment of
a late fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 6-61) (Am. Ord. 1232, passed 1-11-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Authority of Building Commissioner
   
150.004   Scope
   
150.005   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.006   Application for permits
   
150.007   Permit required
   
150.008   Other ordinances
   
150.009   Fees
   
150.010   Review of application
   
150.011   Inspections
   
150.012   Inspection assistance
   
150.013   Entry
   
150.014   Stop order
   
150.015   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.016   Workmanship
   
150.017   Violations
   
150.018   Right of appeal
   
150.019   Remedies
   
150.020   Effective date
   
150.021   Personnel of Building Department
   
150.022   Building Commissioner, qualifications and duties
   
150.023   Public display of notice
   
150.024   Plot plan
   
150.025   Correction of errors or mistakes
   
150.026   Alteration of plans, approval of Commissioner
   
150.027   Sidewalks required before permit issued
   
150.028   Definition of terms used in Building Code
Dwellings and Garages Not Governed by the “Building Rules and Regulations
of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana;” Minimum
Building Code Rules and Regulations
   
150.040   Footings
   
150.041   Lot coverage, building area, foundations
   
150.042   Chimneys
   
150.043   Floor and roof framing around chimneys
   
150.044   Wood posts used for girder supports
   
150.045   Framing into masonry walls
   
150.046   Minimum sizes of wood framing, studding, corner construction
   
150.047   Headers for usual loading construction
   
150.048   Plates and floor and ceiling joists
   
150.049   Rafters
   
150.050   Floor joist and bracing
   
150.051   Rooms, scuttle, and fire stopping
   
150.052   Private garages
Sanitary Standards for Dwellings; Minimum Building Code Requirements
   
150.065   Plumbing
   
150.066   Heating
Unsafe Building Law
   
150.080   Adoption of Unsafe Building Law
   
150.081   Definitions
   
150.082   Code Enforcement Office; issuance of orders
   
150.083   Contents of orders
   
150.084   Service of orders
   
150.085   Modification of orders
   
150.086   Rescission of orders
   
150.087   Service of orders and statements
   
150.088   Hearings; notice; procedure; noncompliance
   
150.089   Judicial review
   
150.090   Recording orders, statements and records; effect
   
150.091   Emergency action
   
150.092   Receivers
   
150.093   Performance by contractor; public bids; procedure; notice
   
150.094   Performance of work required; liability of owners; lien; enforcement
   
150.095   Funds and financial administration
   
150.096   Inspection warrants
   
150.097   Civil action by town
Violations
   
150.110   Violations; declaration of nuisance
   
150.111   Non-assumption of liability
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   (A)   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemented or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the “Building Code of the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana,”
shall be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this Code” or “this
subchapter.”
(Ord. 920, § la, passed 6-25-1996)
   (B)   Anywhere here in this Code “Building Commissioner” shall be used
interchangeably with “Building Inspector” and shall mean the same person.
(Ord. 920, § lb, passed 6-25-1996)
(1992 Code, § 7-1)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(1992 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 706, § 2, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.003 AUTHORITY OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner is authorized and directed to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this Code. Whenever in this Code it is
provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the Town
Council, this shall be construed to give the officer only the discretion of
determining whether this Code has been complied with; and no such provision
shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this
Code shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or
to enforce this Code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(1992 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 706, § 3, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.004 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this Code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy, and addition to all buildings and structures, other than
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4.
(1992 Code, § 7-4) (Ord. 706, § 4, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.005 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building Rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are incorporated by reference in this subchapter, and shall
include later amendments to those Articles as the same are published in the
Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One and Two Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One and Two Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code; Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes: Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Codes; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 7-5)
§ 150.006 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the application
for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed location
showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the work to be
done; in addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State Building
Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal Commissioner before issuance of a
permit for construction covered by the design release.
(1992 Code, § 7-6) (Ord. 706, § 6, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.007 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration or
repair of any nature covered by this code or the cost of which exceeds $1,000,
using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner, and all fees required by
this Code shall be paid to the town. In the event that construction is started
prior to obtaining a permit, the permit fees shall be doubled. The payment of
the penalty shall not release the person in default from any other penalties
hereafter provided.
(1992 Code, § 7-7) (Ord. 706, § 7, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.008 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in those ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. 706, § 8, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.009 FEES.
   (A)   Location of fees. Fees for the Code are contained in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, §§ 7-9, 7-136, 7-137, 7-138, 7-139, 7-140) (Ord. 706, § 9, passed
9-5-1990)
   (B)   Permit fees, generally.  Permit fees apply to all new construction and
all repairs and remodeling except tax funded entities are exempt from permit
fees.
      (1)   Tax funded entities are:
         (a)   Town of New Carlisle;
         (b)   Olive Township Trustee;
         (c)   New Carlisle - Olive Township Library; and
         (d)   New Prairie United School Corporation.
      (2)   The tax funded entities must still obtain permits.
(1992 Code, § 7-135) (Ord. 891, § 1, passed 11-8-1994)
      (3)   No refunds shall be allowed for permits already issued and for
which monies have been collected.
      (4)   Temporary service: fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(Am. Ord. 1084, passed 10-23-2001; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord.
1431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 150.010 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of building permit, the Building Commissioner shall
review building permit applications to determine full compliance with the
provisions of this Code.
(1992 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 706, § 10, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.011 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner shall
make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are
necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and
the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not
ready for inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as
prescribed in this Code.
(1992 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 706, § 11, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.012 INSPECTION ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated representative,
shall assist the Building Commissioner in the inspection of fire suppression,
detection, and alarm systems and shall provide reports of the inspection to the
Building Commissioner.
(1992 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 706, § 12, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.013 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the Town of New Carlisle to perform any duty imposed
upon him or her by this Code.
(1992 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 706, § 13, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.014 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this Code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be done, and the
persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(1992 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 706, § 14, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.015 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired after the adoption of Ord. 706 shall be issued unless the building
or structure was erected, altered, or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy the building or
structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner. The certificate of occupancy shall
not be issued until all sidewalks are constructed and all utility tap fees are
paid.
(1992 Code, § 7-15) (Ord. 706, § 15, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.016 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade and state law.
(1992 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. 706, § 16, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.017 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this Code.
(1992 Code, § 7-17) (Ord. 706, § 17, passed 9-5-1990) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.018 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision first through the Town Council and then to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission of Indiana in accordance with the provisions of I.C.
22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(1992 Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 706, § 18, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.019 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the Town of New Carlisle
bring actions in the Circuit Courts of St. Joseph County, for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory
or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 706, § 19, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.020 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption, approval by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of
Indiana, and publication as required by law.
(1992 Code, § 7-21) (Ord. 706, § 21, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 150.021 PERSONNEL OF BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Building Department shall consist of a Building Commissioner
approved by the Town Council and any other assistants as may be necessary to
carry on the work of the Department.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall hold office per the conditions set forth
in a contract between the Town Council and the Building Inspector.
(1992 Code, § 7-22) (Ord. 920, § 2, passed 6-25-1996)
§ 150.022 BUILDING COMMISSIONER, QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Building Commissioner shall be a person of good
standing in the community and shall be well experienced in the field of
construction, shall be knowledgeable of all state building laws, and shall
comply with state law requirements which may be applicable.
   (B)   Bond. The Building Commissioner or any assistant appointed, before
entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall give bond in the minimum
sum of $1,000. The bond shall have surety or sureties thereon by some surety
company or 2 reputable freeholders of the town, to the approval of the Town
Council. The premium of the bond is to be paid by the town.
   (C)   Salary. The salary of the Building Inspector and his or her assistants
shall be set by the conditions of a contract between the Building Inspector and
the Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle.
(Ord. 920, § 3, passed 6-25-1996)
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   The duties of the Building Commissioner shall be the administration
of the Building Department and the enforcement of applicable sections of the
Code. He or she shall have direction of and authority over all members of the
Department, unless otherwise provided.
      (2)   He or she shall whenever requested furnish preliminary information
relative to the application or interpretation of any such provisions of this
Code when the same is needed in the preparation of plans.
(1992 Code, § 7-23)
§ 150.023 PUBLIC DISPLAY OF NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or contractor to maintain a card or
notice, tacked on the front of the building, or upon a proper board and stake
put in place at the time the building operations of whatever nature is
commenced.
   (B)   This notice shall plainly give the permit number, lot number or
location, the date of the permit, and signature of the Commissioner of
Buildings on the permit furnished by the Building Department at the time of
issuance.
(1992 Code, § 7-24)
§ 150.024 PLOT PLAN.
   (A)   When required by the Department, application for permit shall be
accompanied for permanent record by a plot plan of the lot or site upon which
it is intended to erect or remove a building or structure.
   (B)   It shall show all compliances with the zoning chapter of this code of
ordinances, all provisions pertaining to plot plan under this Code, location of
each and every existing and proposed structure hereon, and outlines of all
buildings on adjacent property where the outlines come within 10 feet of
property line.
   (C)   It shall show the outline of the first story in solid lines, with
figured dimensions of buildings and all available data to determine whether the
construction is permissible.
   (D)   The plot plan shall be drawn on paper size to a multiple of 7 inches
by 11 inches to scale of 16 feet to 1 inch.
   (E)   For extended operations involving a number of buildings when a plot
for the entire property is involved, it shall be drawn to scale, and shall be
submitted to the Department, showing all existing and proposed structures.
   (F)   The Department may accept same in lieu of the plan above described.
(1992 Code, § 7-25)
§ 150.025 CORRECTION OF ERRORS OR MISTAKES.
   (A)   When the Department has reason to suspect any improper or incorrect
statements by applicant for permit, it may be withheld until the statements are
verified or corrected.
   (B)   For the purpose of securing correct cost and valuation information,
the Commissioner may require applicant to show contracts, or make sworn
statement, or he or she may place his or her own valuation on work for which
permit is applied; or refuse permit altogether until proper information is
given.
(1992 Code, § 7-26)
§ 150.026 ALTERATION OF PLANS, APPROVAL OF COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erase, alter, or modify the plan or working
drawings and specifications in any way that affects the structural, sanitary,
or other essential features of a building or structure or premises after they
have been approved by the Commissioner and/or the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission of Indiana.
   (B)   If, during the progress of the work, it is desired to alter or deviate
in any manner affecting the construction, sanitation, or other essentials of
the building from the terms of the application, plans, or working drawings or
specifications, notice of that intention shall be given in writing to the
Department and/or the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana
and the written approval of the Department and/or the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission of Indiana obtained.
(1992 Code, § 7-27)
Editor’s note:
   This section was not specifically repealed by Ord. 706, accordingly
“Administrative Building Council of Indiana” has been replaced with “Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana.”
§ 150.027 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED BEFORE PERMIT ISSUED.
   (A)   Before a building permit is issued, the applicant shall be responsible
for the installation of sidewalks in compliance with the subdivision ordinance
found in
Chapter 151 of this code. Sidewalks shall be located along each side of a
street within the dedicated non-paved portion of the street right-of- way.
   (B)   The sidewalks may be constructed prior to obtaining the building
permit, or a performance bond or cash bond may be posted prior to construction,
guaranteeing the construction, in an amount of money covering the cost of the
construction. The amount of the performance bond or cash bond shall be
determined by the Town Council upon application.
   (C)   The portion of lots fronting on an unimproved right-of-way may be
exempted from the above requirements.
(Ord. 591, passed - -1982)
   (D)   Cash bond fee shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
(1992 Code, § 7-28) (Ord. 913, § 1, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 947, § 1, passed - -
1997)
§ 150.028 DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Wherever the following words or expressions occur in this Code, or in
any application, plan, drawing, specification, or permit, the definition herein
given will be deemed the meaning of the words or expressions. Words used in the
present tense include the future; words used in the masculine gender include
the feminine and neuter, the singular number includes the plural and the plural
the singular.
   (B)   Where terms are not defined in this section, they shall have their
ordinarily accepted meanings or such as the context may imply.
      ADDITION. Extension of ground area or cubic contents.
      ALLEY. A public way which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
      APARTMENT HOTEL. An apartment house which furnishes additional services
ordinarily furnished by hotels, but where the services furnished are for its
tenants by previous arrangements and not for transients.
      APPROVED. For the purpose of this Code, unless otherwise explicitly
stated herein, shall be taken to mean the approval of the Building
Commissioner.
      APPROVED MASONRY. Masonry constructed of brick, stone, concrete, hollow
block, or other material approved after test, or a combination of these
materials.
      AREA.
         (a)   As applied to a form of construction, an uncovered sub-surface
space adjacent to a building.
         (b)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, the maximum
horizontal projected area of the building at grade.
      ATTIC STORY. A story situated wholly or partly in the roof space.
      AUTOMATIC. As applied to a fire door or other opening protective, means
normally held in an open position and automatically closed by a releasing
device that is actuated by abnormal high temperature or by a predetermined
rated of rise in temperature.
      BASEMENT. That portion of a building, the floor of which is not less than
2 feet below and the ceiling of which is not less than 4 feet and 6 inches
above grade.
      BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a construction that is safe
and stable, and adapted to permanent or continuous occupancy for public,
institutional, residence, business, or storage purposes; the term BUILDING
shall be construed as if followed by the words “or part thereof.”
      BUILDING LINE. The surface line of the solid wall on any side of the
building.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the Town of New
Carlisle, Indiana.
      CELLAR. A story more than 1/2 below the finished grade, provided the
finished grade be not below the established grade adjacent to the lot.
      CONCRETE. A mixture of portland cement, aggregate, and water, of such
materials, proportions, and manipulation as to give specified results.
         (a)   AVERAGE CONCRETE. A mixture of 1 part of portland cement and not
more than 6 parts of aggregate proportioned by volume, with the necessary
water.
         (b)   CONTROLLED CONCRETE. Concrete where the materials are
scientifically selected, graded, and proportioned to give specified results.
         (c)   REINFORCED CONCRETE. A portland cement concrete in which steel
is embedded in such a manner that the 2 materials act together in resisting
forces.
      COURT. A open unoccupied space on a lot, at least 3 sides of which are
enclosed by the walls of a building.
      DEAD LOAD. The weight of walls, partitions, floors, roofs, and all other
permanent construction of a building.
      DWELLING. A building occupied exclusively for residence purposes and
having not more than 2 apartments, or as a boarding or rooming house serving
not more than 15 persons with meals or sleeping accommodations, or both.
      FIRE DOOR. A door and its assembly, so constructed and assembled in place
as to give the specified protection against the passage of fire.
      FIRE RESISTANCE RATING. The time in hours that the material or
construction will withstand the standard fire exposure as determined by a fire
test made in conformity with the Standard Methods of Fire Tests of Building
Construction and Material. Materials or construction rated as “combustible”
shall be not acceptable for specified ratings of over 1 hour.
      FLOOR AREA. A floor spec enclosed by exterior walls, firewalls, or fire
partitions, or by combination of them.
      FRAME CONSTRUCTION. As applied to buildings, means that in which walls
and interior construction are wholly or partly of wood. Buildings of exterior
masonry veneer, metal, or stucco on wooden frame, constituting, wholly or in
part, the structural supports of the building or its loads, are frame buildings
within the meaning of this definition.
      GARAGE. A building, shed, or enclosure, or a part thereof, in which a
motor vehicle containing a flammable fluid in its fuel storage tank is stored,
housed, kept, or repaired.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A structure, building, or premises or any
portion thereof where a flammable fluid for retail supply to motor vehicles is
stored, housed, or sold. This definition also covers a FILLING STATION.
      GRADE. The surface of the ground, court, lawn, yard, or sidewalk
adjoining the building.
         (a)   ESTABLISHED GRADE. The grade of the centerline of roads and
streets fixed by the Town or County Surveyor or the State Highway Commission.
         (b)   NATURAL GRADE. The undisturbed natural surface of the ground.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room occupied by 1 or more persons for living, eating,
or sleeping; and includes kitchens serving apartments or individual households,
but does not include bathrooms, water-closet compartments, laundries, serving
and storage pantries, corridors, cellars, and spaces that are not used
frequently or during extended periods.
      HEIGHT OF STORY. The vertical distance from the top of one floor to the
top of the next above.
      INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. Material which does not burn except at a very
high temperature, but which may conduct heat rapidly or alter in shape or
consistency at temperature of an ordinary conflagration.
      LINTEL. A beam or girder placed over an opening of not great width with
the ends resting directly on masonry.
      LIVE LOAD. All loads except dead loads.
      LOT. See definition in Zoning Chapter of this code.
      LOT LINE. The line of demarcation between the property of different
owners, but not including the line of demarcation between any lot or parcel of
ground and a water front, public park or thoroughfare.
      MORTARS. Cement lime MORTAR means a mixture of 1 part of portland cement,
1 part of lime putty or dry hydrated lime, and not more than 6 parts of sand,
proportioned by volume.
         (a)   Cement lime mortar should not be confused with lime cement
mortar.
         (b)   Lime mortar means a mixture of 1 part lime putty or hydrated
lime and not more than 3 parts of sand, proportioned by volume.
         (c)   Lime cement mortar means a mixture of 1 part of portland cement,
2 parts of hydrated lime or lime putty, and not more than 9 parts of sand,
proportioned by volume.
         (d)   Masonry cement mortar means a mixture of 1 part of approved
masonry cement to not more than 3 parts of sand proportioned by volume.
         (e)   See the A.S.T.M. specifications for masonry cement.
         (f)   Natural cement mortar means a mixture of 1 part of approved
natural cement to not more than 3 parts of sand proportioned by volume.
         (g)   See the A.S.T.M. specifications for natural cement.
         (h)   Portland cement mortar means a mixture of 1 part of portland
cement and not more than 3 parts of sand, proportioned by volume, with or
without an addition of hydrated lime or lime putty of not more than 25% of the
cement by volume. Mortar made with natural or proprietary cements shall not be
used where portland cement mortar is specified but may be used where lime
cement mortar is permitted.
      OFFSET. A change in thickness of wall usually made at the top of the
floor beams or joists.
      OWNER. Includes his or her duly authorized agent or attorney, a
purchaser, devisee, fiduciary, and a person having a vested or contingent
interest in the property in question.
      PARTITION. An interior subdividing wall. If constructed of other
materials than masonry, the name or class of the structural material is usually
prefixed.
      PARTY LINE. Same as LOT LINE.
      PERSON. Any natural person, firm, corporation, or legal entity.
      PIER. An isolated mass of brickwork or masonry forming a support for an
arch, column, post, girder lintel, truss, or similar structural part.
      PLACE OF ASSEMBLY. A room or space in which provision is made for the
seating of 100 or more persons for religious, recreational, educational,
political, social, or amusement purposes, or for the consumption of food or
drink. The room or space shall include any occupied connecting room or space in
the same story, or in a story or stories above or below, where entrance is
common to the rooms or spaces.
      READER.
         (a)   In masonry, the short side or end of a brick or stone.
         (b)   In framing, the girder into which floor joists, chimneys, and
the like are framed in making openings, or for stairways.
      REFERENCES. Standard authorities relative to Underwriters requirements,
methods of construction, and the like data for which may be found on file at
the office for inspection at any time during the regular office hours of the
Department.
      REMODELING. See ALTERATIONS.
      REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with the same kind of material
used in the existing work, not including additional work that would affect the
structural safety of the building, or that would affect or change required exit
facilities, or that would affect a vital element of plumbing, wiring, or
heating installation, or that would be in violation of a provision of law or
ordinance.
      REQUIRED. Required by some provision of this Code.
      ROOF STRUCTURE. A structure above the roof of any part of a building
enclosing a stairway, tank, elevator machinery, or ventilating apparatus, or
such part of a shaft as extends above the roof.
      SELF-CLOSING. As applied to a fire door or other opening protective,
means normally closed and equipped with an approved device which will ensure
closing after having been opened or used.
      SKELETON CONSTRUCTION. The framework of buildings whose external and
internal loads and stresses are transmitted from the top of the building to the
foundation through girders and columns of metal, wood, or reinforced concrete.
      STAIRWAY. One or more flights of stairs and the necessary landings and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one story to another in a building or structure.
      STANDARD FIRE TEST. The first test formulated under the procedure of the
American Standards Association as “American Standard.”
      STREET OR ROAD LINE. The line of demarcation between a water front,
public park, or thoroughfare and land or a lot adjoining thereto and abutting
thereon.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
more or less permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground, except public utility, communication, and
electrical transmission lines and equipment, and facilities supporting the same
and/or incidental thereto.
      UNDERWRITERS. The National Board of Fire Underwriters. In all cases where
Underwriters’ approval is required or implied, it shall be taken to mean this
body.
      WALLS.
         (a)   BEARING WALL. A wall which supports any vertical load in
addition to its own weight.
         (b)   CAVITY WALL. A wall built of masonry units or of plain concrete,
or a combination of these materials, so arranged as to provide an air space
within the wall, and in which the inner and outer parts of the wall are tied
together with metal ties.
         (c)   CURTAIN WALL. A non-bearing wall between columns or piers and
which is not supported by girders or beams.
         (d)   FACED WALL. A wall in which the masonry facing and backing are
so bonded as to exert common action under load.
         (e)   FIRE PARTITION. A partition which subdivides a building to
restrict the spread of fire or to provide areas of refuge, but is not
necessarily continuous through all stories, not extended through the roof, and
has a fire-resistance rating of at least 2 hours.
         (f)   FIREWALL. A wall of brick or reinforced concrete which
subdivides a building or separates buildings to restrict the spread of fire
which starts at the foundation and extends continuously through all stories to
and above the roof, except where the roof is fireproof or semi-fireproof and
wall is carried up tightly against the underside of the roof slab.
         (g)   FOUNDATION WALL. A wall below the first floor extending below
the adjacent ground level and serving as support for a wall, pier, column, or
other structural part of a building.
         (h)   HOLLOW WALL OF MASONRY. A wall built of masonry units so
arranged as to provide an air space within the wall, and in which the inner and
outer parts of the wall are bonded together with masonry units.
         (i)   NON-BEARING WALL. A wall which supports no load other than its
own weight.
         (j)   PANEL WALL. A non-bearing wall in skeleton construction built
between columns or piers and wholly supported at each story.
         (k)   PARTY WALL. A wall used or adapted for joint service between 2
buildings.
         (l)   VENEERED WALL. A wall having a facing which is not attached and
bonded to the backing so as to form an integral part of the wall for purposes
of load bearing and stability.
      WRITING.  Includes printing and typewriting.
      WRITTEN NOTICE. Shall be considered to have been served if delivered in
person to the individual or to the parties intended, or if delivered at or sent
by registered mail to the last business address known to the party giving the
notice.
      YARD. An open space other than a court on the same lot with a building,
which space is unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a building from
the ground upward except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for
the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard,
or the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot
line and the building shall be used.
      YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the front line of the building and the front line of the lot.
      YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the rear line of the principal building and the rear line of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building and
situated between the building and the side line of the lot, and extending
through from the street or from the front yard to the rear yard or to the rear
line of the lot. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a
side line.
      ZONING. The reservation of certain specified areas within a community or
city for buildings and structures for certain purposes with other limitations
such as minimum requirements for lot area, height of buildings, lot coverage,
vehicle parking space, and the like (see
Chapter 152 of this code).
      WAGON MOVE. Any building not to exceed 14 feet by 20 feet by 18 feet when
mounted.
(1992 Code, § 7-29)
DWELLINGS AND GARAGES NOT GOVERNED BY THE “BUILDING RULES AND REGULATIONS OF
THE FIRE PREVENTION AND BUILDING SAFETY COMMISSION OF INDIANA;” MINIMUM
BUILDING CODE RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.040 FOOTINGS.
   (A)   All footings shall bear on undisturbed soil. Where soil conditions
prevent short-cut trenches for footings, side forms shall be used.
   (B)   The minimum dimensions of footings shall be as follows.
      (1)   Under foundation walls of 1-story frame dwellings containing no
basement: thickness 6 inches; projection 3 inches on each side of wall.
      (2)   Under foundation walls of all other frame dwellings and 1-story
masonry dwellings: thickness 7 inches; projection 4 inches on each side of
wall.
      (3)   Under foundation walls of masonry dwellings more than 1 story in
height: thickness 12 inches; projection 6 inches each side.
      (4)   Under masonry piers: thickness 12 inches; projection each side 6
inches, area 4 square feet.
      (5)   Under posts and columns: thickness 12 inches, size 2 x 2 feet.
      (6)   Under chimneys for 1-story dwelling: thickness 8 inches; projection
on all sides 4 inches.
      (7)   Under chimneys for dwellings more than 1 story: thickness 12
inches; projection all sides 6 inches.
(1992 Code, § 7-32)
§ 150.041 LOT COVERAGE, BUILDING AREA, FOUNDATIONS.
   (A)   The ground floor area in any detached single family dwelling shall not
be less than 576 square feet.
   (B)   In no case shall the foundation wall thickness be less than that of
the wall supported:
      (1)   Six-inch thickness for poured concrete supporting 1-story wood
frame structures without basement.
      (2)   Eight-inch thickness for all other poured concrete walls.
      (3)   Eight-inch thickness for masonry unit walls which extend not more
than 7 feet below outside finish grade.
      (4)   Ten-inch thickness for masonry unit walls which extend more than 7
feet below outside finished grade.
(1992 Code, § 7-33)
§ 150.042 CHIMNEYS.
   (A)   In no case shall footings be less than 24 inches below grade.
   (B)   Chimneys hereafter erected within or attached to a structure shall be
constructed of brick, solid block masonry, or reinforced concrete built from
the ground up and supported on a masonry footing of self-supporting fireproof
construction.
   (C)   The chimneys shall extend at least 3 feet above the highest point
where they pass through the roof of the building and at least 2 feet higher
than any ridge within 10 feet of the chimney.
   (D)   Chimneys for all heating appliances (except for gas burning
appliances) require flue lining, except chimneys with a solid masonry wall of 8
inches or more. Required flue linings shall be made of fire clay or other
refractory clay to withstand the action of flue gases and temperature of not
less than 2,000°F, or of cast iron of approved quality, form, and construction.
Flue linings shall start from a point not less than 8 inches below the intake
or, in case of fireplaces, from the throat of the fireplace. They shall extend
nearly vertical as possible for the entire height of the chimney. Flue linings
shall be built ahead of the construction of the chimney as it is carried up,
carefully bedded one on the other in mortar with close-fitting joints left
smooth on the inside.
   (E)   Supporting chimneys on wood scaffolding will not be tolerated.
(1992 Code, § 7-34)
§ 150.043 FLOOR AND ROOF FRAMING AROUND CHIMNEYS.
   (A)   All wood floor and roof framing shall be kept at least 2 inches away
from the chimney masonry, except when 8 inches of masonry is used outside the
flue lining, in which case the framing may be built flush with the chimney
masonry.
   (B)   The 2-inch space between the chimney masonry and the floor framing
shall be filled with fire resistant material to form a fire stop.
(1992 Code, § 7-35)
§ 150.044 WOOD POSTS USED FOR GIRDER SUPPORTS.
   (A)   All joints of solid and built-up wood girders shall be made over pier
or column supports.
   (B)   All wood posts, when used as columns in basements, shall bear on a
cement base which shall extend not less than 3 inches above the finished floor.
   (C)   The distance between supports under wood girders shall not exceed the
following:
 
Girder Size (in Inches) Maximum Span, 1-Story Maximum Span, 1-1/2- to 2-
                        Dwelling              Story Dwelling
4 x 10                  5 ft. - 0 in.         4 ft. - 0 in.
6 x 6                   6 ft. - 0 in.         5 ft. - 2 in.
4 x 8                   6 ft. - 4 in.         5 ft. - 6 in.
4 x 10                  8 ft. - 0 in.         7 ft. - 0 in.
6 x 8                   8 ft. - 0 in.         7 ft. - 0 in.
6 x 10                  9 ft. - 0 in.         8 ft. - 0 in.
 
(1992 Code, § 7-36)
§ 150.045 FRAMING INTO MASONRY WALLS.
   (A)   Ends of floor joist framing into masonry walls shall have not less
than 4-inch bearing and shall have at least a 3-inch bevel or fire cut.
   (B)   Each fourth joist in wood floor construction framing into masonry
walls shall have either a metal strap anchor applied on the side and near the
bottom of the joist which shall extend into the masonry wall, or other approved
anchorage.
   (C)   Masonry walls running parallel to the floor joist shall be tied to the
floor construction with metal strap anchors spaced not over 6 feet apart and
extending over and secured to at least 4 joists.
   (D)   All sills and all bearing plats for roof rafter framing into masonry
walls shall be bolted to the masonry walls with 1/2-inch x 18-inch bolts bedded
firmly into the masonry and spaced not more than 8 feet apart.
   (E)   Wherever masonry construction is used over openings in masonry walls,
the masonry shall be supported with steel or reinforced concrete lintels,
properly designed masonry arches, or other approved lintels. In no case shall
masonry over openings in masonry walls be supported by wood timbers.
(1992 Code, § 7-37)
§ 150.046 MINIMUM SIZES OF WOOD FRAMING, STUDDING, CORNER CONSTRUCTION.
   Where wood is permitted the following shall be the minimum size of timbers
used (the allowable spans herein listed are based on use of southern yellow
pine, No. 2 dimension, medium grain):
   (A)   Studding: 2 inch by 4 inch; maximum spacing for all 1- and 2-story
construction shall be 16 inches o.c; 1-story private garage, maximum 24 inches
o.c.
   (B)   Corner construction: Not less than three 2 x 4s set to receive
interior finish.
(1992 Code, § 7-38)
§ 150.047 HEADERS FOR USUAL LOADING CONSTRUCTION.
 
                    Maximum Span
Two 2 x 4s on edge  3 ft. - 6 in.
Two 2 x 6s on edge  4 ft. - 6 in.
Two 2 x 8s on edge  6 ft. - 0 in.
Two 2 x 10s on edge 7 ft. - 6 in.
 
(1992 Code, § 7-39)
§ 150.048 PLATES AND FLOOR AND CEILING JOISTS.
   (A)   Top plates shall be two 2 x 4s, and spliced at all corners.
   (B)   Floor joists:
 
                     Maximum Clean Span
2 x 6 - 16 in. o.c.  10 ft. - 2 in.
2 x 8 - 16 in. o.c.  13 ft. - 8 in.
2 x 10 - 16 in. o.c. 17 ft. - 3 in.
2 x 12 - 16 in. o.c. 20 ft. - 10 in.
 
   (C)   Flat roof joist supporting finished ceiling - same as floor joist.
   (D)   Ceiling joists:
 
                    Limited Attic Storage - No Attic Storage - Maximum Span
                     Maximum Span
2 x 4 - 16 in. o.c.  7 ft. - 4 in.           10 ft. - 6 in.
2 x 6 - 16 in. o.c.  11 ft. - 2 in.          16 ft. - 5 in.
2 x 10 - 16 in. o.c. 15 ft. - 2 in.          21 ft. - 10 in.
 
(1992 Code, § 7-40)
§ 150.049 RAFTERS.
   (A)   For roof slopes greater than 3 in 12. Length from plate to ridge:
 
                     Maximum Span
2 x 4 - 16 in. o.c.  9 ft. - 2 in.
2 x 6 - 16 in. o.c.  14 ft. - 3 in.
2 x 8 - 16 in. o.c.  19 ft. - 0 in.
2 x 10 - 16 in. o.c. 24 ft. - 1 in.
 
   (B)   Ceiling joists shall, wherever possible, serve as ties for the rafters
and shall be securely nailed to the rafters.
(1992 Code, § 7-41)
§ 150.050 FLOOR JOIST AND BRACING.
   (A)   Floor joists shall have a clearance of not less than 12 inches between
the bottom of the joist and the surface of the ground underneath. All sod or
soil containing organic matter must be removed from beneath the building.
Proper ventilation must be provided.
   (B)   Wood sheathing, when laid diagonally on exterior walls, shall be
applied at approximately 45 degrees and extend in opposite directions on each
side adjoining at the corner, and corner bracing will not be required.
   (C)   In all cases, except where diagonal wood sheathing is used, all
external corners shall have diagonal 1 x 4-inch braces set into the outside or
inside face of the studs at approximately 45 degrees and, wherever possible,
shall extend from sill to plate.
(1992 Code, § 7-42)
§ 150.051 ROOMS, SCUTTLE, AND FIRE STOPPING.
   (A)   Windows; ceilings. Habitable rooms shall have 1 or more windows.
Openings shall be at least 10% of the floor area. Every bathroom shall be
ventilated by 1 or more windows or other proper ventilation. Minimum basement
ceiling height 7 feet. Minimum first floor ceiling height 8 feet, minimum
second floor height 7-1/2 feet.
   (B)   Scuttle. An adequate opening for access into each added floor space
shall be provided to allow for inspection, repair, and fire protection.
   (C)   Fire stopping. Partitions, outside stud walls and furring space of
masonry walls shall be fire-stopped at first floor and at attic.
(1992 Code, § 7-43)
§ 150.052 PRIVATE GARAGES.
   For garages not exceeding 600 square feet in area:
   (A)   A garage not exceeding 600 square feet in area and used for the
storage of passenger automobiles or trucks of 1 ton or less capacity may be
attached to or form a part of a residence building or a business building if
separated from other occupancies by walls, partitions, and ceilings of
materials to restrict the passage of gases, smoke, and odor from the garage to
other parts of the building.
   (B)   Materials and construction provided for this purpose shall be at least
equivalent in fire resistance and gas tightness to 1-inch tongue-and-groove
wooden boards, on garage side of supporting studs, free of knot holes, with
gypsum wall boards not less than 3/8 inch in thickness nailed through the
wooden boards into the studs and rafters, using 2-inch nails, and with 4-inch
strips of gypsum wall board and with gypsum plaster fillings at intersection of
walls and of walls with ceilings and floors. Metal lath and gypsum plaster or
gypsum lath and plaster will be acceptable.
   (C)   Openings from the building into garage shall be restricted to a single
doorway; the opening shall be provided with a flush type wooden door of not
less than 1-3/4 inches nominal thickness equipped with an approved self-closing
device.
   (D)   When doorway connects directly with any room in which there is any
direct-fire heating device or gas fixture, it shall have a sill raised at least
8 inches above the garage floor level; or the doorway shall lead into a
vestibule from which a second door connects with the room.
   (E)   Garage floor shall be of concrete, or equally fire resistive and
impervious material, and shall have a slope sufficient to permit natural
drainage of gases, oil, and water to the outside.
   (F)   There shall be no pit in any floor; nor shall there be any artificial
light other than incandescent electric lights. (Section 1305, National Board of
Fire Underwriters.)
(1992 Code, § 7-44)
SANITARY STANDARDS FOR DWELLINGS; MINIMUM BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.065 PLUMBING.
   The plumbing installation within any building or dwelling shall conform with
the Indiana Plumbing Code as adopted in §
150.005.
(1992 Code, § 7-51)
§ 150.066 HEATING.
   All warm air heating systems shall be inspected in accordance with the
standards set forth in the current issue of the Building Code of the National
Board of Fire Underwriters. Permits for the installation are required and
inspection shall be made before any ducts are concealed.
(1992 Code, § 7-52)
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 150.080 ADOPTION OF UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   The provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. are adopted by the town, and
this subchapter shall be known as the Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings with
the jurisdiction of the town for the inspection, repair, demolition, and
removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by Indiana law and the provisions
of these sections. In the event the provisions of these sections conflict with
the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., then the provisions of the state
statutes shall control. The International Property Maintenance Code, dated
2006, together with all amendments to it is adopted as the official property
maintenance code of the town. Two copies of this code are on file and open for
public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office.
   (B)   The administration of the provisions of this subchapter shall be the
responsibility of the Building Commissioner of the town.
(1992 Code, § 7-75) (Ord. 584, § 1, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-28-
2016)
§ 150.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD or TOWN BOARD. The Council of the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana.
   COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION. A citizen’s group, neighborhood association,
neighborhood development corporation, or similar organization that:
      (1)   Has specific geographic boundaries defined in its bylaws or
articles of incorporation and contains at least 40 households within those
boundaries;
      (2)   Is a nonprofit corporation that is representative of at least 25
households or 20% of the households in the community, whichever is less;
      (3)   Is operated primarily for the promotion of social welfare and
general neighborhood improvement and enhancement;
      (4)   Has been incorporated for at least two years; and
      (5)   Is exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
   CONTINUOUS ENFORCEMENT ORDER. Is an order that:
      (1)   Is issued for compliance or abatement and that remains in full
force and effect on a property without further requirements to seek additional:
          (a)   Compliance and abatement authority; or
         (b)   Orders fro the same or similar violations.
      (2)   Authorizes specific ongoing compliance and enforcement activities
if a property requires reinspection or additional periodic abatement;
      (3)   Can be enforced, including assessment of fees and costs, without
the need for additional notice or hearing; and
      (4)   Authorizes the enforcement order to assess and collect ongoing
costs for continuous enforcement order activities from any party that is
subject to the enforcement authority’s order.
   DIRECTOR or ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The appointed person in charge of the
Office of Code Enforcement.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. Person(s) designated as such by the Town Board. An
employee of the Enforcement Authority may not be designated as the Hearing
Authority.
   KNOWN OR RECORDED FEE INTEREST, LIFE ESTATE INTEREST, OR EQUITABLE INTEREST
OF A CONTRACT PURCHASER. Any fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable
interest of a contract purchase held by a person whose identity and address may
be determined from:
      (1)   An instrument recorded in the Recorder’s Office of the county where
the unsafe premises is located;
      (2)   Written information or actual knowledge received by the department;
or
      (3)   A review of department records that is sufficient to identify
information that is reasonable ascertainable.
   KNOWN OR RECORDED SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property,
including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage
interest, a lien as evidenced by a certificate of sale issued under I.C. 6-1.1-
24, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser, that:
      (1)   May be affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this
chapter; and
      (2)   Is held by a person whose identity and address may be determined
from:
         (a)   An instrument recorded in:
            1.   The Recorder’s Office of the county where the unsafe premises
is located; or
            2.   The Office of the County Auditor of the county where the
unsafe premises are located in the case of a lien evidenced by a certificate of
sale issued under I.C. 6-1.1-24;
         (b)   Written information or actual knowledge received by the
department; or
         (c)   A review of department records that is sufficient to identify
information that is reasonably ascertainable.
   OFFICE OF CODE ENFORCEMENT or OFFICE. The Building Commissioner who is
charged with administering this subchapter.
   ORDER. Any written directive issued by the Office of Code Enforcement in
accordance with §
152.082 of this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any entity capable of holding an interest in real estate, including,
but not limited to, individuals and corporations.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest,
estate or equitable interest of a contract purchaser, as defined by I.C. 36-7-
9-2.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. Any unsafe building; or the tract or real estate on which
an unsafe building is located; or any unsafe building and the tract of real
estate on which the unsafe building is located; or any real property that does
not contain a building or structure not including land used for production
agriculture, which is a fire hazard, a hazard to public health, a public
nuisance, or is dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or an ordinance.
   UNSAFE STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. Any building or structure, or any part
thereof, that is in an impaired structural condition or state which renders it
unsafe or dangerous to any person or property; or is a fire hazard; or is a
hazard to the public health; or is a public nuisance; or does not comply with
standards for building condition or maintenance, the violation of which would
be dangerous to any person or property, found in an ordinance enacted by the
Town Council or in state law; or is vacant or blighted and not maintained in a
manner that would allow human habitation, occupancy, or use under  the
requirements of a statute or an ordinance. The standards for building
condition, maintenance and safety, of the State of Indiana, and the town are
incorporated to the extent there are consistent with each other.
(1992 Code, § 7-76) (Ord. 584, § 2, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-28-
2016)
§ 150.082 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICE; ISSUANCE OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may issue an order relative to any
unsafe premises to require action, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Vacation of an unsafe building;
      (2)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion by unauthorized
persons in accordance with uniform standards established by the Town Board;
      (3)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (4)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy, or use found in ordinances enacted by the Town
Board or state laws;
      (5)   Demolition and removal of a portion of an unsafe building if the
general condition of the building warrants removal or the building continues to
require reinspection and additional abatement action after an initial abatement
action was taken pursuant to notice and order;
      (6)   Demolition and removal of an unsafe building if the general
condition of the building warrants removal or the building continues to require
reinspection and additional abatement action after an initial abatement action
was taken pursuant to notice and order;
      (7)   Removal of trash, debris, fire hazardous material, or a public
health hazard in and about the unsafe premises; and
      (8)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a period
of more than 90 days:
         (a)   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
effects of weather;
         (b)   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
         (c)   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and premises.
   (B)   The ordered action shall be reasonably related to the condition of the
unsafe premises and the nature and use of nearby properties.
   (C)   The order shall take precedence over any municipally issued permit
relating to building or land use which is obtained either before or after the
order is issued.
   (D)   The force of an order shall expire two years from the day the notice
of the order is given, unless one or more of the following events occur within
the two-year period:
      (1)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed in accordance with
§
150.089 of this subchapter;
      (2)   Work is let out at public bid to a contractor to perform action
required by an order in accordance with §
150.094 of this subchapter; or
      (3)   A civil action is file in the Circuit or Superior Court in
accordance with §
150.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   An order issued under divisions (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of
this section, or an order of noncompliance of §
150.088(H) becomes final ten days after notice is given, unless a hearing is
requested before the ten day period ends by a person holding a fee interest,
life estate interest, mortgage interest, or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(1992 Code, § 7-77) (Ord. 584, § 3, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-28-
2016)
§ 150.083 CONTENTS OF ORDERS.
   (A)   Any order shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that is the
subject of the order;
      (3)   The action which the order requires to be accomplished;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is given;
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
palce of the hearing regarding the order; and that the person to whom the order
was issued has a right to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel
and present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and make argument;
      (6)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
Office of Code Enforcement if the order is not complied with;
      (7)   A statement indicating the obligation created by §
150.091 relating to notification of subsequent interest holders and the Office
of Code Enforcement;
      (8)   The name, address, and telephone number of the Office of Code
Enforcement; and
      (9)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that an order under (A)
(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of §
150.082 becomes final ten days after notice is given, unless a hearing is
requested in writing by a person of substantial property interest and the
request is delivered to the Office of Code Enforcement before the end of the
ten day period.
   (B)   The order shall allow sufficient time in which to accomplish the
required action. In no case shall less than ten calendar days from the time
when notice of the order is given be allowed for compliance with an order.
   (C)   In the instance where more than 30 calendar days are allowed by the
order to accomplish the action, the order may require that a substantial
beginning be made in accomplishing the action within a period of 30 calendar
days.
   (D)   If an order is for the removal of an unsafe building or portion of an
unsafe building under divisions (A)(5) or (A)(6) above, notice of the order
shall be given to each person with a known or recorded substantial property
interest.
(1992 Code, § 7-78) (Ord. 584, § 4, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-28-
2016)
§ 150.084 SERVICE OF ORDERS.
   If service of the order is by publication, the publication shall include the
information required by divisions (A)(1), (2), (4), (5), (6), (8), and (9) of §
150.083 and also a statement indicating generally what action is required by
the order and that the exact terms of the order may be obtained from the Office
of Code Enforcement.
(1992 Code, § 7-79) (Ord. 584, § 5, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-28-
2016)
§ 150.085 MODIFICATION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may issue an order to a person which
has the effect of modifying the order previously issued to that person.
   (B)   If service of the previously issued order was by publication, it shall
be sufficient to serve the subsequent order by publication unless the Office of
Code Enforcement has received information in writing that would enable it to
make service in accordance with §
150.087 of this subchapter by a method other than publication.
(1992 Code, § 7-80) (Ord. 584, § 6, passed - -1981)
§ 150.086 RESCISSION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may at any time rescind an order.
   (B)   All persons who have been issued an order shall be notified of its
rescission pursuant to §
150.087 by means of a written statement which shall include the information
required by I.C. 36-7-9-6.
(1992 Code, § 7-81) (Ord. 584, § 7, passed - -1981)
§ 150.087 SERVICE OF ORDERS AND STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Notice of orders (including orders which have the effect of modifying
a previous order), notice of statements of rescission, notice of continued
hearings, notice of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice that
a hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record shall be given to
all persons to whom directed by the following manner of service:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by registered or by
registered mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the
person to be notified with return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling house or
usual place of abode of the person to be notified.
   (B)   In the event service is not obtained by a means described above, after
reasonable effort, service may be made by publishing a notice of the order or
statement at least 2 times in a newspaper authorized by law to publish notices,
which is published in the county where the unsafe premises are located.
Publication may be made on consecutive days.
   (C)   When service is made by any of the means described in this section
except by mailing or by publication, the person making service shall make an
affidavit stating that he or she has made the service, the manner in which made
to whom the order or statement was issued, the nature of the order or statement
and the date of service. The affidavit shall be placed on file in the Office of
Code Enforcement.
   (D)   The time when notice of the order or statement is deemed given is as
follows:
      (1)   In case of personal delivery or leaving at the dwelling house or
usual place of abode, the day when the order or statement is delivered to the
person or left at his or her dwelling house or usual place of abode;
      (2)   In the case of mailing, the date shown on the return receipt, or if
no date is shown, the date when the return receipt is received by the Office of
Code Enforcement; and
      (3)   In the case of publication, the date of the second day that
publication was made.
(1992 Code, § 7-82) (Ord. 584, § 8, passed - -1981)
§ 150.088 HEARINGS; NOTICE; PROCEDURE; NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A hearing shall be held relative to each order, except for an order
issued under division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A(4), or (A)(5) of §
150.082 or an order of noncompliance of division (H) below. The hearing shall
be conducted by the Hearing Authority.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than ten
calendar days after notice of the order is given. The Director may, however,
take action at a hearing to continue the hearing relative to the order so that
it will be held on a later business day. Unless the Director takes action to
have the continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the
hearing shall be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
calendar days before the hearing date in the manner provided by §
150.087.
   (C)   The person to whom the order was issued, or any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises which are the subject of
the order may appear in person or by counsel at the hearing. the person shall
have the opportunity to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and
make argument.
   (D)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not granted
the Director may, irrespective of whether the person does or does not appear at
the hearing, make findings and take action to either: affirm the order; rescind
the order; or modify the order; provided, however, that unless the person to
whom the order was issued, or counsel for the person, is present at the
hearing, the Director shall have authority only to modify the order in such
manner as to make its terms less stringent.
   (E)   In addition to affirming the order, in those cases in which the
Hearing Authority finds that there has been a willful failure to comply with
the order, the Hearing Authority may impose a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 as provided by I.C. 36-7-9-7(e). The effective date of the civil
penalty may be postponed for a reasonable period, after which the Hearing
Authority may order the civil penalty reduce or stricken if the Hearing
Authority is satisfied that all work necessary to fully comply with the order
has been done. For purposes of an appeal under § 150.089 or enforcement of an
order through a civil action under § 150.098, the action of the Hearing
Authority is considered final upon the affirmation of the order, even though
the Hearing Authority may retain jurisdiction for the ultimate determination
related to the civil penalty. In the Hearing Authority’s exercise of continuing
jurisdiction, the Hearing Authority may, in addition to reducing or striking
the civil penalty, impose one or more additional civil penalties in an amount
not to exceed $5,000 per civil penalty. An additional civil penalty may be
imposed if the Hearing Authority finds that:
      (1)   Significant work on the premises to comply with the affirmed order
has not been accomplished; and
      (2)   The premises have a negative effect on property values or the
quality of life of the surrounding area or the premises require the provision
of services by local government in excess of the services required by ordinary
properties.
   (F)   If the person to whom the order was issued to repair or rehabilitate
under (A)(4) of §
150.082 fails or refuses to comply with the order within 60 days or the time
specified in the order, the Enforcement Authority may impose a civil penalty
not to exceed $2,500. The Enforcement Authority shall give notice of the civil
penalty to all person with a known or recorded substantial property interest in
the unsafe premises.
      (1)   After a civil penalty is imposed the Enforcement Authority may
impose an additional civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $1,000 every 90
days if the person to whom the order was issued continues to fail or refuse to
comply with the order.
      (2)   If a civil penalty under this section is unpaid for more than 15
days after payment of the civil penalty is due, the civil penalty may be
collected in the same manner as costs under §
150.094(H). The amount of the civil penalty that is collected shall be
deposited in the unsafe building fund.
   (G)   If a person to whom an order has been issued requests at a hearing a
period of time to accomplish action beyond that time stated in the order, the
Director may, as a condition for modifying the order to allow the additional
time period, require that the person post a cash performance bond to be
forfeited in the event that the order action is not completed within the
additional time period allowed. The amount of the bond shall be equal to 30% of
the value of the services and materials required to accomplish the ordered
action.
   (H)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the Hearing
Authority at the hearing shall be available the public upon request. No
provision in this chapter shall be construed to require affirmative action be
the Office of Code Enforcement or the Hearing Authority to give notice of the
findings made and action taken by the Hearing Authority at the hearing to the
person to whom the order was issued, or any other person.
(1992 Code, § 7-83) (Ord. 584, § 9, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-28-
2016)
§ 150.089 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   An action for judicial review of any proceedings under this subchapter may
be taken pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-8.
(1992 Code, § 7-84) (Ord. 584, § 10, passed - -1981)
§ 150.090 RECORDING ORDERS, STATEMENTS AND RECORDS; EFFECT.
   (A)   Orders issued in accordance with §§
150.082 or
150.085, statements of rescission issued in accordance with § 150.086,
statements that public bids are to be let as provided in §
150.094, and records of action taken by the Director in accordance with §
150.088, shall be recorded in the Office of the Recorder of the county by the
Office of Code enforcement at no charge.
   (B)   The effect of orders and administrative acts under this subchapter
upon property interest in unsafe premises shall be governed by the provisions
of I.C. 36-7-9-26 and I.C. 36-7-9-27.
(1992 Code, § 7-85) (Ord. 584, § 11, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-
28-2016)
§ 150.091 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   (A)   If in any instance the Office of Code Enforcement shall find that it
is necessary to take emergency action with reference to an unsafe premises in
order to protect life, safety, or property, the office may cause such action as
is necessary to protect life, safety, or property to be performed without
issuing an order or giving notice.
   (B)   This emergency action shall be limited to removing any immediate
danger. The: costs incurred by the Office of Code Enforcement in taking or
having the action taken may be recovered against the persons who have, a fee
interest or life estate interest in the unsafe premises by the filing of a
civil action in the circuit or superior court of the county by the town.
   (C)   If an unsafe premises poses an immediate danger to the life or safety
of persons occupying or using nearby property, the enforcement authority may,
without following this chapter's requirements for issuing an order and giving
notice, take emergency action to require persons to vacate and not use the
nearby property until the danger has passed. However, any person required to
vacate an unsafe premises under this subsection may challenge in an emergency
court proceeding the Enforcement Authority's determination that the premises
poses an immediate danger to the life or safety of any person. In an emergency
court proceeding, the enforcement authority has the burden of proving that
emergency action is necessary to protect from immediate danger the life or
safety of persons occupying or using nearby property.
   (D)   Instead of filing a civil action to recover the costs incurred by the
Enforcement Authority in taking emergency action, the Enforcement Authority may
set a hearing for the Hearing Authority to review the necessity of the
emergency action and the amount of the costs of the emergency action. Notice of
the hearing must be provided to each person with a known or recorded
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises. If the emergency action
or the costs of the emergency action are determined by the Hearing Authority to
have been an abuse of discretion or otherwise unlawful, the hearing authority
may reduce or deny the costs of the emergency action as warranted under the
circumstances; otherwise, the Hearing Authority shall affirm the costs of the
emergency action.
(1992 Code, § 7-86) (Ord. 584, § 12, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-
28-2016)
§ 150.092 RECEIVERS.
   Eligibility for appointment as a receiver for unsafe premises, and powers
and other matters concerned with receivership under this subchapter shall be
governed by the applicable provision of the state law, I.C. 36-7-9-20 and I.C.
36-7-9-20.5.
(1992 Code, § 7-87) (Ord. 584, § 13, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-
28-2016)
§ 150.093 PERFORMANCE BY CONTRACTOR; PUBLIC BIDS; PROCEDURE; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may cause the action required by an
order issued under (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of §
150.082 to be performed by a contractor if the following has occurred:
      (1)   Service of an order in the manner provided by §
150.087 has been made on each person having a substantial property interest in
the unsafe premises which are the subject of the order;
      (2)   The order has not been complied with;
      (3)   A hearing was not requested under (A)(9) of §
150.083, or, if a hearing was requested, the order was affirmed at the hearing;
and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed in accordance with §
150.089.
   (B)   The Office of Code Enforcement may cause the action required by an
order, other than an order issued under (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of §
150.082 to be performed if the following has occurred:
      (1)   An order has been issued to each person having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   Service of an order in the manner provided by §
150.087 has been made on each person having a substantial property interest in
the unsafe premises which are the subject of the order;
      (3)   Each of the orders have been affirmed or modified at hearing in
such manner that all persons having a substantial property interest in the
unsafe premises which are the subject of each of the orders are currently
subject to an order requiring the accomplishment of substantially identical
action;
      (4)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with, or having once been complied with, is not now being complied
with; and
      (5)   The order is not being reviewed in accordance with §
150.089.
   (C)   The work shall be let out at public bid to a contractor licensed and
duly qualified under the laws of the state and any applicable municipal
ordinances.
   (D)   All persons with a substantial property interest in the unsafe premise
shall be notified about the public bid in accordance with §
150.087 by means of a written statement, which shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order was issued;
      (2)   A legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order;
      (3)   A statement that a contract is to be let at public bid to a
licensed contractor to accomplish work to comply with the order;
      (4)   A description of work to be accomplished;
      (5)   A statement that both the bid price of the licensed contractor who
accomplishes the work and an amount representing a reasonable estimate of the
cost incurred by the Office of Code Enforcement in processing the matter of the
unsafe premises, may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien
against all persons having a fee interest or life estate interest in the unsafe
premises;
      (6)   A statement that the owner has the right to elect in writing within
a period of five calendar days to retain any or all materials salvaged from the
work;
      (7)   The time of the bid opening;
      (8)   The place of the bid opening; and
      (9)   The name, address, and telephone number of the Office of Code
Enforcement.
   (E)   If service of the notice of statement that public bids are to be let
is by publication, the publication shall include the information provided for
in division (D) of this section except that it need only include a general
description off the work to be accomplished. The publication also shall include
a statement that a copy of the statement of public bid may be obtained from the
Office of Code Enforcement.
   (F)   Notice of the statement that public bids are to be let shall be given
to all persons having a substantial property interest in the property at least
ten calendar days before the date of the public bid.
   (G)   Persons having a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises
which are the subject of a statement that public bids are to be let may, as
their interest allows, within a period of five calendar days after they have
received notice, elect by sending a statement in writing resulting or salvaged
from the work. In the absence of such a statement, the Office of Code
Enforcement may decide the method of disposal of materials.
   (H)   If action in accordance with this section is being taken on the basis
of an order which was served by publication, it shall be sufficient to serve
the statement that public bids are to be let by publication unless the Office
of Code Enforcement has received information in writing that would enable it to
make service in accordance with §
150.087 by a method other than publication.
(1992 Code, § 7-88) (Ord. 594, § 14, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-
28-2016)
§ 150.094 PERFORMANCE BY CONTRACTORS; LIABILITY OF OWNERS; LIEN; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The work required by an order of the Enforcement Authority may be
performed in the following manner:
      (1)   If the work is being performed other than under an order other than
an order under (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of §
150.082 and if the cost of this work is estimated to be less than $10,000, the
Office of Code enforcement may perform the work acting through the unit’s
Enforcement Authority or other agent, by means of the unit’s own workers and
equipment owned or leased by the unit. Notice that this work is to be performed
must be given to all persons with a known or recorded substantial property
interest, in the manner prescribed in division (C) below, at least ten days
before the date of performance of the work by the Enforcement Authority. This
notice must include a statement than an amount representing a reasonable
estimate of the cost incurred by the Enforcement Authority in processing the
matter and performing the work may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as
a lien against all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest, or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
      (2)   If the work is being performed under an order other than an order
under (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of §
150.082, and if the estimated cost of this work is $10,000 or more this work
must be let at public bid to a contractor licensed and qualified under law. The
obligation to pay costs imposed by division (G) of this section is based on the
condition of the unsafe premises at the time the public bid was accepted.
Changes occurring in the condition of the unsafe premises after the public bid
was accepted. Changes occurring in the condition of the unsafe premises afte
the public bid was accepted do not eliminate or diminish this obligation.
      (3)   If the work is being performed under an order issued under (A)(2),
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of §
150.082, the work may be performed by a contractor who has been awarded a base
bid contract to perform the work for the Enforcement Authority, or be the
Department, acting through the unit’s Enforcement Authority or other
governmental agency and using the unit’s own workers and equipment owned or
leased by the unit. Work performed under an order issued under (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4) or (A)(5) of §
150.082 may be performed without further notice to the persons holding a fee
interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser,
and these persons are liable for the costs incurred by the Enforcement
Authority in processing the matter and performing the work.
   (B)   Bids may be solicited and accepted for work on more than one property
if the bid reflects an allocation of the bid amount among the various unsafe
premises in proportion to the work to be accomplished. The part of the bid
amount attributable to each of the unsafe premises constitutes the basis for
calculating the part of the costs described by division (G).
   (C)   All persons who have a known or recorded substantial property interest
int eh unsafe premises and are subject to an order other than an order under
(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) f §
150.082 must be notified about the public bid by means of a written statement
including:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order was issued;
      (2)   A legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order;
      (3)   A statement that a contract is to be let at public bid to a
licensed contractor to accomplish work to comply with the order;
      (4)   A description of work to be accomplished;
      (5)   A statement that both the bid price of the licensed contractor who
accomplishes the work and an amount representing a reasonable estimate of the
cost incurred by the Enforcement Authority in processing the matter of the
unsafe premises may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien against
all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest
of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (6)   The time of the bid opening;
      (7)   The place of the bid opening; and
      (8)   The name, address, and telephone number of the Enforcement
Authority.
   (D)   If the notice of the statement that public bids are to be let is
served by publication, the publication must include the information required by
division (C), except that it need only include a general description of the
work to be accomplished. The publication must also state that a copy of the
statement of public bid may be obtained from the Enforcement Authority.
   (E)   Notice of the statement that public bids are to be let must be given,
at least ten days before the date of the public bid, to all person who have a
known or recorded substantial property interest in the property and are subject
to an order other than an order under (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of §
150.082.
   (F)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
public bids are to be let by publication, unless the Enforcement Authority has
received information in writing that enables the unit to make service under §
150.093 by a method other than publication.
   (G)   When action required by an order is performed by a contractor in
accordance with § 150.093, any person or persons who have a fee interest or
life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the
unsafe premises from the time when the order requiring the work performed was
issued to the time that the work was completed, or if emergency action was
taken under §
150.093 of this chapter, during the time of such emergency action, is jointly
and severally responsible for:
      (1)   (a)   The actual cost of the emergency action taken, as affirmed by
the Hearing Authority; or
         (b)   Actual cost of the work performed by the Enforcement Authority
or the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor.
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the Enforcement Authority in taking
the technical, administrative, and legal actions concerning typical unsafe
premises that are necessary under this chapter so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor. In calculating the amount of the
average processing expense, the following costs may be considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of persons who own a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises;
         (b)   The cost of notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, notice of statements that public bids
are to be let or that the Enforcement Authority intends to accomplish the work,
and notice that a hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record.
         (c)   Salaries for employees.
         (d)   The cost of supplies, equipment, and office space.
      (3)   The Board of Commission having control over the department shall
determine the amount of the average processing expense at the public hearing,
after notice has been given in the same manner as is required for other
official action of the Board or Commission. In determining the average
processing expense, the Board of Commission may fix the amount at a full dollar
amount that is an even multiple of ten.
   (H)   The calculation of amounts under this section, and the perfection and
enforcement of liens or those amounts shall be governed by the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-9-13, I.C. 36-7-9-13.5, and I.C. 36-7-9-19.
(1992 Code, § 7-89) (Ord. 584, § 15, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-
28-2016)
§ 150.095 FUNDS AND FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION.
   All funds and financial administration for the implementation and
administration of this subchapter shall be governed by the provision of I.C.
36-7-9-14 and I.C. 36-7-9-15 and other applicable state law.
(1992 Code, § 7-90) (Ord. 584, § 16, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-
28-2016)
§ 150.096 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   In those cases in which the owners or those in possession of a
building refuse inspection, and inspection, an inspection officer in the Office
of Code Enforcement may obtain an inspection warrant from any court of record
in the county in which the building is located in order to determine if the
building is an unsafe building.
   (B)   The court shall issue the warrant subject to and in accordance with
the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-16.
   (C)   A warrant issued under this section is valid for only 48 hours after
its issuance, must be personally served upon the owner or possessor of the
building, and must be returned within 72 hours.
(1992 Code, § 7-91) (Ord. 584, § 17, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-
28-2016)
§ 150.097 CIVIL ACTION BY TOWN.
   (A)   The town may initiate a civil action with regard to unsafe premises
for the purposes of accomplishing the objectives and purposes of this
subchapter and the applicable state law.
   (B)   The civil action shall be governed by the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-17
et seq.
(1992 Code, § 7-92) (Ord. 584, § 18, passed - -1981)
VIOLATIONS
§ 150.110 VIOLATIONS; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any structure, razed or converted, or land or premises used in violation of
any provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a common nuisance, and
the owner of the structure, land, or premises shall be liable for maintaining a
common nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 7-69) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.111 NON-ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   This Code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any person, firm, or corporation doing work for
an owner for damages to persons or property caused by any defect therein, nor
shall the town or the Building Commissioner be held to assume any liability by
reason of the examination authorized by law or by the codes herein, or by the
certificates of approval of the Building Commissioner.
(1992 Code, § 7-70)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.001 through
150.028, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner is connection with the provisions of this
subchapter each such violation, failure, or refusal, the person firm or
corporation shall be fined as set forth in the fee schedule,
Chapter 98. Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the firs
sentence of this division shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties provided in §
150.088, any person who shall remain in, use, or enter any building or
structure in violation of an order; or willfully interfere with or delay the
carrying out of an order; or violate any provision of §§
150.080 through
150.097 by willfully obstructing, delaying, damaging, injuring, or interfering
with any persons engaged or property used in performing any work or duty under
or authorized by this subchapter; or fail to comply with the requirements of
I.C. 36-7-9-28, shall be guilty of a Class C infraction and upon conviction
shall be fined as set forth in the fee schedule,
Chapter 98. Each day that the violation shall continue to exist, or each
distinct repetition of any violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
(1992 Code, §§ 7-20 and 7-93) (Ord. 584, § 19, passed - -1981; Am. Ord. 706, §
20, passed 9-5-1990; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 6-28-2016)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Basic Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Authority
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Effective date
   
151.005   Eminent domain and use–United States of America or State of Indiana
owned property
   
151.006   Interpretation
   
151.007   Jurisdiction
   
151.008   Findings
   
151.009   Private provisions
   
151.010   Saving provision
   
151.011   Transition rules for applications for primary plat approval,
secondary plat approval, or the vacation of plats or parts of plats
   
151.012   Amendments
   
151.013   Compliance
   
151.014   Incorporation by reference
Permits
   
151.025   Improvement location permits
   
151.026   Recording required for issuance of an improvement location permit
Hearings
   
151.040   Plat Committee authority to hear plats and replats
   
151.041   Plan Commission authority to hear vacations of plats or parts of
plats
   
151.042   Town Council authority to hear vacations of public way or place and
platted easements
   
151.043   Appeals from determination of the Plat Committee
   
151.044   Appeals from determination of the Plan Commission
Plat Procedures, Plans, and Surety
   
151.055   Plat procedures; introduction and intent
   
151.056   Overview of plat approval process
   
151.057   Minor subdivisions
   
151.058   Major subdivisions
   
151.059   Subdivision replats
   
151.060   Corrective secondary plats
   
151.061   Completion and maintenance of improvements
Requirements for Design, Reservations, and Improvements
   
151.075   General improvements
   
151.076   Lots
   
151.077   Streets
   
151.078   Sidewalks
   
151.079   Monumentation
   
151.080   Drainage
   
151.081   Water facilities
   
151.082   Sewage facilities
   
151.083   Electric facilities
   
151.084   Utilities
   
151.085   Public sites
Waivers
   
151.095   Generally
   
151.096   Waivers of Subdivision Control Ordinance regulations
   
151.097   Waiver guidelines
   
151.098   Procedures for review of waiver requests
   
151.099   Jurisdiction of waivers
Vacation of Land in a Plat
   
151.110   Jurisdiction
   
151.111   Vacation of land in a plat by the Plan Commission
   
151.112   Notice of Plat Committee action
   
151.113   Appeals
Definitions
   
151.125   Interpretation of terms or words
   
151.126   Definitions
   
Appendix A:   Performance Bond for Subdivision Improvements
   
Appendix B:   Irrevocable Letter of Credit for Subdivision Improvements
   
Appendix C:   Maintenance Bond for Subdivision Improvements
   
Appendix D:   Release of Performance Bond
   
Appendix E:   Release of Irrevocable Letter of Credit
   
Appendix F:   Release of Maintenance Bond
   
Appendix G:   Letter of Compliance
   
Appendix H:   Completion Letter
   
Appendix I:    Findings of Fact of Vacation of Land in a Plat
BASIC PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereinafter be known and cited as “Town of New Carlisle
Subdivision Control Ordinance” or “this chapter.”
(Ord. 1223, § 1.1, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.002 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in I.C.
36-7-4 et seq.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of
the Indiana Code and that section is later amended or superseded, this chapter
shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the section that
most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.2, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.003 PURPOSE.
   In adopting this chapter, the Town Council is acting for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare;
   (B)   Guiding the future development of the town in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and related policies and objectives;
   (C)   Securing adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from
fire, flood, and other danger;
   (D)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in public ways;
   (E)   Providing adequate and efficient public and private facilities and the
conservation of natural resources;
   (F)   Providing for the safety, comfort, and soundness of the built
environment; and
   (G)   Otherwise accomplishing the purposes of I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.3, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective at 12:01 a.m., on the first day of
___________, 20___.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.4, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.005 EMINENT DOMAIN AND USE–UNITED STATES OF AMERICA OR STATE OF INDIANA
OWNED PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any rules, regulations, or orders issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to restrict or regulate or to
authorize any unit of government, legislative body, Plan Commission, or Board
of Zoning Appeals now or hereafter established, to restrict or regulate the
exercise of the power of eminent domain by the State of Indiana or by any
agency of the State of Indiana, or the use of property owned or occupied by the
State of Indiana or any agency of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.7, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.006 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and the general welfare of the public. In
the case of any conflict or inconsistency between 2 or more provisions of this
chapter or any other ordinance of the town, the provision which imposes the
greater or higher or more restrictive standard of performance shall control.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.8, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.007 JURISDICTION.
   Upon adoption of this chapter by the Town Council and the effective date of
this chapter, the Area Plan Commission shall have exclusive control over the
approval of plats, replats, and the vacation of plats or parts of plats
involving all real property located within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.9, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.008 FINDINGS.
   In adopting this chapter, the Town Council has paid reasonable regard to:
   (A)   The general polices and patterns of development set out in the
Comprehensive Plan for the town;
   (B)   Current conditions and the character of current structures and uses in
each zoning district;
   (C)   The conservation of property values throughout the town; and
   (D)   The responsible development and growth of the town.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.10, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.009 PRIVATE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant, or other private agreement or restriction.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.11, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.010 SAVING PROVISION.
   Except as shall be expressly provided for in this chapter, the adoption of
this chapter shall not: abate any action pending under, or by virtue of, any
prior subdivision control ordinance; discontinue, abate, modify, or alter any
penalty accruing or about to accrue under, or by virtue of, any prior
subdivision control ordinance; affect the liability of any person, firm, or
corporation under, or by virtue of, any prior subdivision control ordinance;
waive any right of the town under any section or provision of any prior
subdivision control ordinance; or vacate or annul any rights obtained by any
person, firm, or corporation by lawful action of the town under, or by virtue
of, any prior subdivision control ordinance.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.12, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.011 TRANSITION RULES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL,
SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL, OR THE VACATION OF PLATS OR PARTS OF PLATS.
   Any application for primary plat approval, secondary plat approval, or the
vacation of plats or parts of plats which has been filed with the Executive
Director of the Area Plan Commission and which application is full and complete
under the provisions of the Subdivision Regulations (Ord. 1221, as amended)
prior to the effective date of this chapter shall continue to be processed to
completion pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Subdivision Regulations
(Ord. 1221, as amended).
(Ord. 1223, § 1.13, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.012 AMENDMENTS.
   In its continuing administration of the purposes set forth in §
151.003 above, the Town Council may find it reasonable and necessary to propose
and adopt amendments to the text of this chapter. All such amendments shall be
considered and adopted in compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., the
provisions of this chapter, and any applicable rules of procedure subsequently
adopted by the Area Plan Commission or the Town Council governing such
procedures.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.14, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.013 COMPLIANCE.
   Compliance with the terms and provision of this chapter shall be a
prerequisite for the use and development of real property within the town.
Failure to comply with the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
to be a civil zoning violation enforceable by the Zoning Administrator as
provided for in I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. and §§
152.405 through
152.413.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.15, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.014 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   Throughout the various subchapters of this chapter, reference is made to
other regulations of the Town of New Carlisle, and each such regulation is
hereby incorporated by this referenced into this chapter. Two copies of each
such regulation of the town are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town and are available for public inspection.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.18, passed 5-11-2010)
PERMITS
§ 151.025 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   No improvement location permit shall be issued for any building, structure,
or improvement unless the location of the building, structure, or improvement
conforms with the applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and this
chapter.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.16, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.026 RECORDING REQUIRED FOR ISSUANCE OF AN IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   No improvement location permit for any building, structure, or
improvement shall be issued for any lot within a subdivision prior to a copy of
the properly signed and recorded secondary plat of that subdivision being filed
with the Area Plan Commission.
   (B)   Exception: A conditional improvement location permit and certificate
of zoning compliance for the construction and use of a permitted temporary use
(including 2 model homes, construction office, or similar related use) within
the real estate affected by a subdivision may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator after all construction plans for required improvements have been
approved by the town. If the temporary use is a model home, the model home
shall not be converted to a residential use prior to the installation,
inspection, and approval of all required improvements that directly or
indirectly affect the model home and upon secondary approval of the
subdivision.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.17, passed 5-11-2010)
HEARINGS
§ 151.040 PLAT COMMITTEE AUTHORITY TO HEAR PLATS AND REPLATS.
   The Plat Committee of the Area Plan Commission for the county is hereby
designated as the Plat Committee for the town. The authority to hold hearing on
and approve plats and replats is hereby delegated to the Plat Committee.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.19, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.041 PLAN COMMISSION AUTHORITY TO HEAR VACATIONS OF PLATS OR PARTS OF
PLATS.
   The authority to hold hearings on the vacation of plats or parts of plats is
reserved for the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.20, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.042 TOWN COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO HEAR VACATIONS OF PUBLIC WAY OR PLACE AND
PLATTED EASEMENTS.
   The authority to hold hearings on the vacation of: public ways or places; or
platted easements, within the corporate limits of the town is reserved to the
Town Council.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.21, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.043 APPEALS FROM DETERMINATIONS OF THE PLAT COMMITTEE.
   Determinations of the Plat Committee regarding the approval or disapproval
of a plat or replat may be appealed by an applicant or other interested party
to the Area Plan Commission. A notice of such appeal shall be filed with the
Area Plan Commission within 10 days after the action of the Plat Committee.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.22, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.044 APPEALS FROM DETERMINATION OF THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   Determinations of the Area Plan Commission relating to this chapter,
including determinations of appeals from the Plat Committee and determinations
of vacations of plats or parts of plats, may be reviewed by certiorari
procedure. The appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the date of the decision
upon which the grievance is based.
(Ord. 1223, § 1.23, passed 5-11-2010)
PLAT PROCEDURES, PLANS, AND SURETY
§ 151.055 PLAT PROCEDURES; INTRODUCTION AND INTENT.
   (A)   The subdivision process is intended to assure that all platted lots
created for sale: are buildable lots that comply with the standards set forth
in the Zoning Ordinance and the Subdivision Control Ordinance; and are provided
with all the services and utilities required for initial development and the
continued use and enjoyment of the lot by the owner. To accomplish this
purpose, a drawing of the proposed subdivision, known as a plat, is submitted
for review and approval. The review and approval process takes place on 2
levels: a primary plat approval, and a secondary plat approval. The primary
plat review is where the overall concept of a proposed subdivision is reviewed
for its ability to comply with all zoning, subdivision, and other regulations
applicable to development (including but not limited to erosion control,
sanitary sewer, potable water, storm sewer, and street standards). The
secondary plat review is where the specific details of the subdivision are
approved and authorized for recording so that the sale of a buildable lot may
legally occur. The procedures contained in this subchapter describe how the
plat drawings are prepared and reviewed.
   (B)   Within the primary plat process, depending on the nature and
complexity of the proposed development, a subdivision may be classified as
either a minor subdivision or a major subdivision. A minor subdivision is a
division of land into a very limited number of lots where there is no need for
the extension of streets or utilities. A major subdivision involves a larger
number of lots, street or utility extensions. Primary plats may also include
re-plats as described below. See §§
151.125 and
151.126 for a more detailed explanation of each type of primary plat.
   (C)   Secondary plats may be approved for recording in 1 of 2 ways: complete
all the improvements necessary to provide buildable, serviced lots in
accordance with approved construction plans, demonstrate compliance with all
conditions imposed on the primary plat by the Area Plan Commission and provide
a bond for their maintenance prior to final approval and recording; or provide
performance bonds to assure the completion of all construction activities
necessary to provide buildable, serviced lots in accordance with approved
construction plans and demonstrate compliance with all conditions imposed on
the primary plat by the Area Plan Commission. The performance bonds will be
replaced with maintenance bonds as individual construction elements or phases
are completed. Secondary plats may also include corrective plats as described
below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1223, § 2.1, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.056 OVERVIEW OF PLAT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   All requests for platting shall follow the procedures as generally outlined
below, and as more specifically set forth in §§
151.057,
151.058,
151.059,
151.060, or
151.061.
   (A)   Primary plat filing procedures.
      (1)   Subdivision plats shall be initiated by the filing of a notarized
petition, in a form as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission, signed by the
owners or an authorized agent of the owners of the land involved in the
petition. An authorized agent shall file a written statement signed by the
owner at the time of filing a petition which authorizes the agent to act on the
owner’s behalf.
      (2)   The Area Plan Commission has delegated the review and approval
authority for subdivision plats to the Plat Committee.
      (3)   Petitions for Primary Plat approval shall be filed with the Area
Plan Commission no later than 12:00 p.m. on the day of the filing deadline set
forth under “Subdivision Dates” of the Plat Committee schedule adopted annually
by the Area Plan Commission.
      (4)   When findings of fact are required by this chapter, the petitioner
shall prepare proposed detailed written findings of fact which shall be filed
at the time of filing of the petition.
      (5)   All petitions shall specify the approvals requested. Any items,
including proposed waivers of the standards set forth in this chapter, even if
indicated on the proposed plans, shall not be considered a part of the request
presented for consideration unless such waivers are specified in the petition.
      (6)   Each petition filed in proper form pursuant to the guidelines
established by the Area Plan Commission shall, within 30 days of filing, be
numbered and docketed by the Executive Director for review by the Plat
Committee.
   (B)   Primary plat standards for approval. Primary plats shall only be
approved by the Plat Committee upon determination that the primary plat is in
full compliance with all terms and provisions of this chapter, the town Zoning
Ordinance, and that:
      (1)   Adequate provisions have been made for regulation of minimum lot
width, minimum lot depth, and minimum lot area;
      (2)   Adequate provisions have been made for the widths, grades, curves
and coordination of subdivision public ways with current and planned public
ways; and
      (3)   Adequate provisions have been made for the extension of water,
sewer, and other municipal services.
   (C)   Primary plat conditions of approval. The Plat Committee may specify
reasonable conditions on the approval of a primary plat related to the
following:
      (1)   The manner in which public ways shall be laid out, graded, and
improved. The Plat Committee may determine the need for additional street
rights-of-way and improvements based upon existing plans, reports, or studies
undertaken by the Area Plan Commission, or other county, state, or federal
agency’s reports or studies. The Plat Committee may require additional studies
to be done by the subdivider or other professional consulting firms to
determine the need for additional street rights-of-way and improvements as a
result of the proposed development and its impact on the surrounding areas;
      (2)   A provision for water, sewage, electric, and other utility
services;
      (3)   A provision for lot size, number, and location;
      (4)   A provision for drainage design;
      (5)   A provision for other services specified in this chapter; and
      (6)   Technical, drafting, or other minor corrections being made to the
primary plat.
   (D)   Secondary plat approval.  
      (1)   Secondary plats are approved administratively by staff upon
providing an accurate and complete secondary plat drawing and proof that the
improvements required by the primary plat approval have either been:
         (a)   Completed to the appropriate construction standards and bonds
for the maintenance thereof have been provided; or
         (b)   Performance bonds have been provided to assure the completion of
these required improvements to the appropriate construction standards.
      (2)   All conditions imposed by the Area Plan Commission on the approval
of the primary plat have been complied with.
(Ord. 1223, § 2.2, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.057 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The minor subdivision process is intended to provide a streamlined process
for the platting and development of a limited number of lots where the creation
or extension of streets, water lines, sewer lines, or other public improvements
is not required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
 
   (A)   Consultation encouraged.
      (1)   Prior to the submission of a minor subdivision, the subdivider is
encouraged to consult informally with the staff. This will create an
understanding between the staff and the subdivider which may help to alleviate
future misunderstandings and extensive revisions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary,
neither the staff’s conceptual plat review of the sketch plan submitted at a
pre-filing consultation nor staff’s comments to the petitioner relating thereto
shall be considered a denial, approval, or decision concerning the proposed
primary plat.
   (B)   Name of subdivision. The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate
or closely approximate the name of any other subdivision within the town or
other areas of the county. Care should be taken to keep the names short and, if
applicable, consistent with adjacent subdivisions which have been previously
approved and recorded.
   (C)   Minor subdivision; filing requirements for primary and secondary
approval. An application for a minor subdivision shall be submitted to the Area
Plan Commission in accordance with the filing schedule established by the Area
Plan Commission. The submission shall include the following:
      (1)   Drawing. An original drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen or
Mylar film, at a scale not less than 1 inch equals 100 feet or greater than 1
inch equals 50 feet. All printed numbers, letters, and typed information shall
be in capital letters and the size of an 11 point type font so that the drawing
is adaptable to photographic reduction and will maintain complete legibility.
The original drawing shall be accompanied by 6 prints and include the
following.
         (a)   Name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or closely
approximate the name of any other subdivision within the incorporated or
unincorporated areas of the county.
         (b)   Legal description of the subdivision which shall include
section, township, range, and governmental township.
         (c)   Boundary of subdivision, based on accurate traverse survey with
accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof, and bearings expressed in
degrees, minutes, and seconds. The traverse survey shall be closed to the
minimum requirements of the State Standards for the practice of land surveying
as required by 865 I.A.C. 1-12-7 et seq. A separate boundary closure sheet need
not be submitted.
         (d)   Name, address, seal, signature, and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing or certifying the subdivision, in a manner
prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
         (e)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (f)   Elevation and delineation of the 100-year regulatory flood and
certification of compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program, when
applicable.
         (g)   A note shall be placed on the plat, when applicable, to indicate
the presence of any condition on any lot which would not be conducive to the
development of basements (e.g., seasonal high water table, and the like).
         (h)   A blank area of 4 inches vertical by 9 inches horizontal within
which to affix the Area Plan Commission’s certificate of approval without
obscuring or obliterating any other items on the plat.
         (i)   The location of all public wells and the delineation of any
wellhead protection area, when applicable.
         (j)   Delineation of those soils that may not be suitable for a
conventional subsurface on-site sewage disposal system by a either a soil
investigator or as shown in the Soil Survey of St. Joseph County, and a note
concerning restrictions for on-site sewage disposal systems.
         (k)   Delineation of wetlands identified by the National Wetlands
Inventory, when applicable.
         (l)   A note shall be placed on the plat indicating that building
setbacks shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (m)   Owner’s certification, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (n)   All right-of-way lines and width of right-of-way, existing and
required for dedication.
         (o)   Statement that all easements that are indicated on documentation
provided by the property owner are shown on the drawing.
         (p)   Statement regarding how the subdivision will be served by water,
sewer, and electric, i.e., municipal water, sewer, and electric.
         (q)   Lot numbers.
         (r)   All lot lines and easements with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths thereof, and bearings expressed in degrees, minutes, and seconds.
All easements shall be identified as to their specific use.
         (s)   Deed of dedication, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (t)   Notarization and seal, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (u)   Certification of compliance with the National Flood Insurance
Program, when applicable.
         (v)   Statement concerning any encroachments upon existing building
setback lines and/or easements.
         (w)   Accurate location and type of all existing and required
monuments conforming to State Standards 865 I.A.C. 1-12-18 et seq.
         (x)   Township, range, and section lines accurately tied to the
subdivision by bearing and distances in feet and hundredths thereof.
         (y)   Coordinate data which ties the subdivision to the North American
Datum 1983 State Plane Coordinates System, to the standards adopted by the
County Surveyor, or provide a letter from the County Surveyor which indicates
that ties to such State Plane Coordinates System is not required.
         (z)   This drawing shall be accompanied by such other information as
the Area Plan Commission may require under the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Site Data Sheet (SDS). Six prints of a drawing on a sheet 24 inches
by 36 inches, at a scale not less than 1 inch equals 100 feet or greater than 1
inch equals 50 feet, including, but not limited to the following.
         (a)   Name of the subdivision.
         (b)   The adjacent county roads and the nearest major intersection,
with right-of-way widths labeled.
         (c)   Name and address of the registered land surveyor preparing the
subdivision.
         (d)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (e)   Known or suspected location of landfills, dumpsites, or sites
used for disposing of hazardous substances.
         (f)   Location of soil borings and test pits.
         (g)   Existing man-made structures and improvements within the
proposed subdivision, including driveways, culverts, fences, utility poles,
hydrants, and the like. Profiles of ditches at 25-foot intervals may be
required at the request of the Town Engineer.
         (h)   Natural features such as wooded areas, swamps, marshes, streams,
and drainage courses, and objects which may be located within the public
rights-of-way, including trees.
         (i)   Existing topographic contours at vertical intervals of 2 feet or
less. Vertical control data shall be based on National Geodetic Vertical Datum
or the St. Joseph County GIS. United States Geological Survey contours shall
not be acceptable.
         (j)   A graphic and/or textual summary of any known environmental site
studies which contains a recommendation or conclusion which impacts the site of
the proposed subdivision.
         (k)   The location of all public wells and the delineated wellhead
protection area, if any.
         (l)   Legal description and tract boundary drawing of the entire
property which is being subdivided.
         (m)   A vicinity key map at a noted scale of 1 inch equals 2,000 feet
or 1 inch equals 3,000 feet showing the location of the subdivision, major
streets, and physical features, such as rivers and creeks, within a distance of
2 miles.
         (n)   Name and address of the subdivider.
         (o)   The address and approximate distance of the nearest house to the
subdivision or within the subdivision.
         (p)   The existing Tax Key Number for the property to be subdivided.
         (q)   If the property within 300 feet of the subdivision has been
subdivided, the subdivision layout, name, section, and instrument number shall
be included.
      (3)   Engineering feasibility report. Three copies of a report including,
but not limited to the following.
         (a)   Sanitary sewage:
            1.   Type of public sanitary sewage disposal system to be used; and
            2.   Distance from the nearest public sewer.
         (b)   Water supply:
            1.   Type of public water supply to be used; and
            2.   Distance from the nearest public water main.
         (c)   If within 500 feet on an existing public sewer or water main,
provide a letter from the owner of the system indicating adequate capacity
exists and approval to connect, or an analysis of the feasibility of connecting
to the system. The analysis shall include the distance to the point of
connection, estimate of cost of extending the system through the subdivision,
and the capacity of the existing system to handle the additional load.
         (d)   Electrical supply:
            1.   Type of electrical supply to be used, i.e., underground or
overhead; and
            2.   Distance from nearest public electric distribution system.
      (4)   Drainage plan. A drainage plan, as required for major subdivisions
under §
151.058, may be required for a minor subdivision upon request by the Town
Engineer or County Surveyor.
      (5)   Traffic impact study. A traffic impact study may be required by the
Town Engineer when warranted in compliance with the INDOT Traffic Impact Study
Guidelines. The traffic impact study shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and shall evaluate the impact of present and future
traffic generated by the proposed development on the adjacent roadway network.
      (6)   Digital data submission. All minor plats submitted for secondary
review shall include a digital copy of the proposed subdivision prepared in
accordance with the requirements set forth in the “Digital Data Submission
Standards” as set forth by the Area Plan Commission.
      (7)   Ownership and subsequent divisions report. One copy of a report
including the following.
         (a)   Proof of ownership of the property to be subdivided as contained
within a parcel or tract of land in single or separate ownership as of December
4, 1979.
         (b)   A history of any divisions to that original parcel or tract of
land subsequent to December 4, 1979.
      (8)   Ownership. Proof of ownership of the subdivision.
      (9)   Other approval. The applicant shall provide a summary of any other
local, state, or federal governmental approvals required for the development of
the subdivision and a statement of the status of each such approval.
      (10)   Rule 5. Any subdivision subject to Rule 5 shall provide proof of
application for a notice of sufficiency.
      (11)   Fee. The submission of the subdivision shall be accompanied by
fees as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (12)   Application. A completed application shall be submitted upon forms
provided and in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
   (D)   Minor subdivision; review, appeal, and approval procedure. The review,
appeal, and approval procedure for minor subdivisions shall be as follows.
      (1)   Completeness.
         (a)   All of the required information shall be complete upon filing in
order for staff to begin its review. Applications with incomplete plans shall
not be docketed until complete plans have been filed with the Area Plan
Commission.
         (b)   The staff shall determine if all required elements of an
application for a minor subdivision have been provided. If staff determines
that an application is complete, staff shall begin the review process in
accordance with the filing schedule established by the Area Plan Commission.
         (c)   If, however, staff notes a deficiency in the application
materials, staff shall notify the applicant of that deficiency. Upon receipt of
the materials required to complete the application, staff shall begin the
review process for the next available meeting of the Plat Committee.
         (d)   The Executive Director, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the requirements listed above for a primary plat of a minor
subdivision, as circumstances dictate.
      (2)   Referral and review. The staff shall refer prints of the
subdivision to the appropriate agencies.
         (a)   1.   If the subdivision falls within a designated special flood
hazard area, the subdivision shall be reviewed by the Department of Natural
Resources.
            2.   If the proposed subdivision is to be located in a special
flood hazard area, the subdivider’s registered land surveyor or engineer shall
forward pertinent plans and materials to the Department of Natural Resources
for review and comment. Appropriate changes and modifications may be required
in order to assure that the development of the proposed subdivision is
consistent with the need to minimize flood damages, including but not limited
to the following: all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; adequate drainage shall be provided so as to reduce
exposure to flood hazards; and on-site waste disposal systems, if provided,
shall be so located as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them
during the occurrence of the regulatory flood.
            3.   All subdivisions to be located in a special flood hazard area
shall have the elevation of the 100-year flood noted on the secondary plat and
a delineation of the special flood hazard area thereon.
         (b)   The staff may also refer the subdivision to any federal, state,
or county agency, board, or department which has regulations or rules which
affect the use or design of the subdivision, or the location or height of
structures to be placed within the subdivision.
         (c)   The agencies shall review the subdivision and submit a report to
the staff. The staff shall review the subdivision for technical conformity with
the standards fixed in this chapter and the requirements, recommendations, and
comments of the reviewing agencies, and prepare a report with a recommendation
for the Plat Committee’s consideration.
      (3)   Submission to Plat Committee. Within the time frame as established
by resolution of the Area Plan Commission, the staff shall announce the date,
time, and place of the meeting at which the Plat Committee shall consider the
subdivision, and give due notice in writing to all interested parties at least
10 days before the date set for the meeting.
      (4)   Plat Committee consideration. After receiving the staff report and
recommendation, the Plat Committee shall consider the subdivision for primary
approval without public notice and hearing.
      (5)   Plat Committee action.
         (a)   If, after consideration, the Plat Committee finds that the
subdivision complies with all standards regarding primary approval of minor
subdivisions, the Plat Committee shall give primary approval to the
subdivision, with or without modifications and conditions imposed, and make
written findings of fact and a decision which shall include any modifications
or conditions imposed. The Chairperson and Secretary of the Plat Committee
shall seal and certify 2 copies of the subdivision, provide the subdivider’s
registered land surveyor with 1 copy and retain the second copy in the Area
Plan Commission’s files.
         (b)   If, after consideration, the Plat Committee finds that the
subdivision does not comply with all standards regarding primary approval of
subdivisions, the Plat Committee shall deny primary approval to the subdivision
and make written findings of fact and a decision which sets forth its reasons
for disapproval.
      (6)   Notice of Plat Committee’s action. Within 5 days after the Plat
Committee’s action on the subdivision, the Secretary of the Plat Committee
shall provide all interested parties with a copy of the findings of fact and
decision, and notify them in writing of their right to appeal the Plat
Committee’s decision to the Area Plan Commission. Appeals shall be in writing,
shall indicate the desire to have the minor subdivision reviewed by the Area
Plan Commission, shall state the reason for the appeal and shall be filed
within 5 days of the date of the notice by the Secretary.
      (7)   If no appeal has been filed.
         (a)   If the minor subdivision, for which primary and secondary
approval has been requested, received primary approval by the Plat Committee,
and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the date of the notice of Plat
Committee’s action, and all modifications or conditions placed upon the
subdivision by the Plat Committee, if any, have been complied with or
corrected, the staff shall grant secondary approval to the subdivision and the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Plat Committee shall seal and certify the
original drawing. The staff shall record the subdivision as required below.
         (b)   If the minor subdivision, for which primary and secondary
approval has been requested, received primary approval by the Plat Committee,
and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the date of the notice of Plat
Committee’s action, and all modifications or conditions placed upon the
subdivision by the Plat Committee, if any, have not been complied with or
corrected within 2 years, the staff shall deny secondary approval to the
subdivision. The Secretary of the Plat Committee shall provide written notice
to the subdivider which sets forth its reasons for denying secondary approval,
and release the original drawing of the subdivision to the registered land
surveyor who prepared it.
         (c)   If the minor subdivision was denied primary approval by the Plat
Committee and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the notice of Plat
Committee’s action, the staff shall release the original drawing of the
subdivision to the registered land surveyor who prepared it.
      (8)   If an appeal has been filed. If an appeal has been filed within 5
days of the date of the notice of Plat Committee’s action, the staff shall
announce the date, time, and place of the meeting at which the Area Plan
Commission shall consider the subdivision, and shall give due notice in writing
to all interested parties at least 10 days before the date set for the meeting
of the Area Plan Commission at which the plat shall be considered. The staff
shall prepare a report with a recommendation for Area Plan Commission
consideration.
      (9)   Area Plan Commission consideration after appeal. After receiving
the staff report and recommendation, the Area Plan Commission shall consider
the subdivision without public notice and hearing. The Area Plan Commission
shall consider the subdivision as though the Plat Committee had not acted upon
it. The subdivision shall be considered in its entirety, as if it were a new
submission, with all items considered, not just the items appealed.
      (10)   Area Plan Commission action.
         (a)   If, after consideration, the Area Plan Commission finds that the
subdivision complies with all standards regarding primary approval of minor
subdivisions, the Area Plan Commission shall give primary approval to the
subdivision, with or without modifications and conditions imposed, and make
written findings of fact and a decision, which shall include any modifications
or conditions imposed. The Secretary of the Area Plan Commission shall then
provide the subdivider with a copy of the findings of fact and decision. The
President and Secretary of the Area Plan Commission shall seal and certify 2
copies of the subdivision and provide the subdivided registered land surveyor
with 1 copy along with a copy of the findings of fact and decision, signed by
the Secretary of the Area Plan Commission. The second copy of the sealed and
certified subdivision shall be retained in the records of the Area Plan
Commission. When all modifications or conditions placed upon the subdivision by
the Area Plan Commission, if any, have been complied with or corrected, the
staff shall give secondary approval to the subdivision. The President and
Secretary of the Area Plan Commission shall seal and certify the original
drawing. The staff shall record the subdivision as required below.
         (b)   If the subdivision, for which secondary approval has been
requested, received primary approval by the Area Plan Commission and all
modifications or conditions placed upon the subdivision by the Area Plan
Commission have not been complied with or corrected within 2 years, the staff
shall deny secondary approval to the subdivision. The Secretary of the Area
Plan Commission shall provide written notice to the subdivider which sets forth
its reasons for denying secondary approval, and release the original drawing of
the subdivision to the registered land surveyor who prepared it.
         (c)   If, after consideration, the Area Plan Commission finds that the
subdivision does not comply with all standards regarding primary approval of
minor subdivisions, the Area Plan Commission shall deny the subdivision primary
approval and make written findings of fact and a decision which sets forth its
reasons for disapproval. The Secretary of the Area Plan Commission shall
provide the subdivider with a copy of the findings of fact and decision, and
release the original drawing to the subdivided registered land surveyor.
      (11)   Recording. Within 7 days of secondary approval, the staff shall
record the subdivision in the Recorder’s office and so notify the subdivider.
The staff shall have the original drawing of the subdivision duplicated at a
reduced scale and release the original drawing to the registered land surveyor
who prepared it. The staff shall distribute reduced copies of the subdivision
as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1223, § 2.3, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 151.058 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The major subdivision process is intended to provide for the platting of
larger residential, commercial, industrial, and other nonresidential
redevelopments.
   (A)   Consultation required.  
      (1)   Prior to the submission of a major subdivision, the subdivider
shall consult informally with the staff, the County Surveyor, the Town
Engineer, and other agencies deemed appropriate by the staff. This will create
an understanding between the staff and the subdivider which may help to
alleviate future misunderstandings and extensive revisions.
      (2)   The level of information received by the developer at a
consultation is dependent upon the quality and quantity of information provided
by the developer for review and comment. It is strongly recommended that a
consultation take place a minimum of 2 weeks prior to an application deadline
to allow time to prepare the required plans; however, a consultation may take
place at any time prior to filing.
      (3)   Staff shall review the sketch plan and shall notify the subdivider
of any comments related to the design or contents of the sketch plan within 10
business days of the submittal for conceptual plat review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
      (4)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary,
neither the staff’s conceptual plat review of the sketch plan submitted at a
pre-filing conference nor staff’s comments to the petitioner relating thereto
shall be considered a denial, approval, or decision concerning the proposed
primary plat.
      (5)   Petitioner may modify the sketch plan and file a petition for
primary plat approval after the expiration of the 10-business day period
referred to above.
   (B)   Name of subdivision. The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate
or closely approximate the name of any other subdivision within the town or
other areas of the county. Care should be taken to keep names short and, if
applicable, consistent with adjacent subdivisions which have been previously
approved and recorded.
   (C)   Major subdivision application; primary approval. An application for
primary approval of a major subdivision shall be submitted in accordance with
the filing schedule established by the Area Plan Commission. The submission
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Drawing. An original drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen or
Mylar film, at a scale of 1 inch equals 200 feet or less. All printed numbers,
letters, and typed information shall be in capital letters and the size of an
11 point type font so that the drawing is adaptable to photographic reduction
and will maintain complete legibility. The original drawing shall be
accompanied by 6 prints and include the following.
         (a)   Name of the subdivision.
         (b)   Location of the subdivision by section, township, range, and
governmental township.
         (c)   Boundary of the proposed subdivision based on accurate traverse
survey with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof, and bearings
expressed in degrees, minutes and seconds. The traverse survey shall be closed
to the minimum requirements of the State Standards for the practice of land
surveying as required by 865 I.A.C. 1-12-7 et seq. A separate boundary closure
sheet need not be submitted.
         (c)   Name, address, seal, signature, and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing or certifying the subdivision, in a manner
prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
         (e)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (f)   Elevation and delineation of the 100-year regulatory flood, when
applicable.
         (g)   A note shall be placed on the plat, when applicable, to indicate
the presence of any condition on any lot which would not be conducive to the
development of basements (e.g., seasonal high water table, and the like).
         (h)   A blank area 4 inches vertical by 9 inches horizontal, within
which the Area Plan Commission may affix its certificate of approval without
obscuring or obliterating any other items on the plat.
         (i)   The location of all public wells and the delineation of any
wellhead protection area, when applicable.
         (j)   Delineation of wetlands identified by the National Wetlands
Inventory, when applicable.
         (k)   A note shall be placed on the plat indicating that building
setbacks shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (l)   Name and address of subdivider.
         (m)   Layout of proposed streets, which shall include: the
classification of each street; the names and widths; walkways; easements; and
location of any accel/decel lane or passing blister.
         (n)   Statement that all easements that are indicated on documentation
provided by the property owner are shown on the drawing.
         (o)   Statement regarding how the subdivision will be served by water,
sewer, and electric i.e., municipal water, sewer, and electric.
         (p)   Layout and approximate dimensions of lots.
         (q)   Lot numbers.
         (r)   All existing easements in exact dimensions of feet and
hundredths thereof, and bearings expressed in degrees, minutes, and seconds.
         (s)   Coordinate data which ties the subdivision to the North American
Datum 1983 State Plane Coordinates System to the standards adopted by the
County Surveyor, or provide a letter from the County Surveyor which indicates
that ties to such State Plane Coordinates System is not required.
         (t)   Any areas other than public rights-of-way to be dedicated or
reserved for public or semi-public use, or areas to be reserved for the use of
all property owners, shall be shown on the drawing and labeled as to their use
and shall have a separate legal description on the drawing with accurate
dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof and bearings expressed in degrees,
minutes, and seconds.
         (u)   Show in dotted or dashed line, the location, width, and names of
previously subdivided and recorded streets and lots in the proposed subdivision
and within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision.
         (v)   The frontage streets and the nearest major intersections, with
existing and proposed rights-of-way labeled.
         (w)   A vicinity key map at a noted scale of 1 inch equals 2,000 or 1
inch equals 3,000 feet showing the location of the subdivision, major streets,
and physical features, such as rivers and creeks, within a distance of 2 miles.
         (x)   Location of any public on-site water and/or wastewater treatment
plants.
         (y)   The drawing shall be accompanied by such other information as
the Area Plan Commission may require under the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Watershed map. Six prints (if placed on a sheet other than the site
analysis), on 24-inch by 36-inch sheets, of the Area Plan Commission’s
watershed map or similar map showing:
         (a)   Location of the subdivision within the watershed;
         (b)   Intermediate streams, drainage courses, and reaches within the
total watershed;
         (c)   Delineation of the watershed flowing into the proposed
subdivision and the number of acres within that part of the watershed; and
         (d)   Delineation of the watershed flowing out of the proposed
subdivision and the number of acres within that part of the watershed.
      (3)   Site Data Sheet (SDS). Six prints of a map or a series of maps, on
24-inch by 36-inch sheets, at a scale of 1 inch equals 200 feet or less (the
Area Plan Commission’s section maps may be used as base maps) showing the
following information for the proposed subdivision and the adjacent area within
300 feet, including, but not limited to the following.
         (a)   Name of the subdivision.
         (b)   Show in dotted or dashed line, the location, width, and names of
previously subdivided and recorded streets and lots in the proposed subdivision
and within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision.
         (c)   Name and address of the registered land surveyor preparing the
subdivision.
         (d)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (e)   Known or suspected location of landfills, dumpsites, or sites
used for disposing of hazardous substances.
         (f)   Soil information, as determined by a soil investigator or the
Soil Survey of St. Joseph County, with soil boundaries, identification codes,
names, slope, and erosion factors. Location of soil borings and test pits.
         (g)   Existing man-made structures and improvements within the
proposed subdivision, including driveways, culverts, fences, utility poles,
hydrants, and the like. Profiles of ditches at 25-foot intervals may be
required at the request of the Town Engineer.
         (h)   Natural features such as wooded areas, swamps, marshes, streams,
drainage courses, and objects which may be located in the public right-of-way,
including trees.
         (i)   Existing topographic contours at vertical intervals of 2 feet or
less. Vertical control data shall be based on National Geodetic Vertical Datum
or the St. Joseph County GIS. United States Geological Survey contours shall
not be acceptable.
         (j)   A graphic and/or textual summary of any known environmental site
studies which contains a recommendation or conclusion which impacts the site of
the proposed subdivision.
         (k)   The location of all public wells and the delineated wellhead
protection area, if any.
         (l)   Location of the subdivision by section, township, range, and
governmental township.
         (m)   Boundary of subdivision, with approximate dimensions in feet.
         (n)   Floodplains and floodways as shown on maps published by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (o)   Delineation and location of all watersheds, streams, drainage
courses, reaches, and swales which flow into and/or through the proposed
subdivision, if not shown on a separate watershed map.
         (p)   At the boundary of the proposed subdivision, the acreage of all
watersheds which flow into and out of the subdivision, if not shown on a
separate watershed map.
         (q)   Acres of watersheds at the confluence of streams, drainage
courses, reaches, and swales within the proposed subdivision, if not shown on a
separate watershed map.
         (r)   If adjoining property within 300 feet of the subdivision has not
been subdivided, the names of property owners, as shown in the Assessor’s
office, Auditor’s office, or Recorder’s office shall be included. If the
property within 300 feet of the subdivision has been subdivided, the
subdivision layout, name, section, and instrument number shall be included.
      (4)   Engineering feasibility report. Three copies of a typed feasibility
report covering sewage, water, and drainage facilities and streets to serve the
subdivision, including but not limited to the following.
         (a)   Existing system. The applicant shall connect to an existing
public sewer, water, and electric supply system, a letter from the utility
indicating the ability of the utility to service the subdivision, and approval
for that subdivision to connect to the utility. The report shall include the
distance from the nearest public electric supply, and sewer and water mains,
the capacity of the existing systems intended to handle the additional load and
the estimated cost.
         (b)   Drainage system. If the connection to an existing storm drain
system is not feasible, the type of drainage system to be utilized shall be
stated.
         (c)   Street construction. A preliminary report on type of street
construction to be used based on the latest standards adopted by the town.
      (5)   Drainage plan. The drainage plan shall be prepared and certified by
a registered engineer or registered land surveyor in accordance with standards
adopted by the Board, and submitted to the Town Engineer. Prior to the
preparation of a drainage plan, the registered engineer or registered land
surveyor shall confirm the watershed area with the County Surveyor and shall
submit such watershed confirmation to the Town Engineer along with the proposed
drainage plan. The submittal of the subdivision to the Area Plan Commission
shall not be accepted unless 1 copy of the approved drainage plan or, when
appropriate, a letter of no objection to submittal from the Town Engineer
accompanies the submittal and a report from the County Surveyor which indicates
that the County Drainage Board has received an application for approval of the
subdivision’s drainage system as an “Urban Drain” as specified in the 1965
Indiana Drainage Code, Chapter 305, Acts of 1965, as amended.
      (6)   Traffic impact study. A traffic impact study may be required by the
Town Engineer when warranted in compliance with the INDOT Traffic Impact Study
Guidelines. Such traffic impact study shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and shall evaluate the impact of present and future
traffic generated by the proposed development on the adjacent roadway network.
      (7)   Digital data submission. All major plats submitted for primary
review shall include a digital copy of the proposed subdivision prepared in
accordance with the requirements set forth in the “Digital Data Submission
Standards” as set forth by the Area Plan Commission.
      (8)   Ownership. A letter from the subdivider showing his or her interest
in the property to be subdivided, or that he or she is the agent for the owner
of the land, or proof of ownership, or a copy of a purchase agreement.
      (9)   Property list. A list showing names and addresses of property
owners within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision and 2 sets of stamped,
addressed envelopes for property owners within 300 feet of the proposed
subdivision. Names and addresses may be obtained from the Assessor’s office or
the Auditor’s office.
      (10)   Other approval. The applicant shall provide a summary of any other
local, state, or federal governmental approvals required for the development of
the subdivision and a statement of the status of each such approval.
      (11)   Fee. The submission of the subdivision shall be accompanied by
fees as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (12)   Application. A completed application upon forms provided and in a
manner prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
   (D)   Major subdivision; primary review, appeal, and approval procedure. The
primary review, appeal, and approval procedure for major subdivisions shall be
as follows.
      (1)   Completeness.
         (a)   All of the required information shall be complete upon filing in
order for staff to begin its review. Applications with incomplete plans shall
not be docketed until complete plans have been filed with the Area Plan
Commission.
         (b)   The staff shall determine if all required elements of an
application for a major subdivision have been provided. If staff determines
that an application is complete, staff shall begin the review process in
accordance with the filing schedule established by the Area Plan Commission.
         (c)   If, however, staff notes a deficiency in the application
materials, staff shall notify the applicant of the deficiency. Upon receipt of
the materials required to complete the application, staff shall begin the
review process for the next available meeting of the Plat Committee.
         (d)   The Executive Director, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the requirements listed above for a primary plat of a major
subdivision, as circumstances dictate.
      (2)   Referral and review. The staff shall refer prints of the
subdivision to the appropriate agencies.
         (a)   1.   If the subdivision falls within a designated special flood
hazard area, the subdivision shall be reviewed by the Department of Natural
Resources.
            2.   If the proposed subdivision is to be located in a special
flood hazard area, the subdivider’s registered land surveyor or engineer shall
forward pertinent plans and materials to the Department of Natural Resources
for review and comment. Appropriate changes and modifications may be required
in order to assure that the development of the proposed subdivision is
consistent with the need to minimize flood damages, including but not limited
to the following: all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; adequate drainage shall be provided so as to reduce
exposure to flood hazards; and on-site waste disposal systems, if provided,
shall be so located as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them
during the occurrence of the regulatory flood.
            3.   All subdivisions to be located in a special flood hazard area
shall have the elevation of the 100-year flood noted on the secondary plat and
a delineation of the special flood hazard area thereon.
         (b)   The staff may also refer the subdivision to any federal, state,
or county agency, board, or department which has regulations or rules which
affect the use or design of the subdivision, or the location or height of
structures to be placed within the subdivision.
         (c)   The agencies shall review the subdivision and submit a report to
the staff. The staff shall review the subdivision for technical conformity with
the standards fixed in the Subdivision Ordinance and the requirements,
recommendations, and comments of the reviewing agencies, and prepare a report
with a recommendation for the Plat Committee’s consideration.
      (3)   Submission to Plat Committee. Within the time frame as established
by resolution of the Area Plan Commission, the staff shall announce the date,
time, and place of the meeting at which the Plat Committee shall consider the
subdivision; mail due notice to all interested parties at least 10 days before
the date set for hearing, and give notice of the hearing by publication in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 et seq.
      (4)   Plat Committee consideration. After receiving the staff report and
recommendation, the Plat Committee shall consider the subdivision at a public
hearing.
      (5)   Plat Committee action.
         (a)   If, after consideration, the Plat Committee finds that the
subdivision complies with all standards regarding primary approval of major
subdivisions, the Plat Committee shall give primary approval to the
subdivision, with or without modifications or conditions imposed, and make
written findings of fact and a decision which shall include any modifications
or conditions imposed.
         (b)   If, after consideration, the Plat Committee finds that the
subdivision does not comply with all standards regarding primary approval of
major subdivisions, the Plat Committee shall deny primary approval to the
subdivision, make written findings of fact and a decision which sets forth its
reasons for disapproval.
      (6)   Notice of Plat Committee’s action. Within 5 days after the Plat
Committee’s action on the subdivision, the Secretary of the Plat Committee
shall provide the subdivider with a copy of the findings of fact and decision,
and notify all interested parties of the Plat Committee’s decision and their
right to appeal the Plat Committee’s decision to the Area Plan Commission.
Appeals shall be in writing, shall indicate the desire to have the major
subdivision reviewed by the Area Plan Commission, shall state the reason for
the appeal, and shall be filed within 5 days of the date of the notice by the
Secretary.
      (7)   If no appeal has been filed.
         (a)   If the subdivision received primary approval by the Plat
Committee, and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the date of the notice
of Plat Committee’s action, the Chairperson and Secretary of the Plat Committee
shall seal and certify the original drawing and 1 copy of the original drawing.
The original drawing shall then be released to the subdivider’s registered land
surveyor and the copy of the original drawing shall be retained in the files of
the Area Plan Commission.
         (b)   If the subdivision was denied primary approval by the Plat
Committee and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the notice of Plat
Committee’s action, the staff shall release the original drawing of the
subdivision to the registered land surveyor who prepared it.
      (8)   If an appeal has been filed. If an appeal has been filed within 5
days of the date of the notice of Plat Committee’s action, the staff shall
place the subdivision on the agenda of the Area Plan Commission’s first
available meeting, mail due notice in writing to all interested parties at
least 10 days before the date set for hearing, and give notice of the hearing
by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 et seq. The staff shall prepare a
report with a recommendation for Area Plan Commission consideration.
      (9)   Area Plan Commission consideration. After receiving the staff
report and recommendation, the Area Plan Commission shall consider the
subdivision at a public hearing. The Area Plan Commission shall consider the
subdivision as though the Plat Committee had not acted upon it. The subdivision
shall be considered in its entirety, as if it were a new submission, with all
items considered, not just the items appealed.
      (10)   Area Plan Commission action.
         (a)   If, after consideration, the Area Plan Commission finds that the
subdivision complies with all standards regarding primary approval of major
subdivisions, the Area Plan Commission shall give primary approval to the
subdivision, with or without modifications and conditions imposed and make
written findings of fact and a decision which shall include any modifications
and conditions imposed. The Secretary of the Area Plan Commission shall then
provide the subdivider with a copy of the findings of fact and decision. The
President and Secretary of the Area Plan Commission shall seal and certify the
original drawing and 1 copy of the original drawing, and release the original
drawing to the subdivider’s registered land surveyor. The copy of the original
drawing shall be retained in the records of the Area Plan Commission.
         (b)   If, after consideration, the Area Plan Commission finds that the
major subdivision does not comply with all standards regarding primary approval
of major subdivisions, the Area Plan Commission shall deny primary approval to
the subdivision and make written findings of fact and a decision which sets
forth its reasons for disapproval. The Secretary of the Area Plan Commission
shall then provide the subdivider with a copy of the findings of fact and
decision, and release the original drawing to the subdivided registered land
surveyor.
      (11)   Effective approval. Primary approval of the subdivision shall be
effective indefinitely; however, all subdivisions receiving secondary approval
shall be developed to the latest standards adopted by the Board, and applicable
codes and ordinances at the time of secondary approval.
   (E)   Major subdivision; secondary review and approval procedure. The
secondary review and approval procedure for a major subdivision shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Referral and review. The staff shall refer prints of the
subdivision to the appropriate agencies. The appropriate agencies shall review
the subdivision and submit a report to the staff. The staff shall review the
subdivision for technical conformity with the standards fixed in the
Subdivision Ordinance and the requirements, recommendations, and comments of
the appropriate agencies.
      (2)   Request for hearing by Plat Committee. Upon review of prints for a
subdivision, the County Surveyor, the Town Engineer, the County Health Officer,
or the developer may request that the secondary review of the plat be referred
to the Plat Committee for review and determination and the subdivision shall be
placed on the agenda of the first available meeting of the Plat Committee.
      (3)   Approval. Within the time frame as established by resolution of the
Area Plan Commission and upon receipt of the reports from the appropriate
agencies, and after the 10-day appeal period for primary approval of the
subdivision has expired and an appeal, if any, has been acted upon by the Area
Plan Commission, the staff shall grant secondary approval to the subdivision
and the Chairperson and the Secretary of the Plat Committee shall seal and
certify the original drawing.
      (4)   Determination of major change. A subdivision being considered for
secondary approval shall be considered to be a major change from the
subdivision having received primary approval if:
         (a)   Any interior minor collector street or local street has been
relocated in such a way as to adversely impact abutting property owners;
         (b)   Any entrance streets have been relocated in such a way as to
adversely impact abutting property owners;
         (c)   Any stub streets have been relocated in such a way as to
adversely impact abutting property owners;
         (d)   The drainage plan has been altered in such a way as to adversely
impact abutting property owners;
         (e)   An increase in the number of lots shown on the approved primary
plat; or
         (f)   The Executive Director in its sole discretion believes it
advisable, because of the collective effect of numerous small changes.
      (5)   Committee/staff action.
         (a)   If, after consideration the Plat Committee/staff finds: that the
major subdivision complies with all standards regarding secondary approval of
major subdivisions; all required improvements meet the applicable requirements
of the town or that surety has been posted; that it does not constitute a major
change from the subdivision which received primary approval; and that it
complies with all the conditions and modifications imposed upon the subdivision
by either the Plat Committee or the Area Plan Commission as a condition of
primary approval, the Plat Committee/staff shall give secondary approval to the
subdivision, and staff shall record the subdivision. The Chairperson and
Secretary of the Plat Committee shall certify and seal the original drawing.
The Secretary of the Plat Committee shall provide written notification to the
subdivider that the subdivision was approved by the Plat Committee/staff and
that the subdivision will be recorded within 7 days of secondary approval as
required below.
         (b)   If the Plat Committee/staff finds: that the major subdivision
does not comply with all standards regarding secondary approval of major
subdivisions; or that any required improvement does not meet the applicable
requirements of the town, or that surety has not been posted; or that the
subdivision constitutes a major change from the subdivision which received
primary approval, or that it does not comply with all the conditions and
modifications imposed upon the subdivision by the Area Plan Commission or Plat
Committee as a condition of primary approval, the Plat Committee/staff shall
deny the subdivision secondary approval. The Secretary of the Plat Committee
shall then provide written notice to the subdivider, which sets forth the Plat
Committee’s/staff’s reasons for disapproval, and release the original drawing
to the subdivider’s registered land surveyor.
      (6)   Recording. Within 7 days of the secondary approval, the staff shall
record the subdivision in the Recorder’s office and so notify the subdivider.
The staff shall have the original drawing of the subdivision duplicated at a
reduced scale and release the original drawing to the registered land surveyor
who prepared it. The staff shall distribute reduced copies of the subdivision
as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
   (F)   Major subdivision application; secondary approval. An application for
secondary approval of a major subdivision may be submitted at the convenience
of the subdivider. The submission shall contain the following.
      (1)   Drawing. An original drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen,
or Mylar film, at a scale of not less than 1 inch equals 100 feet or greater
than 1 inch equals 50 feet. All printed numbers, letters and typed information
shall be in capital letters and the size of an 11 point type font so that the
drawing is adaptable to photographic reduction and will maintain complete
legibility. The subdivision may include all or part of the subdivision which
received primary approval, and shall retain the lot numbers and overall
characteristics of the subdivision which received primary approval. The
original drawing shall be accompanied by 6 prints and include the following.
         (a)   Name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or closely
approximate the name of any other subdivision within the incorporated or
unincorporated areas of the county. If the subdivision is only a portion of the
subdivision which received primary approval, each section or addition shall be
separately and sequentially designated.
         (b)   Legal description of the subdivision which shall include
section, township, range, and governmental township.
         (c)   Boundary of subdivision, based on accurate traverse survey with
accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof, and bearings expressed in
degrees, minutes, and seconds. The traverse survey shall be closed to the
minimum requirements of the State Standards for the practice of land surveying
as required by 865 I.A.C. 1-12-7 et seq. A separate boundary closure sheet need
not be submitted.
         (d)   Name, address, seal, signature, and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing or certifying the subdivision as prescribed
by the Area Plan Commission.
         (e)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (f)   Elevation and delineation of the 100-year regulatory flood and
certification of compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program, when
applicable.
         (g)   A note shall be placed on the plat, when applicable, to indicate
the presence of any condition on any lot which would not be conducive to the
development of basements (e.g., seasonal high water table, and the like).
         (h)   A blank area 4 inches vertical by 9 inches horizontal, within
which the Area Plan Commission may affix its certificate of approval without
obscuring or obliterating any other items on the plat.
         (i)   The location of all public wells and the delineation of any
wellhead protection area, when applicable.
         (j)   Delineation of those soils that may not be suitable for the
development of basements.
         (k)   Delineation of wetlands identified by the National Wetlands
Inventory, when applicable.
         (l)   A note shall be placed on the plat indicating that building
setbacks shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (m)   Owner’s certification, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (n)   Exact location, width and name of all streets, alleys and
walkways within the subdivision.
         (o)   Statement that all easements that are indicated on documentation
provided by the property owner are shown on the drawing.
         (p)   Statement regarding how the subdivision will be served by water
and sewer, and electric.
         (q)   Lot numbers - lots in sections or additions to a subdivision
with the same name shall be numbered consecutively throughout the several
sections or additions.
         (r)   All lot lines and easements with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths thereof and bearings expressed in degrees, minutes, and seconds. All
easements shall be identified as to their specific use.
         (s)   Any areas other than public rights-of-way to be dedicated or
reserved for public or semi-public use, or areas to be reserved for the use of
all property owners, shall be shown on the drawing and labeled as to their use
and shall have a separate legal description on the drawing with accurate
dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof and bearings expressed in degrees,
minutes, and seconds.
         (t)   Deed of dedication, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (u)   Notarization and seal, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (v)   Statement concerning any encroachments upon building setback
lines and/or easements.
         (w)   Accurate location and type of all existing and required
monuments conforming to the State Standards 865 I.A.C. 1-12-18 et seq.
         (x)   All recorded subdivisions bounding the subdivision shall be
shown in dotted lines with name, section, or addition and Recorder’s instrument
number.
         (y)   Urban drain certificate, as prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission, when applicable.
         (z)   Township, range, or section line accurately tied to the
subdivision or a corner of a recorded subdivision by bearing and distances in
feet and hundredths thereof.
         (aa)   Coordinate data which ties the subdivision to the North
American Datum 1983 State Plane Coordinates System, to the standards adopted by
the County Surveyor, or provide a letter from the County Surveyor which
indicates that ties to the State Plane Coordinates System is not required.
         (bb)   All radii, central angles, points of curvature and tangency,
length of tangents, lengths of arcs, widths of rights-of-way, and similar data
shall be shown for all streets. All street lines shall be tied to other streets
and alleys with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof and angles
or bearings.
         (cc)   The drawing shall be accompanied by such other information as
the Area Plan Commission may require under the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Town Engineer’s report. A report from the Town Engineer shall be
submitted to the staff prior to secondary approval of the subdivision. The
report shall indicate whether the applicable requirements of the town have been
satisfactorily completed or whether plans and specifications for improvements
have been approved and performance guarantees for the required improvements
have been filed and approved. These guarantees shall:
         (a)   Run to the town; and
         (b)   Provide satisfactory surety as required by the latest standards
adopted by the town.
      (3)   County Surveyor’s report. A report from the County Surveyor shall
be submitted to the staff prior to secondary approval of the subdivision. The
report shall indicate, whether an “urban drain” was initially required, that
the County Drainage Board has classified the subdivision’s drainage system as
an “urban drain” as specified in I.C. 36-9-67 through 36-9-27-69, as amended.
      (4)   Digital data submission. All major plats submitted for secondary
review shall include a digital copy of the proposed subdivision prepared in
accordance with the requirements set forth in the “Digital Data Submission
Standards” as set forth by the Area Plan Commission.
      (5)   Ownership. Proof of ownership of the subdivision.
      (6)   Fee. The submission of the subdivision shall be accompanied by fees
as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (7)   Application. A completed application upon forms provided and in a
manner prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (8)   Rule 5. Any subdivision subject to Rule 5 shall provide proof of
application for a notice of sufficiency.
      (9)   Construction plans. Construction plans for all improvements,
installations, and lot improvements required by this chapter, the Area Plan
Commission, or other applicable ordinances of the town, including, but not
limited to street base, street binder, curbs, municipal water, municipal
electric, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, street topcoat, street signs,
sidewalks, monumentation, lot drainage, soil preservation, erosion control,
fencing, debris, and waste removal, and final grading and lawn preparation
shall contain the details required for review of such improvements,
installations, and lot improvements as specified by the town.
      (10)   Other approval. The applicant shall provide a summary of any other
local, state, or federal governmental approvals required for the development of
the subdivision and a statement of the status of each such approval.
(Ord. 1223, § 2.4, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 151.059 SUBDIVISION REPLATS.
   The subdivision replat process is intended to provide a streamlined process
for the replatting of a recorded subdivision to accommodate minor revisions to
a plat which does not affect number of lots.
   (A)   Consultation encouraged.
      (1)   Prior to the submission of a subdivision replat, the subdivider is
encouraged to consult informally with the staff. This will create an
understanding between the staff and the subdivider which may help to alleviate
future misunderstandings and extensive revisions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary,
neither the staff’s conceptual plat review of the sketch plan submitted at a
pre-filing consultation nor staff’s comments to the petitioner relating thereto
shall be considered a denial, approval, or decision concerning the proposed
primary plat.
   (B)   Name of subdivision replat. The name of the subdivision replat shall
not be identical to that of the original subdivision, but the name of the
original subdivision shall be contained within that of the subdivision replat.
   (C)   Subdivision replats; application. An application for primary or
secondary approval of a subdivision replat shall be submitted to the Area Plan
Commission in accordance with the filing schedule established by the Area Plan
Commission. The submission shall include the following.
      (1)   Drawing. An original drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen or
Mylar film, at a scale of not less than 1 inch equals 100 feet or greater than
1 inch equals 50 feet. All printed numbers, letters, and typed information
shall be in capital letters and the size of an 11 point type font so that the
drawing is adaptable to photographic reduction and will maintain complete
legibility. The original drawing shall be accompanied by 6 prints and include
the following.
         (a)   Name of the subdivision.
         (b)   Legal description of the subdivision which shall include
section, township, range, and governmental township.
         (c)   Boundary of subdivision, based on accurate traverse survey with
accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof, and bearings expressed in
degrees, minutes, and seconds. The traverse survey shall be closed to the
minimum requirements of the state standards for the practice of land surveying
as required by 865 I.A.C. 1-12-7 et seq. A separate boundary closure sheet need
not be submitted.
         (d)   Name, address, seal, signature, and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing or certifying the subdivision, in a manner
prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
         (e)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (f)   Elevation and delineation of the 100-year regulatory flood and
certification of compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program, when
applicable.
         (g)   A blank area 4 inches vertical by 9 inches horizontal, within
which the Area Plan Commission may affix its certificate of approval without
obscuring or obliterating any other items on the plat.
         (h)   The location of all public wells and the delineation of any
wellhead protection area, when applicable.
         (i)   A note shall be placed on the plat, when applicable, to indicate
the presence of any condition on any lot which would not be conducive to the
development of basements (e.g., seasonal high water table, and the like).
         (j)   Delineation of wetlands identified by the National Wetlands
Inventory, when applicable.
         (k)   A note shall be placed on the plat indicating that building
setbacks shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (l)   Owner’s certification, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (m)   Exact location, width, and name of all streets, alleys, and
walkways within the subdivision.
         (n)   Statement that all easements that are indicated on documentation
provided by the property owner are shown on the drawing.
         (o)   Original lot lines and lot numbers in dotted lines.
         (p)   New lots shall be designated by letters.
         (q)   All lot lines and easements with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths thereof and bearings expressed in degrees, minutes, and seconds. All
easements shall be identified as to their specific use.
         (r)   Any areas other than public right-of-way to be dedicated or
reserved for public use or semi-public use, or areas to be reserved for the use
of all property owners, shall be shown on the drawing and labeled as to their
use and shall have a separate legal description on the drawing with accurate
dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof and bearings expressed in degrees,
minutes, and seconds.
         (s)   Deed of dedication in a manner, prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (t)   Notarization and seal, in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (u)   Statement concerning any encroachments upon existing building
setback lines and/or easements.
         (v)   Accurate location and type of all existing and required
monuments conforming to State Standards 865 I.A.C. 1-12-18 et seq.
         (w)   All recorded subdivisions bounding the subdivision shall be
shown in dotted lines with name, section, or addition and Recorder’s instrument
number.
         (x)   Urban drain certificate, as prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission, when applicable.
         (y)   The drawing shall be accompanied by such other information as
the Area Plan Commission may require under the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Application. A completed application shall be submitted upon forms
provided and in a manner prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (3)   Digital data submission. All subdivision replats submitted for
secondary review shall include a digital copy of the proposed subdivision
prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in the “Digital Data
Submission Standards” as set forth by the Area Plan Commission.
      (4)   Ownership. Proof of ownership of the subdivision replat.
      (5)   Fee. The submission of a subdivision replat shall be accompanied by
fees as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
   (D)   Subdivision replat; review, appeal, and approval procedure. The
review, appeal, and approval procedure for subdivision replats shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Referral and review. The staff shall refer prints of the
subdivision replat to the appropriate agencies.
         (a)   1.   If the subdivision falls within a designated special flood
hazard area, the subdivision shall be reviewed by the Department of Natural
Resources.
            2.   If the proposed subdivision is to be located in a special
flood hazard area, the subdivider’s registered land surveyor or engineer shall
forward pertinent plans and materials to the Department of Natural Resources
for review and comment. Appropriate changes and modifications may be required
in order to assure that the development of the proposed subdivision is
consistent with the need to minimize flood damages, including, but not limited
to the following: all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; adequate drainage shall be provided so as to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
            3.   All subdivisions to be located in a special flood hazard area
shall have the elevation of the 100-year flood noted on the secondary plat and
a delineation of the special flood hazard area thereon.
         (b)   The staff may also refer the subdivision replat to any federal,
state, or county agency, board, or department which has regulations or rules
which affect the use or design of the subdivision replat, or the location or
height of structures to be placed within the subdivision replat.
         (c)   The agencies shall review the subdivision replat and submit a
report to the staff. The staff shall review the subdivision replat for
technical conformity with the standards fixed in the Subdivision Ordinance and
the requirements, recommendations and comments of the reviewing agencies, and
prepare a report with a recommendation for the Plat Committee’s consideration.
      (2)   Submission to Plat Committee. Within the time frame as established
by resolution of the Area Plan Commission, the staff shall announce the date,
time, and place of the meeting at which the Plat Committee shall consider the
subdivision replat, and shall give due notice in writing to all interested
parties at least 10 days before the date set for the hearing.
      (3)   Plat Committee consideration. After receiving the staff report and
recommendation, the Plat Committee shall consider the subdivision replat for
primary approval without public notice and hearing.
      (4)   Plat Committee action.
         (a)   If, after consideration, the Plat Committee finds that the
subdivision replat complies with all standards regarding primary approval of
subdivision replats, the Plat Committee shall give primary approval to the
subdivision replat, with or without modifications or conditions imposed, and
make written findings of fact and a decision which shall include any
modifications or conditions imposed. The Chairperson and Secretary of the Plat
Committee shall seal and certify 2 copies of the subdivision replat, provide
the subdivider’s registered land surveyor with 1 copy and retain the second
copy in the Area Plan Commission’s files.
         (b)   If, after consideration, the Plat Committee finds that the
subdivision replat does not comply with all standards regarding primary
approval of subdivision replats, the Plat Committee shall deny primary approval
to the subdivision replat and make written findings of fact and a decision
which sets forth its reasons for disapproval.
      (5)   Notice of Plat Committee’s action. Within 5 days after the Plat
Committee’s action on the subdivision replat, the Secretary of the Plat
Committee shall provide all interested parties with a copy of the findings of
fact and decision of the Plat Committee, and notify them in writing of their
right to appeal the Plat Committee’s decision to the Area Plan Commission.
Appeals shall be in writing, shall indicate the desire have the subdivision
replat reviewed by the Area Plan Commission, shall state the reason for such
appeal and shall be filed within 5 days of the date of the notice by the
Secretary.
      (6)   If no appeal has been filed.
         (a)   If the subdivision replat, for which primary and secondary
approval has been requested, received primary approval by the Plat Committee,
and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the date of the notice of Plat
Committee’s action, and all modifications or conditions placed upon the
subdivision replat by the Plat Committee, if any, have been complied with or
corrected, the staff shall grant secondary approval to the subdivision replat.
The Chairperson and Secretary of the Plat Committee shall seal and certify the
original drawing. The staff shall record the subdivision replat as set forth
below.
         (b)   If the subdivision replat, for which primary and secondary
approval has been requested, received primary approval by the Plat Committee,
and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the date of the notice of Plat
Committee’s action, and all modifications or conditions placed upon the
subdivision replat by the Plat Committee, if any, have not been complied with
or corrected within 2 years, the staff shall deny secondary approval to the
subdivision replat. The Secretary of the Plat Committee shall provide written
notice to the subdivider, which sets forth its reasons for denying secondary
approval, and release the original drawing of the subdivision replat to the
registered land surveyor who prepared it.
         (c)   If the subdivision replat was denied primary approval by the
Plat Committee and no appeal has been filed within 5 days of the notice of Plat
Committee’s action, the staff shall release the original drawing of the
subdivision replat to the registered land surveyor who prepared it.
      (7)   If an appeal has been filed. If an appeal has been filed within 5
days of the date of the notice of Plat Committee’s action, the staff shall
announce the date, time, and place of the meeting at which the Area Plan
Commission shall consider the subdivision, and shall give due notice in writing
to all interested parties at least 10 days before the date set for the hearing.
The staff shall prepare a report with a recommendation for Area Plan Commission
consideration.
      (8)   Area Plan Commission consideration. After receiving the staff
report and recommendation, the Area Plan Commission shall consider the
subdivision replat without public notice and hearing. The Area Plan Commission
shall consider the subdivision replat as though the Plat Committee had not
acted upon it. The subdivision replat shall be considered in its entirety, as
if it were a new submission, with all items considered, not just the items
appealed.
      (9)   Area Plan Commission action.
         (a)   If, after consideration, the Area Plan Commission finds that the
subdivision replat complies with all standards regarding primary approval of
subdivision replats, the Area Plan Commission shall give primary approval to
the subdivision replat, with or without modifications and conditions imposed,
and make written findings of fact and a decision, which shall include any
modifications or conditions imposed. The Secretary of the Area Plan Commission
shall then provide the subdivider with a copy of the findings of fact and
decision. The President and Secretary of the Area Plan Commission shall seal
and certify 2 copies of the subdivision replat and provide the subdivider’s
registered land surveyor with 1 copy along with a copy of the findings of fact
and decision, signed by the Secretary of the Area Plan Commission. The second
copy of the sealed and certified subdivision replat shall be retained in the
records of the Area Plan Commission. When all modifications or conditions
placed upon the subdivision replat by the Area Plan Commission, if any, have
been complied with or corrected the staff shall give secondary approval to the
subdivision replat. The President and Secretary of the Area Plan Commission
shall seal and certify the original drawing. The staff shall record the
subdivision replat as set forth below.
         (b)   If the subdivision replat, for which secondary approval has been
requested, received primary approval by the Area Plan Commission and all
modifications or conditions placed upon the subdivision by the Area Plan
Commission have not been complied with or corrected within 2 years, the staff
shall deny secondary approval to the subdivision replat. The Secretary of the
Area Plan Commission shall provide written notice to the subdivider, which sets
forth its reasons for denying secondary approval, and release the original
drawing of the subdivision replat to the registered land surveyor who prepared
it.
         (c)   If, after consideration, the Area Plan Commission finds that the
subdivision replat does not comply with all standards regarding primary
approval of subdivision replats, the Area Plan Commission shall deny the
subdivision replat primary approval and make written findings of fact and a
decision which sets forth its reasons for disapproval. The Secretary of the
Area Plan Commission shall provide the subdivider with a copy of the findings
of fact and decision, and release the original drawing to the subdivider’s
registered land surveyor.
      (10)   Recording. Within 7 days of secondary approval, the staff shall
record the subdivision replat in the Recorder’s office and so notify the
subdivider. The staff shall have the original drawing of the subdivision replat
duplicated at a reduced scale and release the original drawing to the
registered land surveyor who prepared it. The staff shall distribute reduced
copies of the subdivision replat as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1223, § 2.5, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 151.060 CORRECTIVE SECONDARY PLATS.
   The corrective secondary plat is intended to provide a streamlined process
for the approval of a corrective secondary plat to address minor corrections or
adjustments to a recorded secondary plat where such corrections or adjustments
are consistent with the intent, terms, and conditions of the original primary
plat as approved by the Plat Committee.
   (A)   Scope of corrective plats. Corrective plats may apply to an entire
recorded secondary plat or only that portion of a recorded secondary plat which
is impacted by the correction.
   (B)   Limitations on corrective plats. The provisions above for corrective
plats shall not be applicable to any of the following changes to a recorded
secondary plat.
      (1)   The vacation of a plat or portion of a plat, including plat
covenants required by the Plat Committee.
      (2)   The vacation of a public place.
      (3)   The vacation of a platted easement.
      (4)   The vacation of a public way or platted right-of-way.
      (5)   The vacation of any public lands or public places.
   (C)   Types of corrective secondary plat. There are 3 different types of
corrective secondary plats as follows.
      (1)   Type 1 corrective plat.
         (a)   A procedure whereby the surveying firm, or its successors or
assigns, or firm that employed the registered land surveyor who prepared a
recorded subdivision may correct the following minor drafting or typographical
errors:
            1.   The legal description, political jurisdiction, or section,
township, or range numbers;
            2.   Addition, deletion, or modification of a note that does not
affect the use or enjoyment of a lot;
            3.   Any bearing, distance, or curve data provided the bearing,
distance, or curve data of an adjoining lot or an easement that crosses or
adjoins a lot is not affected;
            4.   A misspelling; or
            5.   To correct an incorrect or missing signature(s).
         (b)   A Type 1 corrective plat may not change the name of a recorded
subdivision. A Type 1 corrective plat may be filed without the consent of the
property owners.
      (2)   Type 2 corrective plat. A procedure whereby any registered land
surveyor may correct the following drafting, typographical, or surveying
errors, or the name of a recorded subdivision where the owners of all the
affected lots have signed the corrective plat:
         (a)   The legal description, political jurisdiction, or section,
township, or range numbers;
         (b)   Addition, deletion, or modification of a note that does not
affect the use or enjoyment of a lot;
         (c)   Any bearing, distance, or curve data;
         (d)   A misspelling;
         (e)   Addition, deletion, or modification of a note that does not
affect the use or enjoyment of a lot;
         (f)   The addition, deletion, or modification of the delineation of a
feature (e.g., notations regarding areas subject to the National Flood
Insurance Program);
         (g)   The addition, location, size, or clarification of the function
of an easement (e.g., change of a “Sewer Easement” to a general “Drainage and
Utility Easement”);
         (h)   The name of a recorded subdivision; or
         (i)   To correct an incorrect or missing signature(s).
      (3)   Type 3 corrective plat.
         (a)   A procedure whereby any registered land surveyor may correct the
following drafting, typographical, or surveying errors where not all of the
owners of all the affected lots have signed the corrective plat:
            1.   The legal description, political jurisdiction, or section,
township, or range numbers;
            2.   Addition, deletion, or modification of a note that does not
affect the use or enjoyment of a lot;
            3.   Any bearing, distance or curve data;
            4.   A misspelling;
            5.   The delineation of a feature such as an area subject to the
National Flood Insurance Program;
            6.   The addition, location, size, or clarification of the function
of an easement (e.g., change of a “Sewer Easement” to a general “Drainage and
Utility Easement”); or
            7.   To correct an incorrect or missing signature(s).
         (b)   A Type 3 corrective plat may change a name of a recorded
subdivision only when at least 2/3 of the lot owners have agreed in writing to
the name change.
   (D)   Application procedure for Type 1 corrective plats. An application for
a Type 1 corrective plat may be submitted at the convenience of the firm, or
its successors or assigns, that employed the registered land surveyor or who
prepared the recorded subdivision. The submission shall contain the following.
      (1)   Drawing. An original drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen,
or Mylar film, at a scale not less than 1 inch equals 50 feet to 1 inch equals
200 feet. All printed numbers, letters, and typed information shall be in
capital letters with a minimum size of an 11 point type font so that the
drawing is adaptable to photographic reduction and will maintain complete
legibility. The original drawing shall be accompanied by 3 prints and include
the following.
         (a)   The name of the Type 1 corrective plat shall be: “The name and
section number of the recorded subdivision being corrected followed by [number,
i.e. 1st] Corrective Plat”. The Area Plan Commission staff shall assign the
number.
         (b)   Location of the Type 1 corrective plat by section, township,
range, and governmental township.
         (c)   Lot numbers.
         (d)   All easements, including their functions, labeled and
dimensioned.
         (e)   Building setback lines, labeled and dimensioned.
         (f)   All right-of-way lines, labeled and dimensioned.
         (g)   Name, address, seal, signature, and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing the Type 1 corrective plat.
         (h)   Name and address of the registered land surveyor who prepared
the recorded subdivision being corrected and the name and address of the
surveying firm, if any, who employed the registered land surveyor.
         (i)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (j)   A blank area 4 inches vertical by 9 inches horizontal, within
which the Area Plan Commission may affix its certificate of approval without
obscuring or obliterating any other items on the Type 1 corrective plat.
         (k)   Date of recording and instrument number of the recorded
subdivision for which the Type 1 corrective plat is being submitted.
         (l)   If the error being corrected is a bearing, distance, curve data,
or other dimension, indicate only the incorrect and correct data. Unaffected
bearing, distance, curve data, or other dimension need not be shown.
         (m)   Any information that is necessary to explain the error being
corrected, or the reason for the correction.
         (n)   The drawing shall be accompanied by such other information as
the Area Plan Commission may require under the provisions of this chapter.
         (o)   A “Certificate for Correction of Errors” which includes the name
of the registered land surveyor who prepared the Type 1 corrective plat, a
complete description of the error, and identifies how the recorded and correct
data are noted or identified on the drawing.
         (p)   A statement by the registered land surveyor preparing the Type 1
corrective plat that the correction does not affect the name, section number,
lot numbers, or letters of the recorded subdivision; a bearing, distance, or
curve data of a lot line; or a bearing, distance, curve data, or function of an
easement.
      (2)   Digital data submission. All Type 1 corrective plats submitted for
secondary review shall include a digital copy of the proposed subdivision
prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in the “Digital Data
Submission Standards” as set forth by the Area Plan Commission.
      (3)   Fee. The submission of the Type 1 corrective plat shall be
accompanied by fees as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (4)   Application. A completed application upon forms provided and in a
manner prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
   (E)   Type 1 corrective plat; referral, review, approval, and recording
procedures.
      (1)   Referral and review. After the filing date, the staff may, if
necessary, refer prints of the corrective plat to the appropriate agencies for
their review and recommendation. The agencies shall review the Type 1
corrective plat and submit a report to the staff. The staff shall review the
Type 1 corrective plat for technical conformity with the standards fixed in
this chapter and the requirements, recommendations, and comments of the
appropriate agencies.
      (2)   Consideration. Upon receipt of the reports, if any, from the
appropriate agencies and completion of its own review, the staff shall consider
the Type 1 corrective plat without public notice or hearing and determine
whether the Type 1 corrective plat meets the requirements of this subchapter.
      (3)   Staff action.
         (a)   If, after consideration, the staff finds that the Type 1
corrective plat complies with all standards regarding primary and secondary
approval of Type 1 corrective plats, the staff shall grant primary and
secondary approval. The Chairperson and Secretary of the Committee shall seal
and certify the corrective plat. The staff shall record the Type 1 corrective
plat as set forth below.
         (b)   If, after consideration, the staff finds that the Type 1
corrective plat does not comply with all standards regarding primary and
secondary approval of Type 1 corrective plats, the staff shall deny primary and
secondary approval to the Type 1 corrective plat. The Secretary of the
Committee shall provide written notice to the registered land surveyor which
sets forth the reasons for disapproval, and release the original drawing to the
registered land surveyor who prepared it.
   (F)   Application procedure for Type 2 corrective plats. An application for
a Type 2 corrective plat may be submitted at the convenience of the registered
land surveyor. The submission shall contain the following.
      (1)   Drawing. An original drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen,
or Mylar film, at a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet to 1 inch equals 200 feet.
All printed numbers, letters, and typed information shall be in capital letters
with a minimum size of an 11 point type font so that the drawing is adaptable
to photographic reduction and will maintain complete legibility. The original
drawing shall be accompanied by 3 prints and include the following.
         (a)   Except when the purpose of a Type 2 corrective plat is to change
the name of a subdivision, the name of the Type 2 corrective plat shall be the
name and section number of the recorded subdivision being corrected followed by
a number assigned by the Area Plan Commission staff (e.g., 1st) and the words
“corrective plat”. If the purpose of the Type 2 corrective plat is to change
the name, the name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or closely
approximate the name of any other subdivision within the incorporated areas of
the county.
         (b)   Location of the Type 2 corrective plat by section, township,
range, and governmental township.
         (c)   Lot numbers.
         (d)   All easements, including their functions, labeled and
dimensioned.
         (e)   Building setback lines, labeled and dimensioned.
         (f)   All right-of-way lines, labeled and dimensioned.
         (g)   Name, address, seal, signature, and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing the Type 2 corrective plat.
         (h)   Name and address of the registered land surveyor who prepared
the recorded subdivision being corrected and the name and address of the
surveying firm, if any, who employed the registered land surveyor.
         (i)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (j)   A blank area 4 inches vertical by 9 inches horizontal, within
which the Area Plan Commission may affix its certificate of approval without
obscuring or obliterating any other items on the Type 2 corrective plat.
         (k)   Date of recording and instrument number of the recorded
subdivision for which the Type 2 corrective plat is being submitted.
         (l)   If the error being corrected is a bearing, distance, curve data,
or other dimension, indicate only the incorrect and correct data. Unaffected
bearing, distance, curve data, or other dimension need not be shown.
         (m)   Any information that is necessary to explain the error being
corrected, or the reason for the correction.
         (n)   The drawing shall be accompanied by such other information as
the Area Plan Commission may require under the provisions of this chapter.
         (o)   A “Certificate for Correction of Errors” which includes the name
of the registered land surveyor who prepared the Type 2 corrective plat, a
complete description of the error, and identifies how the recorded and correct
data are noted or identified on the drawing.
         (p)   Lots, lot numbers, and the names and addresses of lot owners
immediately adjacent to the lot line, curve, or easement being corrected.
      (2)   Ownership. Proof of ownership of any lot affected by the Type 2
corrective plat for correcting errors shall be submitted.
      (3)   Property owners list. A list of all affected property owners, as of
10 days before the Type 2 corrective plat is submitted to the Area Plan
Commission.
      (4)   Signatures of all affected owners. All affected owners shall sign
the plat.
      (5)   Notary statement. Notarization and seal as prescribed by the Area
Plan Commission.
      (6)   Digital data submission. All Type 2 corrective plats submitted for
secondary review shall include a digital copy of the proposed subdivision
prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in the “Digital Data
Submission Standards” as set forth by the Area Plan Commission.
      (7)   Fee. The submission of Type 2 corrective plats shall be accompanied
by fees as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (8)   Application. A completed application upon forms provided and in a
manner prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
   (G)   Type 2 corrective plat; referral, review, appeal, and approval
procedure. The primary and secondary review, consideration, action, notice of
committee action, appeal procedures, notice of Area Plan Commission action, and
recording procedures shall be the same as for a minor subdivision and as set
out in §
151.057.
   (H)   Application procedure for Type 3 corrective plats. An application for
a Type 3 corrective plat may be submitted at the convenience of the registered
land surveyor. The submission shall contain the following.
      (1)   Drawing. An original drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen,
or Mylar film, at a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet to 1 inch equals 200 feet.
All printed numbers, letters and typed information shall be in capital letters
with a minimum size of an 11 point type font so that the drawing is adaptable
to photographic reduction and will maintain complete legibility. The original
drawing shall be accompanied by 3 prints and include the following.
      (2)   Purpose. Except when the purpose of a Type 3 corrective plat is to
change the name of a subdivision, the name of the Type 3 corrective plat shall
be the name and section number of the recorded subdivision being corrected
followed by a number assigned by the Area Plan Commission staff (e.g., 1st) and
the words “corrective plat.” If the purpose of the Type 3 corrective plat is to
change the name, the name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or closely
approximate the name of any other subdivision within the incorporated areas of
the county.
         (a)   Location of the Type 3 corrective plat by section, township,
range, and governmental township.
         (b)   Lot numbers.
         (c)   All easements, including their functions, labeled and
dimensioned.
         (d)   Building setback lines, labeled and dimensioned.
         (e)   All right-of-way lines, labeled and dimensioned.
         (f)   Name, address, seal, signature and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing the Type 3 corrective plat.
         (g)   Name and address of the registered land surveyor who prepared
the recorded subdivision being corrected and the name and address of the
surveying firm, if any, who employed the registered land surveyor.
         (h)   Numeric scale, graphic bar scale, north point, and date.
         (i)   A blank area 4 inches vertical by 9 inches horizontal, within
which the Area Plan Commission may affix its certificate of approval without
obscuring or obliterating any other items on the corrective plat.
         (j)   Date of recording and instrument number of the recorded
subdivision for which the Type 3 corrective plat is being submitted.
         (k)   If the error being corrected is a bearing, distance, curve data
or other dimension, show only the incorrect and correct data. No other bearing,
distance, curve data, or other dimension need be shown.
         (l)   Any information that is necessary to explain the error being
corrected, or the reason for the correction.
         (m)   The drawing shall be accompanied by such other information as
the Area Plan Commission may require under the provisions of this chapter.
         (n)   A “Certificate for Correction of Errors” which includes the name
of the registered land surveyor who prepared the Type 3 corrective plat, a
complete description of the error, and identifies how the recorded and correct
data are noted or identified on the drawing.
         (o)   Lots, lot numbers, and the names and addresses of lot owners
immediately adjacent to the line, curve or easement being corrected.
      (3)   Ownership. Proof of ownership of all lots affected by the Type 3
corrective plat for correcting errors shall be submitted.
      (4)   Property owners list.
         (a)   A list of all affected property owners, as of the day before the
Type 3 corrective plat for correcting errors is submitted to the Area Plan
Commission, prepared and certified by an abstract company.
         (b)   Two sets of addressed and stamped envelopes for delivery by
registered mail with return receipts for affected property owners.
      (5)   Signatures of owners petitioning for the Type 3 corrective plat. At
least 1 of the affected owners shall sign the plat.
      (6)   Notary statement. Notarization and seal as prescribed by the Area
Plan Commission.
      (7)   Digital data submission. All Type 3 corrective plats submitted for
secondary review shall include a digital copy of the proposed subdivision
prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in the “Digital Data
Submission Standards” as set forth by the Area Plan Commission.
      (8)   Fee. The submission of the Type 3 corrective plat shall be
accompanied by fees as prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
      (9)   Application. A completed application upon forms provided and in a
manner prescribed by the Area Plan Commission.
   (I)   Type 3 corrective plat; referral, review, appeal and approval
procedure. The primary and secondary review, consideration, action, notice of
Committee action, appeal procedures, notice of Area Plan Commission action, and
recording procedures shall be the same as for a major subdivision and as set
out in §
151.058.
   (J)   Recording of corrective plats. The staff shall record an approved
corrective plat within 7 days of approval in the Recorder’s office and so
notify the registered land surveyor. The staff shall have the original drawing
of the corrective plat duplicated at a reduced scale and release the original
drawing to the registered land surveyor who prepared it. The staff shall
distribute reduced copies of the corrective plat as prescribed by the Area Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 1223, § 2.6, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.061 COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   All improvements, installations, and lot improvements required by this
chapter shall either be: complete and maintenance thereof assured; or assurance
for their completion and maintenance shall be provided as set forth below, for
all subdivisions which involve the dedication and extension of any easement or
public improvement, or the acceptance of any easement or public improvement by
the town. Minor residential subdivisions which do not involve the dedication
and extension of any easement or public improvement shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Completion of improvements, installations, and lot improvements.
Before the secondary plat is signed by the President and Secretary of the Area
Plan Commission, the subdivider shall complete, in accordance with the Area
Plan Commission’s decision and to the satisfaction of the town, all public
improvements (including, but not limited to: street, street signs, municipal
water, municipal electric, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, sidewalk, and water)
and lot improvements (including, but not limited to: erosion control, final
grading and soil preservation, lot drainage, removal of debris and waste,
fencing, and lawn seeding or sodding), as required by this chapter and
specified in the secondary plat approved pursuant to this chapter, and dedicate
the public improvements to the town, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances on the dedicated property and public improvements.
   (B)   Surety for improvements, installations and lot improvements.
      (1)   Before the secondary plat is signed by the President and Secretary
of the Area Plan Commission, the subdivider shall post a performance bond or
irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to the Area Plan Commission
and the town, in which the subdivider covenants to complete all required
sanitary sewer, water system, street base, binder and curbs and storm drainage
improvements no later than 2 years following the date on which the certificate
of approval of secondary plat is duly signed, and to complete all other
required improvements, installations, and lot improvements, including but not
limited to sidewalks, erosion control, fencing, debris and waste removal, soil
preservation, lot drainage, final grading and lawn preparation, street signs,
monumentation, and street topcoat improvements. The subdivider shall covenant
to maintain each required improvement and also shall warrant that all required
improvements will be free from defects for a period of 3 years following the
acceptance by the town of the dedication of the last completed improvement. The
performance bond shall provide that the covenants contained in the performance
bond shall run with the land and bind all heirs, executors, administrators,
successors, and assigns of the subdivider. The performance bond shall contain
such other terms and conditions as agreed to by the subdivider and the Area
Plan Commission and the town.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide a performance bond or irrevocable
letter of credit before the certificate of approval of the Area Plan Commission
is affixed and attached to the secondary plat and duly signed.
         (a)   A performance bond shall:
            1.   Run to the Town Council;
            2.   Be in an amount equal to 125% of the cost, as established
pursuant to an estimate submitted to and approved by the Town Engineer, for the
completion of all improvements and installations required by this chapter;
            3.   Provide surety satisfactory to the town;
            4.   Be in effect until compliance with the terms and provisions of
the performance bond and the execution of a written release of performance bond
by the Town Engineer;
            5.   Specify that all improvements and installations shall be
completed in accordance with the requirements and specifications of this
chapter:
               a.   For single family or 2 family subdivisions, prior to the
time that single family or 2 family dwellings are upon 90% of the lots shown
upon the secondary plat, or within 3 years after the date on which the
certificate of approval of the Area Plan Commission is duly signed and affixed
to the secondary plat, whichever occurs first; or
               b.   For multifamily, commercial, or industrial subdivisions,
within 3 years after the date on which the certificate of approval of the Area
Plan Commission is duly signed and affixed to the secondary plat.
            6.   Provide that upon completion of the improvements and
installations, but prior to acceptance thereof for public maintenance by the
town, the subdivider shall provide a maintenance bond as required by this
chapter;
            7.   The performance bond shall be filed on bond or letter of
credit forms approved for use by the Area Plan Commission; and
            8.   The beneficiary of all performance bonds shall be the Town
Council.
         (b)   An irrevocable letter of credit shall:
            1.   Run to the Town Council;
            2.   Be in an amount equal to 125% of the cost, as established
pursuant to an estimate submitted to and approved by the Town Engineer, for the
completion of all improvements and installations required by this chapter;
            3.   Provide surety satisfactory to the town;
            4.   Be in effect until:
               a.   The execution of a written release of irrevocable letter of
credit by the Town Engineer;
               b.   Compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter;
               c.   All improvements and installations have been completed in
accordance with the requirements and specifications of this chapter:
                  i.   For single family or 2 family subdivisions, prior to the
time that single family or 2 family dwellings are upon 90% of the lots shown
upon the secondary plat or within 3 years after the date on which the
certificate of approval of the Area Plan Commission is duly signed and affixed
to the secondary plat, whichever occurs first; or
                  ii.   For multifamily, commercial or industrial subdivisions,
within 3 years after the date on which the certificate of approval of the Area
Plan Commission is duly signed and affixed to the secondary plat.
               d.   The provision by the subdivider of a maintenance bond as
required by this chapter prior to acceptance of improvements and installations
for public maintenance by the town.
            5.   The irrevocable letter of credit shall be filed on letter of
credit forms approved for use by the Area Plan Commission; and
            6.   The beneficiary of all irrevocable letters of credit shall be
the Town Council.
   (C)   Proof of compliance.  Upon completion of all improvements and
installations as required by this chapter, the subdivider shall furnish the
Town Engineer with appropriate documentation indicating that the improvements,
installations, and lot improvements have been constructed, installed, and
completed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the requirements
of the Area Plan Commission and the provisions of other applicable ordinances
of the town.
   (D)   Completion letter. Upon acceptance of a required improvement or
installation, the town shall provide a completion letter to the subdivider
stating that the required improvements and installations for which the town is
responsible have been accepted for maintenance by the town, subject to the
terms of a maintenance bond, as required below, and shall file a copy of the
completion letter with the Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission.
   (E)   Maintenance bond. Upon completion of all required improvements and
installations, but prior to the acceptance of such improvements and
installations for public maintenance, the subdivider shall provide a 3-year
maintenance bond, with the subdivider or some other person satisfactory to the
Town as principal, which shall:
      (1)   Run to the Town Council of New Carlisle;
      (2)   Be in an amount equal to 10% of the amount of the performance bond
for the improvements and installations subject to the maintenance bond;
      (3)   Provide surety satisfactory to the town;
      (4)   Warrant the workmanship and materials used in the construction,
installation and completion of said improvements and installations to be of
good quality and have been constructed and completed in a workmanlike manner in
accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of this chapter
and the satisfactory construction plans and specifications therefor submitted
to the Town Engineer;
      (5)   Provide that for a period of 3 years after formal acceptance, the
subdivider shall, at the subdivider’s expense, make all repairs to the
improvements and installations, or the foundations thereof, which may become
necessary by reason of improper workmanship or materials, but not including any
damage to the improvements and installations resulting from forces or
circumstances beyond the control of the subdivider or occasioned by the
inadequacy of the standards, specifications or requirements of this ordinance;
      (6)   Maintenance bonds shall be filed on forms substantially as set
forth in Appendix C of this chapter; and
      (7)   The beneficiary of all maintenance bonds shall be the Town Council.
   (F)   Use of bond funds. Any funds received from the performance bonds for
subdivision improvements and installations or from the maintenance bonds for
the maintenance of improvements and installations required by this chapter
shall be used only for the purpose of making improvements, installations, or
repair, for which the bonds were provided in accordance with the standards,
specifications, and requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Deferral or waiver of required improvements.
      (1)   The Area Plan Commission shall have the authority to defer or
waive, in its discretion, at the time of primary plat approval and subject to
any appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all of the public
improvements required by this chapter which, in the judgment of the Area Plan
Commission, are: not required to protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare; inappropriate because of incompatible grades, future planning, the
inadequacy or non-existence of connecting facilities; or inappropriate for
other reasons presented to and agreed to by the Area Plan Commission. Any
determination to defer or waive the provisions of any public improvements or
installations required by this chapter shall be accomplished by way of a
motion, approved by a majority vote of the Area Plan Commission at a public
hearing, which motion shall include the reasons for the deferral or waiver.
      (2)   When the Area Plan Commission, in its discretion, determines that a
deferral of an improvement or installation is appropriate, the subdivider shall
post a separate performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit, in an amount
determined by the town, guaranteeing completion of the deferred improvements or
installations upon demand by the town.
   (H)   Approval of construction plans. No construction of any improvement
within a subdivision required by this chapter, the Area Plan Commission, Plat
Committee, or any other applicable ordinance of the town, shall commence prior
to the approval of construction plans by the Town Engineer, Public Works
Director, and the Town Council. Failure to obtain approval of construction
plans prior to commencement of construction is a violation of this chapter
which is enforceable under the provisions of division (I) of this section.
   (I)   Compliance and enforcement. Compliance with the terms and provisions
of this chapter shall be a prerequisite for the use and development of real
property within the town. Failure of a developer or subdivider to comply with
the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be a civil zoning
violation enforceable by the Area Plan Commission as provided in I.C. 36-7-4 et
seq. and §§
152.405 through
152.413. For the purposes of enforcing this chapter, the term “staff” as used
in §§
152.405 through
152.413 shall also include any applicable Town Engineer, the County Surveyor,
or an authorized agent of such engineer or surveyor, which shall specifically
have the right of entry for inspection purposes and the power to issue a cease
and desist order, all in accordance with §§
152.405 through
152.413.
(Ord. 1223, § 2.7, passed 5-11-2010)
REQUIREMENTS FOR DESIGN, RESERVATIONS, AND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.075 GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   In addition to the requirements established in this chapter, the subdivider
is required to follow other laws, rules, and regulations which have been duly
adopted under state law, which apply to all subdivision plats. In particular,
the subdivider is required to comply with the following laws, rules, and
regulations:
   (A)   All applicable state and local statutory provisions;
   (B)   The town Zoning Ordinance, Building Code, and all other applicable
laws and ordinances of the appropriate jurisdictions;
   (C)   Adopted plans of the town, including but not limited to the
Comprehensive Plan, thoroughfare plan, as shown in the Comprehensive Plan,
parks plan, master water plan, master electric plan, master sewer plan, master
utilities plan and capital improvements program, including all streets,
drainage systems, and parks shown on the Comprehensive Plan;
   (D)   The special requirements of this chapter and any applicable rules of
the County Health Department and appropriate state agencies;
   (E)   The standards, rules, and regulations of the Indiana Department of
Transportation, if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abut a state
highway;
   (F)   The standards and specifications adopted by the Town Engineer and all
Boards, Commissions, agencies and officials of the town; and
   (G)   All pertinent standards contained within still valid planning guides
published and adopted by the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.1, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.076 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement.
      (1)   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
improvement location permits or building permits to build on all lots in
compliance with the town Zoning Ordinance, Building Code or other applicable
local, state, or federal regulations.
      (2)   The design, character, grade, location, and orientation of all lots
shall be appropriate for the uses proposed, and logically related to existing
and proposed topography.
      (3)   Every lot shall have sufficient and adequate access to a street
constructed, or to be constructed, in accordance with the provisions,
standards, and specifications of this chapter.
   (B)   Block and lot numbering.
      (1)   Blocks shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in alphabetical
order. The blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the same name
shall be numbered and lettered consecutively throughout the several additions.
      (2)   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered. Out lots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order. If blocks are numbered or lettered,
out lots shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block.
   (C)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)   Lot dimensions, including but not limited to lot width, lot depth,
and lot area, shall comply with the minimum standards of the applicable zoning
ordinance, zoning commitment, or variance grant.
      (2)   Land reserved for any proposed street, drainage pond, wetland, or
lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be counted in satisfying the
minimum yard and lot area requirements of the town Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   In general, lots shall be arranged so that:
         (a)   Side lot lines are at right angles to street lines (or radial to
curving street lines) unless a deviation from this rule will give a better
street or lot plan;
         (b)   Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow for the
erection of buildings while observing the minimum required front yard setback
applicable on each street frontage; and
         (c)   Commercial or industrial lots shall be of adequate size and
configuration to provide for off-street parking, off-street loading,
residential bufferyards, and other applicable requirements of the town Zoning
Ordinance.
   (D)   Lot orientation. The lot line common to the street right-of-way line
shall be the front lot line. All lots shall, whenever practical, face the front
lot line. Whenever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear lot lines
do not abut the side lot line of an adjacent lot.
   (E)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall be avoided whenever
practical. Double frontage lots may be acceptable when necessary to provide for
the separation of a development and its related access points from the traffic
on a bordering thoroughfare or collector street or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation affecting the subdivision.
   (F)   Triple frontage lots. Triple frontage lots (i.e., those lots which
have frontage on 3 streets and do not include a non-access easement along the
abutting major streets) shall be prohibited in residential developments.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
 
   (G)   Lot access. Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from
a thoroughfare or collector street. Where a driveway from a primary or
secondary street is determined to be necessary, the Area Plan Commission may
require that such driveway be developed as a common driveway or frontage street
in order to limit possible traffic hazards on the primary or secondary street.
Where possible, driveways shall be designed and arranged so as to avoid
requiring or encouraging vehicles to back into traffic on primary or secondary
streets.
   (H)   Lot drainage. All lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general storm water drainage pattern for the Subdivision.
Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid the concentration of storm water
runoff from a lot onto adjacent lots. Each lot owner shall maintain the lot
grade, as it relates to storm water drainage, in compliance with the approved
construction plans.
   (I)   Debris and waste. No junk, rubbish, or other waste materials of any
kind, whether natural (i.e., cut trees, debris, or rocks) or construction
related (i.e., concrete or building materials) shall be buried in any land at
any time, nor shall these materials be left or deposited on any lot or street
at the time of the release of the maintenance bond. No items and materials
described above shall be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at
the time of dedication of public improvements.
   (J)   Soil preservation, final grading and lawn preparation.
      (1)   No final certificate of occupancy shall be issued until final
grading and seeding or sodding has been completed for the entire lot including
the area between the street curb and the sidewalk in accordance with approved
construction plans, except those portions of the lot covered by buildings,
parking areas, interior access drives, or other improvements authorized by
improvement location permit, or where the grade has not been changed and
natural vegetation has not been damaged.
      (2)   It is recommended that all lawn areas not provided with automatic
irrigation systems should be seeded or sodded during the planting seasons of
between March 15 and May 15, or between August 15 and September 30 of each
year.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator/Building Commissioner may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy between October 1 and March 15, or between
May 15 and August 15 of each year conditioned upon the completion of seeding or
sodding during the next planting season.
   (K)   Waterbodies and watercourses. No part of the minimum lot area required
under the applicable zoning ordinance, zoning commitment, or variance grant may
be satisfied by land that is under water. Where a watercourse separates the
buildable area of the lot from the street by which it has access, provisions
shall be made for the installation of a culvert or other appropriate structure,
of a design approved by the Town Engineer. If a subdivision contains an
existing or to be developed waterbody, watercourse, or portion thereof,
appropriate documentary assurances acceptable to the town shall be provided for
the maintenance of the waterbody or watercourse.
   (L)   Fencing. The Area Plan Commission may, in its discretion, require the
subdivider to install fencing on or around such lot, block, common area, or
other portion of a proposed subdivision in order to mitigate a potential
hazard. Fencing so required shall be installed in accordance with standards
required by the Area Plan Commission and approved by the Town Engineer.
   (M)   Building setback lines. Minimum building setback lines shall be
regulated by the setback provisions of the town Zoning Ordinance applicable to
the subdivision. Setbacks in excess of the Zoning Ordinance standards may be
platted; however, such excess setback requirements will not be enforced by the
town unless the excess setback requirement is part of a zoning commitment or
variance grant.
   (N)   Lot addressing. Addresses for all lots within a subdivision shall
conform as closely as practical to the address grid pattern established for the
town. The east/west baseline grid shall be Filbert Street. The north/south
baseline grid shall be Michigan. Wherever possible, the grid pattern for new
subdivisions shall be laid out so as to reserve 1 address number for each 20
feet of frontage of a lot. Addresses shall conform to the nearest number which
approximates the location of the proposed driveway, building, or entrance
doorway on a lot. Numbers assigned to the west side of north/south streets and
the north side of east/west streets shall be even numbers. Numbers assigned to
east side of north/south streets and the south side of east/west streets shall
be odd numbers.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.2, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.077 STREETS.
   (A)   Classification. All proposed subdivision plats submitted for Area Plan
Commission approval pursuant to this chapter shall allocate adequate areas for
streets in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and shall designate and label
all such streets thereon in accordance with the street classifications set
forth below.
      (1)   Collector street.
      (2)   Local street.
      (3)   Private street.
      (4)   Public street.
      (5)   Thoroughfare street.
   (B)   General requirements for street design. All streets, whether public or
private, shall comply with the following general requirements for street
design.
      (1)   Street names. Streets which are extensions or a continuation of, or
obviously in alignment with, any existing streets, either constructed or
appearing on any validly recorded plat or survey, or valid plat previously
approved by the Area Plan Commission, shall bear the names of such existing
streets. Names for all other streets shall be sufficiently different in sound
and in spelling from other streets in the town or other nearby areas so as to
avoid confusion. All street name assignments shall be coordinated with the
County Surveyor and the local emergency 911 system.
      (2)   Alleys. Alleys may be proposed in such instances where the use of
alleys is specifically approved by the Area Plan Commission, or where the
development represents an in-fill situation and the use of alleys would be
compatible with the development pattern of the area surrounding the proposed
subdivision.
      (3)   Access to areas abutting thoroughfares. If the proposed subdivision
abuts upon or contains an existing or proposed thoroughfare, the street plan
shall provided vehicular access to each lot abutting such streets by one of the
following means:
         (a)   A frontage street running generally parallel to thoroughfares
and whose right-of-way is separate from the right-of-way of the thoroughfare;
         (b)   A local or collector street running generally parallel to the
thoroughfare street with the rear of the lots backing up to the thoroughfare
street and no access shall be provided to the thoroughfare street; or
         (c)   A series of cul-de-sac streets, U-shaped streets, or short loop
streets entered from and designed generally at right angles to a local or
collector street running generally parallel to the thoroughfare street, with
the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the thoroughfare street.
      (4)   Secondary means of access.
         (a)   Secondary access to a subdivision. Any major residential
subdivision which contains 30 or more lots shall provide 1 of the following,
back to a point of intersection with an internal street network where all lots
can be accessed by more than 1 direction. A temporary access road may be used
to satisfy this requirement if the design and width of the temporary access
road is approved by both the Town Engineer and the Plat Committee:
            1.   Provide a secondary means of access from an improved perimeter
public street; or
            2.   Provide a divided collector street as the means of access from
an improved perimeter public street.
         (b)   Secondary access within a subdivision. Within a major
residential subdivision, no portion of the subdivision shall include more than
30 lots which cannot be accessed from more than 1 direction.
         (c)   Remote secondary access. Any major residential subdivision which
contains 60 or more lots shall provide a remote secondary means of access that
is separated from at least 1 other access point into the subdivision by a
distance apart equal to not less than 1/2 of the length of the maximum overall
diagonal dimension of the property or area to be served, measured in a straight
line between access points.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
 
         (d)   Design of remote secondary access.
            1.   A remote secondary means of access may be designed as:
               a.   A dedicated public street; or
               b.   A gated or un-gated emergency vehicle access easement
providing direct access to an improved perimeter public street or connecting to
a public street in an abutting subdivision which provides access to an improved
perimeter public street.
            2.   If a remote secondary means of access is provided by way of an
emergency vehicle access easement, the emergency vehicle access easement shall
be designed to comply with the requirements for a “Fire Apparatus Access Road,”
including having a minimum pavement width of 20 feet and being constructed of a
heavy duty pavement section of asphalt, concrete or other driving surface
approved by the Town Fire Chief or his or her designee, and capable of
supporting an imposed load of fire apparatus weighing at least 75,000 pounds.
      (5)   Dead end streets. Permanently dead-end streets (except for cul-de-
sac streets provided in compliance with the provisions of this chapter) shall
be prohibited. A temporary dead-end street may be permitted in any case in
which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended beyond the
limits of the subdivision, but is not yet constructed beyond the subdivision
limits. The right-of-way of a temporary dead-end street shall extend to the
property line of the subdivision. An adequate easement for turnaround shall be
provided for any such temporary dead-end street which extends 250 feet or more,
with a temporary turnaround provided. A notation on the plat shall state that
the land outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert to the abutting
lots and property owners when the street is continued, constructed and, if a
public street, accepted by the town.
      (6)   Frontage on improved streets.
         (a)   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be
subdivided shall have frontage on and gain access from:
            1.   An existing town, county, or state street; or
            2.   A street shown upon a plat approved by the Area Plan
Commission and recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
         (b)   Such street must be improved as required by the rules,
regulations, or specifications of the responsible agency, or be secured by a
performance bond as required by this chapter, with the width of the right-of-
way and pavement to be in compliance with the thoroughfare plan, as shown in
the Comprehensive Plan, and this chapter.
      (7)   Grading and improvement plan. Streets shall be graded and improved
to conform with the construction standards and specifications set forth in the
town standards and in Table 151.077: Minimum Design Standards for Streets, at
the end of this section. Such construction standards and specifications shall
be indicated on construction plans required prior to secondary plat approval
and shall be approved as to design and specification by the Town Engineer and
the Public Works Director.
      (8)   Topography and arrangement.
         (a)   Streets shall be appropriately related to site topography. All
streets shall, wherever practical, be arranged so as to maximize the number of
lots located at, or above, the street grades. Street grades shall conform as
closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades
and sharp curves shall be avoided wherever practical.
         (b)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established in
the thoroughfare plan, as shown in the Comprehensive Plan.
         (c)   Local streets shall be laid out to conform to as much as
possible to the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient, safe, and efficient access to the
subdivision.
         (d)   Proposed collector streets shall, where appropriate, be extended
to the boundary lines of the subdivision unless the extension is prevented by
topography or other physical conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Area
Plan Commission, the extension is not necessary or desirable for the purpose of
coordinating with existing street layouts or providing for the most
advantageous development of future tracts.
         (e)   Streets, access drives, driveways, interior access driveways,
and interior access drives shall be planned in connection with the groupings of
buildings, location of rail facilities, and the provision of public or private
alleys, truck loading areas and truck maneuvering areas, walkways,
bikeways, and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the
various types of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (9)   Street signs, pavement markings, and traffic-control signs. The
subdivider shall provide street signs at every street intersection within the
subdivision. The subdivider shall also provide pavement markings and traffic-
control signs at required locations. All street signs, pavement markings, and
traffic-control signs shall conform to the town standards and the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways as published
by the Indiana Department of Transportation.
      (10)   Street lights. The subdivider shall provide and install street
lights within the subdivision to conform with the town construction standards
and specifications for street lights. Street light plans shall be approved by
the Town Engineer, Public Works Director, and the Town Council.
      (11)   Reserve strips. Except where specifically authorized by the Area
Plan Commission for the purpose of minimizing traffic conflicts with
thoroughfare streets or railroads, the creation of reserve strips adjacent to
the right-of-way which may be used to deny access to a street shall not be
permitted, unless a written agreement between the subdivider and the town,
setting forth the terms for the sale of such strip or area, is submitted to the
Plat Committee at the time the subdivision is submitted for secondary approval.
      (12)   Arrangement of streets. In order to provide for the convenient
movement of traffic, effective fire protection, efficient provision of
utilities or where such connection is in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan, streets shall be arranged so as to provide for the continuation of
collector streets and larger streets between adjacent subdivisions.
      (13)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sac streets, when approved by the Area
Plan Commission, shall not normally be located nearer to a subdivision boundary
than 50 feet. All cul-de-sac streets shall be provided with adequate rights-of-
way and pavement width in accordance with the design specifications of the town
construction standards and specifications set forth in the town standards and
Table 151.077: Minimum Design Standards for Streets. The Area Plan Commission
may, however, require the provision of appropriate easements between the end of
the cul-de-sac and the subdivision boundary necessary to accommodate drainage
facilities, pedestrian ways, or utilities. In no event shall a cul-de-sac
measure more than 800 feet in length, measured from centerline of an
intersecting street (excluding another cul-de-sac) to the center point of the
radius of the turnaround.
      (14)   New perimeter streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an
existing half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The Area Plan
Commission may authorize a new perimeter street around a proposed subdivision
where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required right-of-way
width within the boundary of the proposed subdivision.
      (15)   Widening and realignment of existing streets. Where a subdivision
boarders an existing narrow street or when the thoroughfare plan, as shown in
the Comprehensive Plan indicates plans for realignment or widening of a street
that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the subdivider
shall be required to dedicate that portion of the existing street which is
contained within the land subject to the secondary plat of the subdivision to
the full width required by this chapter, and improve the street as required by
the Area Plan Commission. Land reserved for any street purposes shall not be
counted in satisfying the minimum yard or lot area requirements of the town
Zoning Ordinance.
      (16)   Dedication. All public streets shall be dedicated to the town on
the secondary plat free and clear of all liens and encumbrances by use of the
following language: “All streets shown on this plat, and not heretofore
dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana.”
   (C)   Design standards for all public streets. In order to provide for
streets which are of a suitable location, width, material, and improvement to
accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory access to police,
firefighting, snow removal, sanitation, and road maintenance equipment, and to
coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient system and avoid undue
hardships to adjoining properties, all streets which are to be dedicated to and
accepted for maintenance by the town shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with:
      (1)   Table 151.077: Minimum Design Standards for Streets, following
division (F) of this section;
      (2)   Current town standards as approved by the Town Council;
      (3)   American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
(AASHTO): A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets (commonly
referred to as the “Green Book”);
      (4)   Indiana Department of Transportation Standard Specifications; and
      (5)   Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways.
   (D)   Excess right-of-way. Right-of-way widths in excess of those
recommended by the thoroughfare plan, as shown in the Comprehensive Plan and
required by this chapter shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide for adequate and stable earthen side
slopes. Such earthen side slopes shall not be in excess of 1 foot vertical for
each 3 feet horizontal.
   (E)   Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the subdivider, as determined
by the Area Plan Commission, shall be constructed at the full expense of the
subdivider without reimbursement from the town. The sharing of expense for the
construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the subdivider, as determined
by the Area Plan Commission, will be fixed by special agreement between the
town, the County Engineer, and the subdivider. Plans for all bridges shall be
reviewed and approved by the County Engineer.
   (F)   Design standards for all private streets. Private streets (which are
not intended to be dedicated to or accepted by the town for maintenance), which
have been authorized for use by zoning commitment or variance grant, shall
comply with the minimum pavement width standards set forth in §
152.021 and the minimum depth and materials standards set forth in division (C)
of this section.
Table 151.077: Minimum Design Standards for Streets
          All Uses     Commercial/Industrial Uses           Residential Uses
Parameter Thoroughfare Collector Commercial Industrial Use/ Collector Local
                                 Use/Local  Local
Table 151.077: Minimum Design Standards for Streets
            All Uses     Commercial/Industrial Uses      Residential Uses
Parameter   Thoroughfare Collector Commercial Industrial Collector Local
                                   Use/Local  Use/Local
Right-of-   80 feet      70 feet   50 feet    60 feet    70 feet   50 feet
way
Pavement    48 feet      34 feet   24 feet    28 feet    34 feet   24 feet
width
Median      No           No        No         No         No        No
Curb and    Yes          Yes       Yes        Yes        Yes       Yes
gutter
Back-to-
back of     52 feet      38 feet   28 feet    32 feet    38 feet   28 feet
curb
Depth and   (1)          (1)       (1)        (1)        (1)       (1)
materials
Sidewalks   Yes - 5 feet Yes -     Yes -      Yes -      Yes -     Yes -
                         5 feet    5 feet     5 feet     5 feet    5 feet
Maximum     (1)          6%        6%         6%         6%        6%
grade
Minimum     .5%          .5%       .5%        .5%        .5%       .5%
grade (3)
Curve       (1)          200 feet  200 feet   200 feet   200 feet  200 feet
radius
Length of   (1)          200 feet  200 feet   200 feet   150 feet  100 feet
tangent
Sight       (1)          240 feet  200 feet   200 feet   240 feet  200 feet
distance
Corner      (1)          40 feet   40 feet    40 feet    25 feet   25 feet
radius
Transition  NA           NA        70 feet /  70 feet /  NA        50 feet / 40
curve (2)                          60 feet    60 feet              feet
Cul-de-sac  NA           NA        140 feet / 140 feet / NA        100 feet /
(2)                                120 feet   120 feet             80 feet
(1)   Standards as required by Town Engineer or Indiana DOT Design Standards
(2)   Figures listed in terms of radius to right-of-way/back of curb
(3)   Minimum length of vertical curve - 100 feet, but not less than 20 feet
for each percent of algebraic difference in grade or as required by AASHTO
 
(Ord. 1223, § 3.3, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.078 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalk location. Sidewalks shall be located along each side of a
street within the dedicated, non-paved portion of the street right-of-way.
   (B)   Pedestrian/bike path alternative. Under circumstances considered
appropriate by the Area Plan Commission, an alternative pedestrian/bike path
may be proposed in lieu of sidewalks. Pedestrian/bike paths shall be a minimum
of 8 feet in width to a maximum of 18 feet in width and may be located in
easements reserved for that use outside of the street right-of-way. The
developer must build the path either in concrete or asphalt construction at the
time streets are built.
   (C)   Sidewalk and pedestrian/bike path standards.  
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the town
standards.
      (2)   Pedestrian/bike paths may be constructed of concrete, asphalt, or
other material approved by the Area Plan Commission and installed in compliance
with the requirements specified by the town.
   (D)   Pedestrian access easements. In order to facilitate pedestrian access
from streets to schools, parks, playgrounds, or other nearby streets, the Area
Plan Commission may require perpetual, unobstructed pedestrian access easements
at least 15 feet in width. These pedestrian access easements shall be indicated
on the secondary plat.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.4, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.079 MONUMENTATION.
   (A)   The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in the
subdivision as required by this chapter and as approved by an state registered
land surveyor to provide interior and exterior control as well as lot location
within the subdivision. The control is to be established so as to provide a
record of the registered land surveyor who is responsible tor the location of
the monumentation. All markers installed shall meet the spirit and intent of
this section while providing specific reference to the registration number of
the survey professional.
   (B)   (1)   Street monuments. The subdivider shall have set under the
supervision of a registered land surveyor appropriate permanent monuments at
all angle points and intersections of street centerlines providing horizontal
street control throughout the subdivision. Such permanent monuments shall be
set as soon as practical after the potential for damage by continued
construction activity has ended. The permanent monuments shall be presented
complete and correct in location at the time of subdivision acceptance.
      (2)   Subdivision boundary monuments. The subdivider shall have set under
the supervision of a registered land surveyor appropriate permanent monuments
at all corners, angle points, or other horizontal control along the outside
boundary of the subdivision. These permanent monuments shall be set following
the final grading and utility installation for each development phase or
section of the subdivision. The permanent monuments shall be presented complete
and correct in location at the time of subdivision acceptance.
      (3)   Lot monuments. The subdivider shall have set under the supervision
of a registered land surveyor appropriate permanent monuments at all lot
corners. Such permanent monuments shall be set prior to the issuance of an
improvement location permit for any building, structure or improvement on the
lot. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for the improvement
location permit to maintain or replace, under the supervision of a state
registered land surveyor, the permanent monuments located at all lot corners
that may be damaged during construction.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.5, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.080 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General drainage requirements.
      (1)   The Area Plan Commission shall not approve any subdivision which
does not make adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or
basins.
      (2)   The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent
of any sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the rational
method, or other methods as approved by the Town Engineer, and a copy of the
design computations shall be submitted along with the construction plans.
      (4)   Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried
across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of greater than 400 feet
on local streets, 300 feet on collector streets, and as indicated by approved
calculations submitted to the Town Engineer based upon a 10-year design storm
and maximum spread as provided by the Town Engineer on arterial streets.
Additional inlets shall be required when encroachment of storm water into the
street disrupts traffic under the 10-year design storm.
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide a grading plan at a maximum scale of 1
inch equals 60 feet showing surface water drainage patterns on each lot and
street.
      (6)   The subdivider shall provide storm water conveyance facilities in
accordance with the town standards and the Storm Water Drainage Manual by
Christopher B. Burke, Highway Extension and Research Project for Indiana
Counties and Cities, School of Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette,
Indiana.
   (B)   Nature of storm water facilities.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   The subdivider may be required by the Area Plan Commission to
carry away, by pipe or open ditch, any spring or surface water that may exist,
either previously to or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage
facilities shall be located in the street right-of-way or in perpetual,
unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the town construction standards and specifications.
         (b)   Whenever a change of land use occurs, concentrated storm water
discharge to adjacent areas shall not be permitted unless the discharge is
conveyed through a suitable drainage feature to: an approved outlet within the
right-of-way; an existing drainage easement; a defined drainageway as approved
by the Town Engineer; or an open ditch which appears as a dashed or solid blue
line on the 7.5 Minute Series Topographic Quadrangle Map as published by the
United States Geological Survey. The drainage feature used to convey the site
discharge to the approved outlet shall be located in the right-of-way or
easement of appropriate width.
      (2)   Public storm sewers. With the exception of storm water conveyance
along nonresidential local streets within industrial districts, all storm water
conveyance within or parallel to and adjacent to the public right-of-way shall
be fully contained in storm sewers with an adequate and approved outlet.
Residential subdivisions containing lots of less than 15,000 square feet and
nonresidential subdivisions shall be provided with storm sewers to convey all
on-site drainage. However, on-site drainage swales with required conveyance
capacity of less than 5 cubic feet per second under the 10-year post-
development design storm may be allowed.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert, storm sewer,
open ditch, or other drainage facility shall, in each case, be large enough to
convey potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside
or outside the subdivision. The minimum conveyance provided for upstream, off-
site drainage areas shall be the runoff resulting from the 100-year storm over
the present state of upstream, off-site drainage areas. The conveyance provided
for upstream waters may be decreased to the extent that hydrograph routing and
detention on land controlled by the subdivider and dedicated to the town of as
a drainage easement allows for decreased capacity; provided, that the runoff
resulting from the 100-year storm is staged less than 1 foot above the stage on
the natural drainage way at the interface of the development with the upstream
drainage area. Culvert capacities for conveyance under interior local,
collector, and arterial streets without roadway overtopping shall be the runoff
resulting from the 25-year, 50-year, and 100-year storms respectively over off-
site areas in present state and on-site areas in post-development state.
Driveway culvert capacities shall be the capacities required for the street
classification to which the driveway connects. Greater culvert capacity shall
be required to protect the finished floor elevation of buildings from the post-
development 100-year storm when, in the opinion of the design engineer or the
Town Engineer, the finished floor elevation is threatened. It is recommended
that drainage of loading docks or other building features which are proposed at
an elevation lower than adjacent roadways be considered with respect to culvert
drainage impacts.
      (4)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The release rate of storm
water from development, redevelopment, and new construction shall not exceed
the storm water runoff rate from the land in its present state of development.
      (5)   Areas of poor drainage. Areas which are not in the floodplain, but
which contain soils subject to flooding, may be approved for subdivision by the
Area Plan Commission, provided that the subdivider fills the affected areas of
the subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place building sites and streets
2 feet above the ponding levels.
      (6)   Areas of high seasonal water tables. In areas characterized by
soils having a high seasonal water table as determined by the County Soil and
Water Conservation District, lots shall be limited to slab type construction
unless the Area Plan Commission determines that appropriate engineering
techniques will be applied to alleviate the subsurface problem.
   (C)   Dedication of drainage easements.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel, or stream, a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way shall be
provided granting or dedicating to the town/County Drainage Board that area in
an amount conforming substantially to the lines of the watercourse, and of such
width and construction as will be adequate for the purpose of accommodating
drainage and providing for the maintenance of the right-of-way.
         (b)   Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be
maintained as an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
maximum potential volume of flow.
         (c)   All storm water easements and drainage rights-of-way which are
to be dedicated to the town on the secondary plat shall use the following
language: “All storm water easements and drainage rights-of-way shown on this
plat are hereby dedicated to the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana.”
      (2)   Drainage easements.
         (a)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual, unobstructed easements for drainage facilities measuring at least 20
feet in width shall be provided across property outside of street right-of-way
lines. All drainage easements shall provide access to a public street. Drainage
easements shall extend from the street to a natural watercourse or to other
drainage facilities.
         (b)   The subdivider shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement to the town, land on both sides of existing watercourses
of a width to be determined by the Area Plan Commission and, in the case of
legal drains, by the County Drainage Board.
         (c)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights satisfactory to the
Area Plan Commission shall have been secured and indicated on the secondary
plat.
         (d)   Low-lying land along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be counted in
satisfying the minimum yard or lot area requirement of the town Zoning
Ordinance.
         (e)   All drainage easements shall be indicated on the secondary plat
and which are to be dedicated to the Town/County Drainage Board shall use the
following language: “All drainage easements shown on this plat are hereby
dedicated to the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana/St. Joseph County Drainage
Board.”
   (D)   Connection to town drainage utilities. Whenever practical, all
subdivisions within the town shall connect to drainage utilities provided by
the town. In those instances where the Area Plan Commission determines that
connection to town drainage utilities would pose an unusual or unnecessary
hardship at the time of development, the Area Plan Commission may make a
recommendation to the Town Council to approve a connection to another public or
semi-public drainage utility; provided, however, that all drainage facilities
are installed to town standards or alternative standards approved by the Town
Engineer, and provision is made in the design and layout of the drainage
facilities for connection to the town drainage utilities at such time as the
town extends drainage utility facilities to the subdivision.
   (E)   Maintenance responsibility for detention/retention facilities. The
subdivider shall be responsible for the maintenance of all detention and
retention facilities during construction. After construction, the owner of the
real estate shall be responsible for the maintenance of all detention and
retention facilities unless the Town/County Drainage Board formally accepts the
responsibility for the maintenance of the detention or retention facilities.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.6, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.081 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall take all actions necessary to extend or create a
water supply system capable of providing for domestic water use and fire
protection.
   (B)   All mainline water mains, whether public or private, shall be a
minimum of 8 inches in diameter; provided, however, a dead-end mainline water
main serving a permanent residential cul-de-sac street which is less than 400
feet in length and which serves no more than 12 equivalent dwelling units may
be 6 inches in diameter.
   (C)   Water capacity allocations shall be approved by the Public Works
Director.
   (D)   The location of all fire hydrants, water supply improvements, and
boundary lines of proposed districts indicating all improvements proposed to be
served, shall be shown on the primary plat, and the cost of installing all fire
hydrants and water supply improvements shall be included in the performance
bond furnished by the subdivider.
   (E)   Fire hydrants with isolation valves shall be provided along all water
mains at a spacing of every 350 feet to 450 feet. Actual spacing shall be
determined by the Town Engineer and Town Fire Chief based upon the land use
being served and the physical characteristics of the land and buildings served.
   (F)   All water easements which are to be dedicated to the town of on the
secondary plat shall use the following language: “All water easements shown on
this plat are hereby dedicated to the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana.”
   (G)   The subdivider shall provide water facilities in accordance with the
standards set forth in the town standards and the Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi
River Board of State Public Health and Environmental Managers, Recommended
Standards for Water Facilities. The design shall be approved by the appropriate
town, local, state, and federal agencies where required by those agencies.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.7, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.082 SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-
way or in perpetual, unobstructed easements. When sanitary sewer facilities are
located in easements, access easements to all manholes shall be provided.
Whenever sewer lines in private easements cross a public street or alley right-
of-way, a manhole shall be provided in the public right-of-way.
      (2)   A minimum horizontal distance of 10 feet shall be maintained
between parallel water lines and sewer lines. Perpendicular or angled crossings
of water and sewer lines shall generally be at a spacing of not less than 18
inches. If the minimum spacing cannot be met, special design details (such as
encasement in sleeves) may be approved by the Town Engineer.
      (3)   Sanitary sewer capacity allocations shall be approved by the Public
Works Director.
      (4)   All sanitary sewer easements which are to be dedicated to the town
on the secondary plat shall use the following language: “All sanitary sewer
easements shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the Town of New Carlisle,
Indiana.”
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide sanitary sewer facilities in
accordance with the town standards and the Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi River
Board of State Public Health and Environmental Managers, Recommended Standards
for Wastewater Facilities. The design shall be approved by the appropriate
town, local, state, and federal agencies where required by those agencies.
   (B)   Connection to town sanitary sewer utility. Sanitary sewer facilities
shall connect to a public sanitary sewer facility provided by the town.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.8, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.083 ELECTRIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall take all actions necessary to extend or create an
electrical distribution system capable of providing efficient voltage for the
development.
   (B)   The electrical distribution system shall be located within street or
alley rights-of-way or in perpetual unobstructed easements.
   (C)   Electric capacity allocations shall be approved by the Public Works
Director.
   (D)   The location of all electric poles, transformers, pedestals, and other
electric supply equipment shall be shown on the primary plat and the cost of
installing all electric supply improvements shall be included in the
performance bond furnished by the subdivider.
   (E)   The electric distribution system shall be designed and installed in
accordance to the current National Electrical Code.
   (F)   All electric easements, which are to be dedicated to the town on the
secondary plat, shall use the following language: “All electric easements shown
on this plat are to be dedicated to the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana.”
(Ord. 1223, § 3.9, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.084 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Underground utility location required.
      (1)   All new utility facilities, including but not limited to gas,
electric, telephone, and cable television shall be located underground
throughout the subdivision. Whenever practical, existing utility facilities
which are located above ground, except when existing in public street rights-
of-way, shall be removed and placed underground. All utility facilities
existing and proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the plans
submitted for primary plat approval.
      (2)   Underground service connections at the street property line shall
be provided to each platted lot by the subdivider. At the discretion of the
Area Plan Commission, the requirement for individual service connections to
each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single
ownership and intended to be developed for the same primary use.
   (B)   Utility easements.
      (1)   As a general rule, utility easements shall be located along all
rear lot lines and those side lot lines reasonably necessary to provide access
to the utilities for maintenance and repair. These combined utility easements
shall provide an aggregate easement width of 20 feet, unless an alternative
size is required by the Town Engineer or the applicable utility provider.
      (2)   Utility easements located along a street right-of-way shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet; provided, however, the first 5 feet of the utility
easement measured from the street right-of-way shall be reserved exclusively
for use as a town utility easement for sewer, water, and electric.
(Ord. 1223, § 3.10, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.085 PUBLIC SITES.
   (A)   All plats submitted under the provisions of this chapter may, subject
to Area Plan Commission approval, allocate adequate areas for park, school,
recreational, or other public and semi-public sites, wherever necessary in
conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and as required by the Area Plan
Commission. The location, shape, extent, orientation, use, and access to such
areas shall be appropriate for each location based upon existing and proposed
site conditions as well as the needs of the proposed subdivision. Such areas
shall be made available by 1 of the following methods:
      (1)   Dedication for public use;
      (2)   Reservation for use by the owners of land contained in the
subdivision by deed restriction or covenant which shall specify how and under
what circumstances the area or areas shall be used, developed, and maintained;
or
      (3)   Reservation for acquisition by a governmental unit or agency;
provided, however, the area shall become available for private use if both of
the following (a) and (b) apply:
         (a)   After the expiration of a period of 18 months from the date of
recording the secondary plat:
            1.   No governmental unit or agency proceeds with such acquisition
within the 18- month period; or
            2.   The appropriate governmental unit releases the area from
reservation.
         (b)    The secondary plat indicated the nature and extent of the
private use into which the area may be placed if the area is not used by a
governmental unit as specified.
   (B)   Any area so reserved on the secondary plat shall be clearly marked on
the plat as “Reserved for _________ Purposes.”
(Ord. 1223, § 3.11, passed 5-11-2010)
WAIVERS
§ 151.095 GENERALLY.
   The Area Plan Commission may grant waivers to the requirements, standards,
and specifications of this chapter as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1223, § 4.1, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.096 WAIVERS OF SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE REGULATIONS.
   Where the Area Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, or the purposes and intent of these regulations may be served to a
greater extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve waivers to the
standards and specifications set forth in this chapter so that substantial
justice may be done and the public interest served, provided that such waivers
shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 1223, § 4.2, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.097 WAIVER GUIDELINES.
   The Area Plan Commission shall not approve waivers unless it shall make
written findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case
that:
   (A)   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property;
   (B)   The conditions upon which the request for a waiver is based are unique
to the property for which a waiver is sought and are not applicable generally
to other property;
   (C)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out;
   (D)   The waiver will not contravene the provisions of the town Zoning
Ordinance or the Comprehensive Plan; and
   (E)   Where the waiver impacts on the design, construction, or maintenance
obligations of public facilities, that the appropriate public agency has
reviewed and approved the proposed development in writing to the Area Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 1223, § 4.3, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.098 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF WAIVER REQUESTS.
   At the time of filing a petition for primary plat approval for consideration
by the Area Plan Commission, petitioner shall submit a detailed written
statement of all waivers of this chapter sought which shall fully state the
grounds for the request and file proposed detailed written findings of fact in
support of such waiver request. Only those standards and specifications
specifically described in the request may be waived by the Area Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 1223, § 4.4, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.099 JURISDICTION OF WAIVERS.
   (A)   It is not within the powers or jurisdiction of the Board of Zoning
Appeals to grant waivers of any of the regulations in this chapter. Only the
Area Plan Commission shall have the authority to waive any of the regulations
in this chapter.
   (B)   It is not within the powers or jurisdiction of the Area Plan
Commission to grant a variance of development standards or to approve a special
exception use. Only the Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to
grant a variance of development standards. Only the Town Council shall have the
authority to approve a special exception use.
(Ord. 1223, § 4.5, passed 5-11-2010)
VACATION OF LAND IN A PLAT
§ 151.110 JURISDICTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3 et seq. and I.C. 36-7-4-711 et seq., the Plat
Committee has jurisdiction to vacate all or part of a plat pertaining to land
owned by the petitioner while the County Council has jurisdiction to vacate a
public way, public place or a platted easement.
(Ord. 1223, § 5.1, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 151.111 VACATION OF LAND IN A PLAT BY THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   In a case in which all of the owners of land in a plat are in
agreement regarding a proposed vacation, the owners may file a written
instrument to vacate all or part of that plat under I.C. 36-7-3-10 et seq. The
instrument may be approved under this section without notice or a hearing.
   (B)   In a case in which not all of the owners of land in a plat are in
agreement regarding a proposed vacation, the owners may file a written
instrument to vacate all or part of that plat under I.C. 36-7-4-711 et seq.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a plat vacation petition, the
Committee may approve or disapprove a petition for the vacation of all or part
of a plat. The Committee shall make written findings of fact that set forth the
reasons for the approval or disapproval of the petition. The findings of fact
shall be signed by the Chairman of the Committee. A copy of the findings of
fact shall be retained as a part of the permanent record of the determination.
(Ord. 1223, § 5.2, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 151.112 NOTICE OF PLAT COMMITTEE ACTION.
   Within 5 days after the Committee’s action on the vacation request, the
Secretary of the Committee shall provide all interested parties with a copy of
the findings of fact and decision of the Committee, and notify them in writing
of their right to appeal the Committee’s decision to the Commission. Appeals
shall be in writing, shall indicate the desire to have the subdivision replat
reviewed by the Commission, shall state the reason for the appeal and shall be
filed within 5 days of the date of the notice by the Secretary.
(Ord. 1223, § 5.3, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 151.113 APPEALS.
   The approval, disapproval, or imposition of a condition on the approval of
the vacation of all or part of a plat is a final decision of the Commission.
The petitioner or an aggrieved party may seek review of the decision of the
Commission as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. 1223, § 5.4, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 12-28-2011)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.125 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS.
   The language of this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the
following regulations:
   (A)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, limited liability company, corporation or other legal
entity, as well as an individual.
   (B)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular, in each case,
if the context so requires.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended,”
“designed,” “constructed,” “altered,” or “arranged” to be used or occupied.
   (E)   Where a regulation involves 2 or more items, conditions, provisions or
events connected by the conjunction “and,” “or,” or “either ... or,” the
conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events may apply singly or in any combination.
      (3)   “Either ... or” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
(Ord. 1223, Art. 6, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 151.126 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms or words used in the text of this chapter shall have the
following meanings, unless a contrary meaning is required by the context of a
particular sentence or phrase, or specifically prescribed in a particular
sentence or phrase.
   ACCESS. The way in which vehicles ingress and egress a lot or subdivision
from a street fronting along the lot or subdivision.
   ACCESS DRIVE. The area within the right-of-way between the pavement edge or
curb and the right-of-way line to provide ingress and egress to and from a lot
or subdivision.
   ALLEY, PRIVATE. A private right-of-way for public use as a secondary means
of public access to a lot otherwise abutting upon a public street or private
street and not intended for traffic other than public services and circulation
to and from the lot.
   ALLEY, PUBLIC. Any public right-of-way which has been dedicated or deeded to
and accepted by the public for public use as a secondary means of public
access, to a lot otherwise abutting upon a public street and not intended for
traffic other than public services and circulation to and from the lot.
   APPROPRIATE AGENCIES.  Those agencies designated by ordinance or the staff
to review subdivisions and may include, but not limited to the following:
County Surveyor, Town Engineer, State and County Health Departments, State
Department of Natural Resources, State Office of Aviation, Indiana Department
of Environmental Management (IDEM), Indiana Department of Transportation
(INDOT), and Army Corps of Engineers.
   AREA BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals having
jurisdiction over all real property with the town.
   AREA PLAN COMMISSION. The St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission.
   ASSESSOR’S OFFICE. The St. Joseph County Assessor’s office.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, or municipal
boundary lines.
   BLOCK FACE. The frontage of a block, which may contain 1 or more lots, along
1 side of a public street or private street between intersections.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
 
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to any front lot line, side lot line, or rear
lot line which passes through the nearest point of any building or structure.
   BUILDING LINE, FRONT. A line parallel to any front lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any side lot line.
   BUILDING LINE, SIDE. A line parallel to any side lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any front lot line or rear lot line.
   BUILDING LINE, REAR. A line parallel to any rear lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any side lot line.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL. The certificate block signed by the President of
the Area Plan Commission or the Chairperson of the Plat Committee and attested
to by the Secretary of the Area Plan Commission or Plat Committee, as
appropriate.
   COMMISSION’S SEAL. The official seal of the Area Plan Commission.
   CONCEPT PLAN. An informal site plan of a proposed subdivision, project,
Planned Unit Development or other development intended to convey the scope,
content, and nature of a proposed development, but lacking sufficient detail to
determine compliance with chapter requirements.
   CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW. A cursory review of a concept plan or sketch plan for a
proposed subdivision, project, Planned Unit Development, or other development
in which staff provides initial review comments to a prospective petitioner on
the design and layout of a proposed subdivision, project, Planned Unit
Development, or other development.
   CONDOMINIUM. Any project regulated by I.C. 32-25.
   CORRECTIVE PLAT. A plat for the purpose of correcting minor errors in a
recorded subdivision.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County.
   COUNTY. St. Joseph County, Indiana.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The St. Joseph County Engineer.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of St. Joseph County or his or her
designee.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT. The St. Joseph County Highway Department.
   COUNTY SURVEYOR. The St. Joseph County Surveyor.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.
   DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES. The State Department of Natural Resources.
   DISTRICT. Any zoning district applicable to a section of the territory
within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A section of the territory within the jurisdiction of this
chapter for which uniform regulations over the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings, structures or land
(including but not limited to: permitted uses; height; area; size; and
intensity of use of buildings, structures, land, and open spaces about
buildings or structures), are established by this chapter.
   DRAINAGE BOARD. The Drainage Board for the Town of New Carlisle.
   DRAINAGE POND. An artificially created body of water which is required in
connection with a storm water management system.
   DRIVE, INTERIOR ACCESS. A way for internal vehicular movement in and around
an individual lot or integrated center.
   DRIVEWAY. Access for vehicular egress/ingress between the right-of-way of a
public street or private street and the minimum required setback line on a lot.
   DRIVEWAY, INTERIOR ACCESS. A way for vehicular egress/ingress between the
minimum required setback lines of separate lots or between lots within the
boundaries of an integrated center.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
 
   DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A building consisting of 3 or more dwelling units,
including condominiums, with varying arrangements of entrances and party walls.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A building containing 1 dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, 2 FAMILY. A building consisting of 2 dwelling units which may be
either attached side by side or 1 above the other, and each dwelling unit
having a separate or combined entrance.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms arranged as a single housekeeping unit with
separate living, sleeping, sanitary, and cooking facilities physically
separated from any other dwelling unit in the same structure.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to the general public and/or public
utility or utilities, or other individual or individuals for the use of land
for a specifically stated purpose or purposes.
   FEASIBILITY STUDY. A written report prepared by a registered engineer or
registered land surveyor pertaining to the suitability of the site for various
types of water and sewer systems; for storm drainage retention/detention or
disbursal; and the sub-soil conditions for various methods of street
construction.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY. The administrative office of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway fringe districts.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the regulatory flood plus 2 feet at
any given location in the special flood hazard area.
   FLOOD, REGULATORY. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure which is
acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any
location is as defined in the floodplain regulations section of the St. Joseph
County Zoning Ordinance. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FRONTAGE. The line of contact of an abutting property with the street right-
of-way along a front lot line which allows unobstructed, direct access to the
lot.
   FRONTAGE STREET or FRONTAGE ROAD. See STREET, FRONTAGE.
   I.A.C. Indiana Administrative Code.
   I.C.  Indiana Code.
   IMPROVED PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those streets classified by the Town Engineer
as bituminous concrete, cement concrete, or brick, and which have been
dedicated and accepted into the town, county, or state (as applicable) street
system.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any man-made, immovable item which becomes part of, placed
upon, or is affixed to real estate.
   INTEGRATED CENTER. An area of development (commercial/town center,
industrial, or any combination of commercial/town center, industrial and
residential uses) of 1 or more lots or out lots, comprised of:
      (1)   Two or more individual, non-related and separately operated uses in
1 building sharing common site facilities;
      (2)   One or more buildings containing non-related and separately
operated uses occupying a common site, which utilizes 1 or a combination of
common site facilities, such as driveways, parking areas, loading areas,
interior access drives, maintenance and similar common services; or
      (3)   One or more buildings containing non-related and separately
operated uses occupying individual sites, which are interrelated by the
utilization of 1 or a combination of common facilities, such as driveways,
internal public street, or private street network, developed in accordance with
an approved master plan or preliminary plan of a subdivision, parking areas,
loading areas, maintenance or other services.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. An integrated center zoned for and primarily used by
industrial businesses. See INTEGRATED CENTER.
   INTERESTED PARTIES.
      (1)   For major subdivisions:
         (a)   The owners of property located within 300 feet of the proposed
major subdivision;
         (b)   The staff of the Area Plan Commission; and
         (c)   The subdivider.
      (2)   For minor subdivisions and subdivision replats:
         (a)   The staff of the Area Plan Commission; and
         (b)   The subdivider.
      (3)   For corrective plats:
         (a)   The staff of the Area Plan Commission; and
         (b)   The owners of all included lots for Type II and III corrective
plats.
   LOT. The portion of a subdivision which is proposed to be recorded in the
office of the St. Joseph County Recorder as a LOT OF RECORD.
   LOT AREA. The total area of a lot bounded on all sides by any front lot
line, rear lot line, and side lot line; provided, however, LOT AREA shall not
include: any area lying within the right-of-way of any public street or private
street or easement for surface access into the subject lot or adjoining lots;
or land reserved for drainage pond, wetland, or lands subject to periodic
flooding. No part of the minimum LOT AREA required under the applicable
district, commitment or variance grant may be satisfied by land that is under
water.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/IMAGES/0-0-0-40.jpg]
 
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting 2 or more streets at their intersections, or
upon 2 parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance from the midpoint of the front lot line to the
midpoint of the rear lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
      (1)   A lot abutting 2 parallel streets, or abutting 2 streets which do
not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
      (2)   A lot, other than a corner lot, which fronts on 2 streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot which is not a corner lot or a double frontage lot.
   LOT LINE. The line of separation of a lot from any abutting street or
adjoining lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from any abutting street or
limited access highway.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line, or in the case of a triangularly shaped lot, a line 10 feet in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line. However, in the case of a corner lot, any lot line which intersects with
a front lot line shall not be considered a REAR LOT LINE. In the case of a
double frontage lot or a triple frontage lot, lot lines along a non-access
easement shall be treated as a side or REAR LOT LINE, as applicable.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not designated as a front lot line or rear lot
line. In the case of a double frontage lot or a triple frontage lot, lot lines
along a non-access easement shall be treated as a side or rear lot line, as
applicable.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.jpg]         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/IMAGES/0-0-0-44.jpg]
 
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a final plat recorded in the office of
the Recorder of St. Joseph County, Indiana, or for which a deed has been so
recorded prior to May 6, 1958.
   LOT WIDTH. The frill width of a lot measured along the minimum front yard
and minimum building setback line required by this chapter.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor of buildings elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of 2 openings, in addition to doorways and windows,
having a total area of 1 square foot for every 2 square feet of area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
grade; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable for the parking of vehicles
and building access.
   MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC. An electric distribution system which is operated or
owned by a governmental unit, or under the jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility
Regulatory Commission.
   NON-ACCESS EASEMENT. A public easement along a public right-of-way across
which access to the property is not permitted.
   OFF-STREET. An area, typically set aside for parking or loading, which is
located on private property and does not occur in the right-of-way of any
public street or private street.
   ON-STREET. An area, typically set aside for parking or loading, which is
located within the right-of-way of any public street or private street.
   OPEN SPACE. A lot, a portion of a lot or common area set aside as a
playground, plaza, park, parkway, greenbelt, residential bufferyard, or other
landscape area and maintained free from buildings or structures, except for
those structures which are directly related to and essential to the use of the
open space for recreational purposes, including but not limited to swimming
pools, play equipment for youngsters, game courts, and picnic tables. In the
case of individual residential lots, OPEN SPACE shall be an area landscaped
with grass, trees, shrubbery, or other suitable vegetative ground cover and
maintained free from buildings or structures.
   OUT LOT. A nonbuildable lot.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
this chapter.
   PERFORMANCE BOND/PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any bond or other guarantee which
may be accepted in lieu of a requirement that certain improvements be made
before the Plat Committee gives secondary approval to the subdivision,
including by way of illustration, but not limited to: tax performance bonds,
escrow agreements, deposit agreements, and other similar collateral or surety
agreements approved as valid and enforceable by the town.
   PLAT COMMITTEE. A committee appointed by the Area Plan Commission to hold
hearings on and approve subdivisions on behalf of the Area Plan Commission in
conformance with I.C. 36-7-4-701 et seq.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewage disposal system which is operated or owned by a
governmental unit (but not including a storm sewer installed for the purpose of
carrying surface water runoff or subsoil drainage), or under the jurisdiction
of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A firm, corporation, municipal department, or board duly
authorized to furnish, or furnishing under regulation to the public,
electricity, gas, steam, communication (including cable television systems),
transportation, drainage, sewer, or water.
   PUBLIC WATER. A water supply system which is operated or owned by a
governmental unit, or under the jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory
Commission.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director for the Town of New
Carlisle.
   RECORDER’S OFFICE. The Recorder’s office of St. Joseph County.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer who is registered by the State of Indiana
as a professional engineer.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A surveyor who is registered by the State of
Indiana as a professional land surveyor.
   REPLAT. The process of allowing for an adjustment of a lot line or lines,
and easements, as shown on a recorded subdivision which:
      (1)   Does not affect any street layout, whether existing or proposed;
      (2)   Does not increase the total number of lots within the area proposed
to be replatted;
      (3)   Does not change or modify the approved drainage system or plan;
      (4)   Does not change or modify the approved water supply system or plan;
and
      (5)   Does not change or modify the approved sewage disposal system or
plan.
   RESERVE STRIP. An area of land adjacent to a public right-of-way which is
retained in ownership by an individual for the purpose of denying access to the
adjacent land.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE. An arrangement of lots where a lot has frontage on 2
streets which are generally parallel, with access denied to the major arterial
street or major collector street.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated to public use and over which an
alley, street, highway, pedestrian walkway, or other public way may be built as
set forth in a written grant, declaration or conveyance that is recorded in the
office of the County Recorder.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, EXISTING. The total right-of-way width of a street as created
or expanded by the most recent grant, declaration or conveyance that is
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PRIVATE. Specific and particularly described strip of
privately-held land devoted to and subject to use for general transportation
purposes or conveyance of utilities, whether or not in actual fact improved or
actually used for those purposes, as set forth in a written grant, declaration
or conveyance that is recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PROPOSED. The recommended right-of-way width for a street
based upon that street’s classification in the officially adopted thoroughfare
plan for the town as shown in the Comprehensive Plan.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. Specific and particularly described strip of land,
property, or interest therein dedicated to and accepted by the municipality,
county, or state to be devoted to and subject to use by the general public for
general transportation purposes or conveyance of utilities, whether or not in
actual fact improved or actually used for those purposes, as set forth in a
written grant, declaration or conveyance that is recorded in the office of the
County Recorder.
   ROAD. See STREET.
   ROAD, TEMPORARY ACCESS. A road which is normally not built to town
standards, but shall be constructed of material capable of supporting heavy
emergency vehicles under any weather conditions.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The triangular-shaped portion of land established at the
intersection of rights-of-way extended (or the intersection of a right-of-way
and a private drive), in which no structure or landscaping material may be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to limit or
obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
Area comprising the SIGHT TRIANGLE shall be dedicated as public right-of-way.
   SOIL INVESTIGATOR. An individual acceptable to both the Indiana State
Department of Health and the County Health Department as a person qualified to
analyze soils as to their suitability for the installation of basements.
   STAFF. Includes the Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission; the
Building Commissioner for the town; the Zoning Administrator for the town; any
employee of the Area Plan Commission; any attorney, agent, or designee of the
Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission; any attorney, agent, or
designee of the Building Commissioner for the town; any attorney, agent, or
designee of the Zoning Administrator; or any other employee of the town related
to the review, recommendation, or approval process for development.
   STANDARDS. A specific and detailed listing of materials and construction
methods for subdivision improvements and standards of construction and design,
as adopted by the town.
   STREET. Any public right-of-way or private right-of-way, with the exception
of alleys, essentially open to the sky and open and dedicated to the general
public for the purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to
abutting property, whether referred to as a street, lane, road, drive,
expressway, arterial, thoroughfare, highway, or any other term commonly applied
to a right-of-way for those purposes. A STREET may be comprised of pavement,
shoulders, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, parking spaces, and similar features.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. Any street which provides for through traffic movements
from local streets to thoroughfares and between areas within the town.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. Any local street, typically a local street, with a
single point of ingress and egress and with a turn-around at the end. For the
purposes of this chapter, a cul-de-sac also means any number of interconnected
local streets that share only 1 common point of access to a dedicated public
street and such dedicated public street provides 2 directions of ingress and
egress.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
 
   STREET, FRONTAGE. A local or collector street which is generally parallel to
and separated from a thoroughfare street by a non-access easement, and which
has limited access points to the thoroughfare street in order to provide safe
and convenient access to abutting properties without each property having
direct access to the thoroughfare street.
   STREET, LOCAL. Any street primarily designed and intended to carry low
volumes of vehicular traffic movement at low speeds, provide direct access to
residential, commercial, industrial, or other abutting real estate, and may
include the principal entrance street of a development or which provides
interior circulation within a subdivision and provides direct access to
abutting real estate.
   STREET, LOOP. A local street that has its only ingress and egress at 2
points on the same street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.jpg]
 
   STREET, PRIVATE. A privately held right-of-way, with the exception of
alleys, essentially open to the sky and open to the general public for the
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to abutting
property, whether referred to as a street, easement, road, expressway,
arterial, thoroughfare, highway, or any other term commonly applied to a right-
of-way for those purposes. A PRIVATE STREET may be comprised of pavement,
shoulders, curbs, sidewalks, parking spaces, and similar features.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A publicly dedicated, accepted, and maintained right-of-way,
with the exception of alleys, which has been improved to town standards and is
essentially open to the sky and open to the general public for the purposes of
vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to abutting property, whether
referred to as a street, lane, road, drive, expressway, arterial, thoroughfare,
highway, or any other term commonly applied to a public right-of-way for those
purposes. A PUBLIC STREET may be comprised of pavement, shoulders, gutters,
curbs, sidewalks, parking spaces, and similar features.
   STREET, STUB. A street which terminates at the subdivision boundary and
which is intended to be continued into the adjoining property when that
property is subdivided.
   STREET, THOROUGHFARE. Any U.S. highway, state highway, or county highway
which passes through the corporate limits of the town.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owner or the authorized agent for the owner of a
subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into 2 or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, plats, or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions, including resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the
division or development of land opened for residential and nonresidential uses,
whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease, map,
plat, or other recorded instrument. The following kinds of division of existing
parcels of land are exempt:
      (1)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts by adjoining
landowners to correct errors in an existing legal description, provided that no
additional building sites other than for accessory building s are created by
the division;
      (2)   A division of land for the acquisition of street or utility right-
of-way or easement;
      (3)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts between
adjoining land owners, provided that no additional development sites other than
for accessory buildings are created by the division;
      (4)   A division of land into cemetery plots for the purpose of burial;
and
      (5)   A division of a lot of record, which is or may be legally developed
with a 2 family dwelling or a multifamily dwelling, into sub-lots for the
purpose of transfer of ownership of the individual dwelling units and their
associated portion of the lot of record, provided that no additional
development sites are created by the division and that no sub-lots are created
which do not contain a dwelling unit.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any of the following:
      (1)   A subdivision of a tract of land into 4 or more parcels or lots,
including any remainder of the original tract, for single family or 2 family
dwelling purposes;
      (2)   Any subdivision which involves the creation of new streets,
extension of water lines or sewer lines, or the creation of public
improvements.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of a tract of land into less than 4
parcels or lots, including any remainder of the original tract, which does not
involve the creation of new streets, extension of water lines or sewer lines,
or the creation of public improvements.
   SUB-LOTS. Portions of a lot of record created in connection with the
transfer of ownership of individual dwelling units in a 2 family or multifamily
dwelling.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The portion of the Town of New Carlisle Comprehensive
Plan, or other officially adopted plan of the Town of New Carlisle, which sets
forth recommendations for major street alignments and street classifications.
   TOWN. The Town of New Carlisle, Indiana.
   TOWN ENGINEER. The Engineer for the town as appointed by the Town Council.
   URBAN DRAIN. A drain which when constructed or reconstructed has or will
have the hydraulic capacity to provide adequate drainage for land within a
watershed which is being converted from rural land to urban land, as specified
in I.C 36-9-27-67 through 36-9-27-69.
   WAIVER/WAIVED. Permission granted in connection with the approval of a
primary plat for a subdivision to allow a deviation from the standards or
requirements of this chapter.
   WALKWAY. A defined pedestrian way, typically improved with concrete or
asphalt, which provides for pedestrian movement on private property. A WALKWAY
may or may not be located in a pedestrian easement.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
public water supply which has been designated a WELLFIELD PROTECTION AREA by
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management or the County Health
Officer.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance of the Town of New Carlisle, Indiana,
codified in Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1223, Art. 6, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE BOND FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
   This Performance Bond (the “Bond”), is hereby presented by
                                                 ,
(the “Principal”), and
                                                                , (the “Surety
Company”) to the Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County,
Indiana (the “Council”) this______________day of___________, ______, to induce
the President and Secretary of the Area Plan Commission to sign the Secondary
Plat of a subdivision to be known
as                                             (the “Subdivision”).
   WHEREAS, Principal has petitioned for and conditionally received Primary
Plat approval by the St. Joseph Area Plan Commission under Docket No.
_________________________ for the Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, the installation of improvements required by the St. Joseph County
Subdivision Control Ordinance (the “Subdivision Control Ordinance”) and the
installation of improvements required by the Board as a condition of approval
of the Secondary Plat have not been completed, constructed, and installed as
required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance and the Council; and
   WHEREAS, Surety Company has pledged surety for the actions of the Principal
related to the completion, construction and installation of the improvements
required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance and the Council; and
   WHEREAS, Surety Company and Principal agree that the covenants contained
herein shall (i) run with the land and (ii) jointly and severally, bind
themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns to
the Town of New Carlisle (the “Town”), and the Council, jointly and severally,
for the completion, construction and installation of the improvements required
by the Subdivision Control Ordinance and the Council.
   NOW, THEREFORE, Principal agrees to the following obligations for the
completion, construction and installation of the improvements, installations
and lot improvements related to the development of the Subdivision:
1.   Principal shall construct, install and complete the following required
improvements, installations, and lot improvements for the Subdivision in
compliance with all requirements, standards and specifications of the
Subdivision Control Ordinance and other applicable Ordinances of the town
within three years from the date on which the President and Secretary of the
Area Plan Commission sign and certify the Secondary Plat.
(Check all items covered by this Bond):
 road base course            road intermediate course
 road surface course         street signs
 curbs                       sidewalks
 sanitary sewer              water system
 storm drainage & retention  lot drainage
 erosion control             soil preservation
 survey monumentation        fencing
 debris and waste removal    grading and landscaping
 as-built drawings           electric system
 
2.   Principal shall also construct, install and complete the following
improvements as required by the Council within______________(___) years from
the date on which the President and Secretary of the Area Plan Commission sign
and certify the Secondary Plat:
      a.
_________________________________________________________________________;
      b.
_________________________________________________________________________;
      c.
_________________________________________________________________________.
   Upon receipt by the Surety Company of written notice from the Council
stating that the Principal has failed to complete, construct and install the
improvements, installations and lot improvements required by the Subdivision
Control Ordinance and the Council, the Surety Company shall, at the option and
direction of the town, promptly and at the Surety Company’s expense take one of
the following actions:
1.   Arrange for the Principal, with consent of the town, to perform and
complete the construction and installation of the improvements, installations
and lot improvements required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance and the
Council;
2.   Undertake to perform and complete the construction and installation of the
improvements, installations and lot improvements required by the Subdivision
Control Ordinance and the Council; or
3.   Make payment to the town in the amount to be incurred by the town to
complete the construction and installation of the improvements, installations
and lot improvements required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance and the
Council, and the amount of this Bond shall be credited for any payments made in
good faith by the Surety Company, provided that the Surety Company’s
obligations under this paragraph three shall not exceed
                                                 dollars, ($_____________), in
the aggregate.
   If Surety Company does not proceed as provided for above with reasonable
promptness, but in all events within 30 days, the Surety Company shall be
deemed to be in default on this Bond 15 days after receipt of an additional
written notice from the Council to the Surety Company demanding that the Surety
Company perform its obligations under this Council, and the town shall be
entitled to enforce any remedy available to the town.
   Upon compliance with the terms and provisions of this Bond and the execution
of a written Release of Performance Bond by the Council, this Bond shall become
null and void.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this instrument this
________________day of ________________, ____________.
___________________________________         ________________________________________
By:________________________________         By:
_____________________________________
   Signature                                 Signature
Printed:_____________________________      Printed:
_________________________________
Title:_______________________________      Title:
___________________________________
Notice Address:______________________         Notice Address:
__________________________
___________________________________         ________________________________________
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
Approved this_______________day of________________,__________.
By:________________________________   
Printed:_____________________________
Title:_______________________________
(Ord. 1223, Form A, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX B: IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                           
hereby establishes our Irrevocable Letter of Credit No._____in favor of the
Town of New Carlisle, at the request and for the account of
                                                           , for any sum or
sums not exceeding                                       dollars, ($_______),
available upon presentation by the Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle,
St. Joseph County, Indiana (the “Council”), or any employee acting under the
Council’s authority, of a letter signed by the Council enumerating any and all
improvements, installations, and lot improvements (the “Improvements”) not
completed as required by the Town of New Carlisle Subdivision Control Ordinance
and the Council for the subdivision known as
                                                                               
(the “Subdivision”), St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission Docket
No.                       .
   This Letter of Credit shall be applicable to the following Improvements
[Check all items covered by this Letter]:
 road base course                                    road intermediate course
 road surface course                                 street signs
 curbs                                               sidewalks
 sanitary sewer                                      water system
 storm drainage & retention                          lot drainage
 erosion control                                     soil preservation
 survey monumentation                                fencing
 debris and waste removal                            grading and landscaping
 as-built drawings                                   electric system
                                                                             
                                                                             
 
   The drafts drawn under this Letter of Credit must state “Drawn under Letter
of Credit No._______of                                         , dated
the_______day of ___________,________.” The amounts of the drafts must be noted
on the back of this Letter of Credit by
the                                     .
   This Letter of Credit is effective as of___________day of
the______________,________, and shall expire on the________ day
of_______________,_________, provided, however, such expiration date shall be
automatically extended for successive periods of one year, unless: (i) a
Release of Credit is received from the Council; or (ii)
                                       , by certified mail, return receipt
requested, notifies both the Council and
                                                    at least 90 days before the
current expiration date, that
                                                                has decided not
to extend this Letter of Credit beyond the current expiration date. In the
event of such notification by
                                                           , the credit
established by this Letter of Credit shall be available to the Council upon its
sight draft or demand for payment for 90 days after receipt of such notice by
the Council, as shown on the signed returned receipt.
   The credit established by this Letter of Credit and the obligation to pay
the same shall not be affected by the receivership, bankruptcy or insolvency of
                                                      or the attachment of his
or her property. Nor shall this credit and the obligation to pay the same be
affected by any security agreement between
                                                       and
                                                     .
   Whenever this Letter of Credit is drawn on under and in compliance with the
terms of this Letter of Credit,
                                                                        shall
pay the amount of the draft directly to the town or in accordance with the
instructions of the Council.
                                                                                                        
By:                                                               
      Signature
Printed:                                                          
Title:                                                             
Date:                                                              
(Ord. 1223, Form B, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX C: MAINTENANCE BOND FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
   This Maintenance Bond (the “Bond”), is hereby presented by
                                                  (the “Principal”),
and                                      , (the “Surety Company”) to the Town
Council of the Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County, Indiana (the “Council”)
this_____day of __________,_____, to induce the Council to release applicable
portions of performance bonds or letters of credit for the subdivision known as
                                                     (the “Subdivision”).
   WHEREAS, Principal has installed certain improvements, installations, and
lot improvements within the Subdivision, but the following improvements,
installations, and lot improvements have not been accepted for public
maintenance [Check all items covered by this Bond]:
 road base course                                       road intermediate course
 road surface course                                    street signs
 curbs                                                  sidewalks
 sanitary sewer                                         water system
 storm drainage & retention                             lot drainage
 erosion control                                        soil preservation
 survey monumentation                                   fencing
 debris and waste removal                               grading and landscaping
                            electric system                  
                                                                            ; and
 
   WHEREAS, Surety Company has pledged surety for the any maintenance actions
required of the Principal related to said improvements, installations, and lot
improvements; and
   WHEREAS, Surety Company and Principal jointly and severally, bind
themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns to
the Town of New Carlisle (the “town”) for the maintenance of the above-listed
improvements required by the Town of New Carlisle Subdivision Control Ordinance
(the “Subdivision Control Ordinance”) and the town, and agree to be held and
firmly bound unto the town.
   WHEREAS, Principal certifies that all improvements, installations, and lot
improvements within the subdivision have been completed in accordance with the
requirements, standards and specifications of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance, other applicable ordinances of the town, and the construction plans
for the subdivision as approved by the town.
   NOW, THEREFORE, Principal:
1.   Warrants the workmanship and materials used in the construction,
installation, and completion of said improvements, installations, and lot
improvements to be of good quality and constructed and completed in a
workmanlike manner in accordance with the requirements, standards and
specifications of the Subdivision Control Ordinance, other applicable
ordinances of the town, and the construction plans for said improvements,
installations, and lot improvements as approved by the Council; and
2.   Agrees to maintain said improvements, installations, and lot improvements,
at Principal’s own expense, for a period of 3 years after the date on which
said improvements, installations, and lot improvements are accepted for public
maintenance by the town, and shall make all repairs thereto which may become
necessary by reason of improper workmanship or materials. This maintenance
obligation shall not include any damage to said improvements, installations,
and lot improvements which results from forces or circumstances beyond the
control of the Principal or occasioned by the inadequacy of the standards,
specifications and requirements of the Subdivision Control Ordinance or other
applicable ordinances of the town.
   Upon receipt by the Surety Company of written notice from the Council
stating that the Principal has failed to maintain said improvements,
installations, and lot improvements as required by the Subdivision Control
Ordinance, the Council and this Bond, the Surety Company shall, at the option
and direction of the town, promptly and at the Surety Company’s expense take
one of the following actions:
1.   Arrange for the Principal, with consent of the Council, to maintain the
improvements, installations and lot improvements as required by the Subdivision
Control Ordinance, the Council and this Bond;
2.   Undertake to maintain the improvements, installations and lot improvements
as required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance, the Council and this Bond; or
3.   Make payment to the town in the amount to be incurred by the town to
maintain the improvements, installations and lot improvements as required by
the Subdivision Control Ordinance, the Council and this Bond, and the amount of
this Bond shall be credited for any payments made in good faith by the Surety
Company, provided that the Surety Company’s obligations under this paragraph
shall not to exceed                                      dollars, ($_______),
in the aggregate.
   If Surety Company does not proceed as provided for above with reasonable
promptness, but in all events within 30 days, the Surety Company shall be
deemed to be in default on this Bond 15 days after receipt of an additional
written notice from the Council to the Surety Company demanding that the Surety
Company perform its obligations under this Bond, and the town shall be entitled
to enforce any remedy available to the town.
   Upon compliance with the terms and provisions of this Bond and the execution
of a written Release of Maintenance Bond by the Council, the obligations
contained herein shall become null and void.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this instrument this
____________day
of _______________,________.
___________________________________         ________________________________________
By:________________________________         By:
_____________________________________
   Signature                                 Signature
Printed:_____________________________      Printed:
_________________________________
Title:_______________________________      Title:
___________________________________
Notice Address:______________________         Notice Address:
__________________________
___________________________________         ________________________________________
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
Approved this_______________day of________________,________.
By:________________________________   
Printed:_____________________________
Title:_______________________________
(Ord. 1223, Form C, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX D: RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE BOND
   This Release of Performance Bond (the “Release”) is hereby presented by the
Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County, Indiana (the
“Council”) to                           , (the “Principal”), and
                              , (the “Surety Company”) as of this______________
day of_____________,_________.
   WHEREAS, Principal and Surety Company have posted a Performance Bond for the
improvements, installations and lot improvements (the “Improvements”) required
by the Town of New Carlisle Subdivision Control Ordinance (the “Subdivision
Control Ordinance”), other applicable Ordinances of the Town of New Carlisle,
and the Council for the subdivision known as
                                                     (the “Subdivision”); and
   WHEREAS, the Town of New Carlisle (the “Town”) has approved a Completion
Affidavit indicating that all Improvements have been constructed and installed
in compliance with all requirements, standards and specifications of the
Subdivision Control Ordinance, other applicable Ordinances of the Town and the
Council [Check all items to be covered by this Release]:
 road base course                               road intermediate course
 road surface course                            street signs
 curbs                                          sidewalks
 sanitary sewer                                 water system
 storm drainage & retention                     lot drainage
 erosion control                                soil preservation
 survey monumentation                           fencing
 debris and waste removal                       grading and landscaping
 as-built drawings                              electric system
                                                                     ; and
 
   WHEREAS, the town has approved a Completion Affidavit indicating that town
has accepted the above indicated Improvements for maintenance, subject to the
provision of all applicable maintenance bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Performance Bond issued for the above indicated
Improvements is hereby released.
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
Approved this________ day of_________________,________.
By:______________________________________
Printed:___________________________________
Title:_____________________________________
(Ord. 1223, Form D, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX E: RELEASE OF IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
   This Release of Irrevocable Letter of Credit (the “Release”) is hereby
presented by the Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County,
Indiana (the “Council”) to                                    , (the
“Principal”), and                                   , (the “Surety Company”) as
of this______day of_________________,                 .
   WHEREAS, Principal and Surety Company have posted an Irrevocable Letter of
Credit, Letter of Credit No.________, in favor of the Town of New Carlisle (the
“town”) as surety for the improvements, installations and lot improvements (the
“Improvements”) required by the Town of New Carlisle Subdivision Control
Ordinance (the “Subdivision Control Ordinance”), other applicable Ordinances of
the town, and the Council for the subdivision known as
                                                           (the “Subdivision”);
and
   WHEREAS, the town has approved a Completion Affidavit from the responsible
design professional representing that all Improvements have been constructed
and installed in compliance with all requirements, standards and specifications
of the Subdivision Control Ordinance, other applicable ordinances of the town
and the Council [Check all items to be covered by this Release]:
 road base course                                       road intermediate course
 road surface course                                    street signs
 curbs                                                  sidewalks
 sanitary sewer                                         water system
 storm drainage & retention                             lot drainage
 erosion control                                        soil preservation
 survey monumentation                                   fencing
 debris and waste removal                               grading and landscaping
 as-built drawings                                      electric system
                                                                              ; and
 
   WHEREAS, the town has issued a Completion Affidavit indicating that the town
has accepted the above indicated Improvements for maintenance, subject to the
provision of all applicable maintenance bonds.
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Irrevocable Letter of Credit issued for the above
indicated Improvements is hereby released.
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
Approved this _________day of__________________, ________.
By: ____________________________________   
Printed:_________________________________
Title:___________________________________   
(Ord. 1223, Form E, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX F: RELEASE OF MAINTENANCE BOND
   This Release of Maintenance Bond (the “Release”) is hereby presented by the
Town Council of the Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County, Indiana (the
“Council”) to                           , (the “Principal”), and
                                   , (the “Surety Company”) as of this
_________day of____________,_______.
   WHEREAS, Principal and Surety Company have posted a Maintenance Bond for the
maintenance of improvements, installations and lot improvements (the
“Improvements”) required by the St. Joseph County Subdivision Control Ordinance
(the “Subdivision Control Ordinance”), other applicable Ordinances of Town of
New Carlisle (the “town”), and the Council for the subdivision known as
                                                        (the “Subdivision”);
and
   WHEREAS, the Bond is applicable to following Improvements [Check all items
to be covered by this Release]:
 road base course                                         road intermediate course
 road surface course                                      street signs
 curbs                                                    sidewalks
 sanitary sewer                                           water system
 storm drainage & retention                               lot drainage
 erosion control                                          soil preservation
 survey monumentation                                     fencing
 debris and waste removal                                 grading and landscaping
                             electric system                   
                                                                               ; and
 
   WHEREAS, the Improvements have been maintained at Principal’s own expense
for a period of 3 years after the date on which said Improvements were accepted
for public maintenance by the town.
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Maintenance Bond issued for the above indicated
Improvements is hereby released.
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
Approved this_______________day of________________,__________.
By:________________________________
Printed:_____________________________
Title:_______________________________
(Ord. 1223, Form F, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX G: LETTER OF COMPLIANCE
   The undersigned, being the Subdivider and Contractor responsible for the
construction of certain improvements, installations and lot improvements (the
“Improvements”) for the subdivision known as  (Name of Subdivision and Section
#, if applicable)  (the “Subdivision”), hereby state that the following
Improvements, to the best of their knowledge and belief, have been constructed
and installed in compliance with all requirements, standards and specifications
of the Town of New Carlisle Subdivision Control Ordinance, other applicable
Ordinances of the Town of New Carlisle, and the requirements of the Town
Council of the Town of New Carlisle (Check all items covered by this Letter of
Compliance):
 street base                                              electrical system
 curbs                                                    street binder
 storm drainage                                           sanitary sewer
 storm drainage                                           water system
 sidewalks                                                street signs
 lot drainage                                             monumentation
 erosion control                                          soil preservation
 debris and waste removal                                 fencing
 final grading and lawn preparation
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
 
   The undersigned intends that the statements made herein shall be construed
as a representation made for the purpose of inducing the Town of New Carlisle
to accept the Improvements for public maintenance and to release  (Name of
Subdivider) , from the obligations of the Performance Bond for Subdivision
Improvements applicable to the Improvements required for the Subdivision. The
undersigned expressly authorize the Town of New Carlisle and all other persons
to rely on such representations.
   NAME OF SUBDIVIDER                        NAME OF CONTRACTOR
Signature:___________________________         Signature:
___________________________
Printed:_____________________________      Printed:
_____________________________
Title:_______________________________      Title:
_______________________________
Date:_______________________________      Date:_______________________________
FOR TOWN USE ONLY
Inspections of the Improvements described above were conducted on a periodic
basis and at all critical points in the constructions process. All Improvements
were found to be in compliance with all requirements, standards and
specifications of the Subdivision Control Ordinance, other ordinances of the
Town of New Carlisle and the requirements of the Area Plan Commission.
   TOWN INSPECTOR   
Signature:___________________________
Printed:_____________________________
Title:_______________________________
Date:_______________________________
(Ord. 1223, Form G, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX H: COMPLETION LETTER
   This Completion Letter (the “Letter”) is hereby presented by the Town of New
Carlisle, St. Joseph County, Indiana (the “town”) to
                                            , (the “Principal”) this
_________day of____________,_______.
   WHEREAS, the town has received a Letter of Compliance from the Subdivider
and responsible contractor representing that the following improvements,
installations and lot improvements (the “Improvements”) have been constructed
and installed in the subdivision known as _______________________________(the
“Subdivision”) in compliance with all requirements, standards and
specifications of the Town of New Carlisle Subdivision Control Ordinance (the
“Subdivision Control Ordinance”) and other applicable Ordinances of the Town
(Check all items to be covered by this Letter):
 street base                                              street binder
 curbs                                                    sanitary sewer
 storm drainage                                           water system
 street topcoat                                           street signs
 sidewalks                                                monumentation
 lot drainage                                             soil preservation
 erosion control                                          fencing
 debris and waste removal                                 final grading and lawn preparation
                             electric system                   
                                                                               ; and
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Town accepts the Improvements for maintenance subject to
the posting of a Maintenance Bond for the Improvements by the Principal as
required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
                                             TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
                                          By:______________________________
                                          Printed:_____________________________
                                          Title:_______________________________
cc:   Executive Director, Area Plan Commission, St. Joseph County, Indiana
(Ord. 1223, Form H, passed 5-11-2010)
APPENDIX I: FINDINGS OF FACT FOR VACATION OF LAND IN A PLAT
Address:__________________________________      File:
_________________________________
   FINDINGS OF FACT
   Petition for Vacation of Land in a Plat
The Area Plan Commission may approve / disapprove a petition for the vacation
of all or part of a plat upon finding that:
1.   The conditions in the platted area have / have not changed so as to defeat
the original purpose of the plat because:
2.   It is / is not in the public interest to vacate all or part of the plat
because:
3.   The value of that part of the land in the plat not owned by the Petitioner
will / will not be diminished by vacation because:
   AREA PLAN COMMISSION
The VACATION is hereby Approved / Disapproved this _________day
of____________,20_____.
___________________________________
Printed:____________________________
President, Area Plan Commission
(Ord. 1223, Form I, passed 5-11-2010)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
Provisions of Common Applicability
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Statutory authority
   
152.003   Purpose
   
152.004   Findings for adoption of this chapter
   
152.005   Effective date
   
152.006   Prior or conflicting ordinances
   
152.007   Separability
   
152.008   Eminent domain or use
   
152.009   Interpretation of this chapter/conflict with other ordinances
   
152.010   Jurisdiction
   
152.011   Subdivision of land
   
152.012   Scope and application
   
152.013   Private provisions
   
152.014   Determination of land uses not listed in this chapter
   
152.015   Saving provision for pending enforcement actions
   
152.016   Transition rules
   
152.017   Amendments to this chapter
   
152.018   Compliance required for use and development of real property
   
152.019   Exemptions for transportation, communication, and utility lines
   
152.020   Clear sight area requirements
   
152.021   Requirements for all private streets and private alleys
   
152.022   Exemption for anti-terrorism devices and portable towers
Zoning Districts and Zone Maps
   
152.035   Establishment of districts
   
152.036   Order of districts
   
152.037   Official Zone Map
   
152.038   Identification of the Official Zone Map
   
152.039   Official Zone Map changes
   
152.040   Retention and preservation of record
   
152.041   Interpretation of the Official Zone Map
   
152.042   Zoning of newly annexed land to the town
Nonconforming Lots, Uses, Buildings, Structures, or Signs
   
152.055   Intent
   
152.056   Incompatibility of legally established nonconforming uses
   
152.057   Avoidance of undue hardship
   
152.058   Legally established nonconforming lots
   
152.059   Legally established nonconforming buildings or structures (excluding
signs)
   
152.060   Legally established nonconforming uses of land
   
152.061   Discontinuation of legally established nonconforming uses of land
   
152.062   Legally established nonconforming uses within legally established
nonconforming buildings or structures
   
152.063   Repairs and maintenance of legally established nonconforming
buildings or structures (excluding signs)
   
152.064   Legally established nonconforming signs
   
152.065   Determination of cost of construction
   
152.066   Reconstruction, remodeling or enlargement of a legally established
nonconforming single family dwelling or 2 family dwelling
   
152.067   Agricultural nonconforming use
Residential Districts
   
152.080   R1 - Single Family District
   
152.081   R2 - Single Family and 2 Family District
   
152.082   MF - Multifamily District
   
152.083   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.084   Temporary uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.085   Home occupations
   
152.086   Performance standards
   
152.087   Zoning violations in Residential Districts
   
152.088   Additional development standards
   
152.089   Requirements for all private streets and private alleys
   
152.090   Neighborhood recycling collection points
Commercial/Town Center Districts
   
152.115   OB - Office Buffer District
   
152.116   LB - Local Business District
   
152.117   CB - Community Business District
   
152.118   TC - Town Center District
   
152.119   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.120   Temporary uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.121   Home occupations
   
152.122   Performance standards
   
152.123   Zoning violations in Commercial/Town Center Districts
   
152.124   Additional development standards
   
152.125   Requirements for all private streets and private alleys
Industrial District
   
152.140   LI - Light Industrial District
   
152.141   GI - General Industrial District
   
152.142   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.143   Temporary uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.144   Performance standards
   
152.145   Zoning violations in Industrial Districts
   
152.146   Additional development standards
   
152.147   Requirements for all private streets and private alleys
Planned Unit Development District
   
152.165   Intent
   
152.166   Permitted uses, development standards, and minimum requirements
   
152.167   Procedure for approval of a Planned Unit Development
   
152.168   Modification of preliminary plan or secondary approval
   
152.169   Secondary plat approval
   
152.170   Maintenance of common open space
   
152.171   Appeals from Executive Director’s decisions
Landscape Regulations
   
152.185   Intent
   
152.186   General landscaping provisions
   
152.187   Landscaping of required perimeter yards and residential bufferyards
   
152.188   Foundation landscaping
   
152.189   Interior off-street parking area landscaping
   
152.190   Off-street parking area screening
   
152.191   Minimum plant material sizes at time of planting
   
152.192   Installation of landscaping
   
152.193   Maintenance of landscaping
   
152.194   Alternate landscape plan approval
Lighting Regulations
   
152.210   Intent
   
152.211   General requirements
   
152.212   Special regulations for sport and athletic field lights
   
152.213   Exempt lights
   
152.214   Temporary lights
   
152.215   Prohibited lights
Sign Regulations
   
152.230   Intent
   
152.231   Exempt signs
   
152.232   Prohibited signs
   
152.233   On-premises signs: R1, R2, and MF districts
   
152.234   On-premises signs: OB, LB, and CB Districts and all Industrial
Districts
   
152.235   On-premises signs: TC District
   
152.236   Off-premises signs
Off-Street Parking Regulations
   
152.250   Intent
   
152.251   Applicability
   
152.252   Existing parking areas
   
152.253   Location of parking areas
   
152.254   Design and construction of off-street parking areas
   
152.255   Minimum number of required off-street parking spaces
   
152.256   Required parking for the disabled
   
152.257   Bicycle racks
   
152.258   Required Off-Street Parking Table
Off-Street Loading Regulations
   
152.270   Intent
   
152.271   Loading for buildings, structures, or uses
   
152.272   Design and construction of loading areas
   
152.273   Location of off-street loading spaces
   
152.274   Use of required loading area
   
152.275   Surface of loading areas
   
152.276   Special regulations for gasoline service stations
   
152.277   Minimum number of off-street loading spaces
Special Regulations for Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
   
152.290   Intent and policy
   
152.291   Wireless telecommunications facilities requirements
   
152.292   Siting hierarchy of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
152.293   Development standards
   
152.294   Abandonment and removal of telecommunications towers, antenna arrays,
associated equipment, and buildings
   
152.295   Limitations on special exceptions
Special Regulations for Residential Facilities for the Mentally Ill
   
152.305   Locations
Special Regulations for Controlled Uses
   
152.330   Controlled uses generally
   
152.331   Additional development standards for controlled uses
   
152.332   Definitions for adult businesses
Special Regulations for Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
152.345   Intent
   
152.346   Wind energy conversion systems; generally
   
152.347   Small wind energy conversion systems; development standards
   
152.348   Wind energy facility; general
   
152.349   Wind energy facility; approval
   
152.350   Wind energy facility; abandonment, discontinuation, or
decommissioning of wind turbines and removal of wind energy facilities
Administration
   
152.365   Town Council
   
152.366   Area Plan Commission
   
152.367   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.368   Staff agencies
Development Review Procedures
   
152.385   Intent
   
152.386   Improvement location permits
   
152.387   Compliance with other laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations
   
152.388   Application form and plan requirements
   
152.389   Zoning ordinance amendment procedures
   
152.390   Variance and special exception procedures
   
152.391   Modification or termination of commitments
   
152.392   Combined hearing procedure
Enforcement
   
152.405   Authority
   
152.406   Alleged violations
   
152.407   Responsibility for violations
   
152.408   Inspection of property; right of entry
   
152.409   Cease and desist order
   
152.410   Violations
   
152.411   Remedies or penalties for violation
   
152.412   Fines
   
152.413   Additional remedies
Definitions
   
152.425   Interpretation of terms or words
   
152.426   Definitions
Fines
   
152.440   Intent
   
152.441   All Residential Districts
   
152.442   All Commercial/Town Center Districts and all Industrial Districts
   
152.443   All wireless telecommunications facilities
   
152.444   Payment of all fines prescribed by this subchapter for zoning
violations
   
152.445   Failures of person who receives a citation; enforcement
   
152.446   Violations in a Planned Unit Development (PUD) District
   
Appendix A:    Permitted Use Table
   
Appendix B:    Forms
   
B-1:   Area Plan Commission Commitments
   
B-2:   Area Plan Commission Modification of Commitments
   
B-3:   Board of Zoning Appeals Commitments
   
B-4:   Board of Zoning Appeals Modification of Commitments
   
B-5:   Consent Form
   
B-6:   Consent Form
PROVISIONS OF COMMON APPLICABILITY
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereinafter be known and cited as “Town of New Carlisle
Zoning Ordinance,” and hereinafter referred to as the “Ordinance” or “this
chapter.”
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.002 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in I.C.
36-7-4 et seq.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of
the Indiana Code and that section is later amended or superseded, this chapter
shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the section that
most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.003 PURPOSE.
   In adopting this chapter, the Town Council has given reasonable
consideration to, among other things: the Comprehensive Plan; current
conditions and the character of current structures and uses in each district;
the most desirable use for which the land in each district is adapted; the
conservation of property values throughout the town; and responsible
development and growth of the town, and hereby adopts this chapter for the
purpose of:
   (A)   Securing adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from
fire, flood, and other danger;
   (B)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in public ways;
   (C)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare;
   (D)   Guiding the future development of the town;
   (E)   Ensuring that residential areas provide healthful surroundings for
family life;
   (F)   Ensuring that the needs of business and industry be recognized in
future growth;
   (G)   Ensuring that growth be commensurate with and promotive of the
efficient and economical use of public funds; and
   (H)   Otherwise accomplishing the purposes of I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.004 FINDINGS FOR ADOPTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The Town Council, in adopting this chapter, finds that this chapter has paid
reasonable regard to:
   (A)   The general policies and patterns of development set out in the
Comprehensive Plan for the town;
   (B)   Current conditions and the character of current structures and uses in
each district;
   (C)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is adapted;
   (D)   The conservation of property values throughout the town; and
   (E)   The responsible development and growth of the town.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective at 12:01 a.m., on January 26, 2010.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.006 PRIOR OR CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The Zoning Ordinance for the Town of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County,
Indiana, as previously adopted by the Town Council as Chapter 10, Article 1 of
the 1992 Code, and all amendments thereto, are repealed as of the effective
date of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.007 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this chapter are
severable and, if any such section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase is
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction in a valid judgment or decree, the unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases of this chapter because the same would have been enacted
without the incorporation into this chapter of the unconstitutional or invalid
section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(g), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.008 EMINENT DOMAIN OR USE.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any rules, regulations, or orders issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to restrict or regulate or to
authorize any unit of government, legislative body, Plan Commission, or Board
of Zoning Appeals now or hereafter established, to restrict or regulate:
   (A)   United States of America.  The exercise of the power of eminent domain
by the United States of America or by any department or agency of the United
States of America, or the use of property owned or occupied by the United
States of America or any department or agency of the United States of America;
or
   (B)   State of Indiana. The exercise of the power of eminent domain by the
State of Indiana or by any agency of the State of Indiana, or the use of
property owned or occupied by the State of Indiana or any agency of the State
of Indiana.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(h), passed 1-26-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-1104
§ 152.009 INTERPRETATION OF THIS CHAPTER/CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and the general welfare of the public. In
the case of any conflict or inconsistency between 2 or more provisions of this
chapter (e.g., the restrictions set forth in an overlay district versus the
restrictions set forth in a primary district) or any other ordinance of the
town, the provision which imposes the greater or higher or more restrictive
standard of performance shall control.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(i), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.010 JURISDICTION.
   Upon both adoption of this chapter by the Town Council of the Town of New
Carlisle and the effective date of this chapter, the Area Plan Commission of
St. Joseph County shall be the duly authorized Plan Commission for the
incorporated areas of the town pursuant to the Area Planning Law of the Indiana
Code, and this chapter shall apply to all real property located within the
corporate boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(j), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.011 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   The subdivision of land may occur in any and all districts established by
this chapter. Whenever a subdivision occurs, the rules, regulations, and
procedures of the town Subdivision Regulations, or any subsequently adopted
replacement Subdivision Control Ordinance for the town shall apply.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(k), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.012 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   Except as expressly provided otherwise in this chapter:
   (A)   No person may use or occupy any land, building, structure, or
improvement or authorize or permit the use or occupancy of any land, building,
structure, or improvement under his or her control except in accordance with
the applicable provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   No land, building, structure, or improvement shall be used and no
building, structure, or improvement shall be erected, reconstructed, or
structurally altered, which is arranged, intended, or designed to be used for
any purpose other than a use which is permitted in the district in which the
land, building, structure, or improvement is located; and
   (C)   No building, structure or improvement shall be placed, erected, moved
or structurally altered with respect to height, area, bulk, or setback except
in compliance with the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(l), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.013 PRIVATE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to nullify, abolish, or
repeal any easement, covenant or other private agreement or restriction.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(m), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.014 DETERMINATION OF LAND USES NOT LISTED IN THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   It is recognized that this chapter may require interpretation to
assign all possible uses to individual districts. Therefore, any use which is
not specifically set forth in this chapter shall be reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator for consistency with the intent set forth in each district and
for compatibility with use characteristics typical of uses permitted within
those districts. Based upon this review, the Zoning Administrator shall
determine the appropriate district for any use which is not specifically set
forth herein.
   (B)   In case of disagreement with the determination of the Zoning
Administrator in assigning a use to an appropriate district, any aggrieved
party may file an appeal with the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the
provisions of §
152.367.
   (C)   If either (C)(1) or (C)(2) is determined as follows, then that use
shall be deemed to require the PUD District and shall be considered to be a
permitted use only in a PUD District in which the use is specifically included
and described in the PUD District ordinance:
      (1)   Determined by the Zoning Administrator that a particular use is not
permitted in any residential, commercial/mixed use, industrial or other
district provided for in this chapter and no appeal of the Zoning
Administrator’s decision is filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to
the provisions of §
152.367; or
      (2)    Determined upon appeal that a particular use is not permitted in
any residential, commercial/mixed use, industrial, or other district provided
for in this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(n), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.015 SAVING PROVISION FOR PENDING ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   Except as shall be expressly provided for in this chapter, the adoption of
this chapter shall not:
   (A)   Nullify or make void any action pending under, or by virtue of, any
prior Zoning Ordinance or Subdivision Control Ordinance;
   (B)   Discontinue, nullify, void, abate, modify or alter any penalty
accruing or about to accrue under, or by virtue of, any prior Zoning Ordinance
or Subdivision Control Ordinance;
   (C)   Affect the liability of any person, firm, or corporation under, or by
virtue of, any prior Zoning Ordinance or Subdivision Control Ordinance;
   (D)   Waive any right of the town under any section or provision of any
prior Zoning Ordinance or Subdivision Control Ordinance; or
   (E)   Vacate or annul any rights obtained by any person, firm, or
corporation by lawful action of the town under, or by virtue of, any prior
Zoning Ordinance or Subdivision Control Ordinance.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(o), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.016 TRANSITION RULES.
   (A)   Pending permit applications (per I.C. 36-7-4-1109). 
      (1)   As used in this section, the term ZONING APPROVAL OR PERMIT shall
include the following: an improvement location permit; a building permit; a
certificate of occupancy; approval of site-specific development plan; approval
of a primary plat or secondary plat; approval of a conditional use, special
exception, or special use; or approval of a planned unit development.
      (2)   (a)   For any full and complete application for a zoning approval
or permit required by the prior existing Zoning Ordinance of the town and which
application is pending on the effective date of this chapter, the granting of
the zoning approval or permit, and the granting of any secondary, additional,
or related permits or approvals required from the town, with respect to the
general subject matter of the application of the permit, are governed for at
least 3 years after the date of application by the statutes, ordinances, rules,
development standards, and regulations in effect and applicable to the real
estate when the application is filed, even if: before the issuance of the
permit or while the permit approval process is pending; or before the issuance
of any secondary, additional, or related permits or approvals or while the
secondary, additional, or related permit or approval process is pending: the
statutes, ordinances, rules, development standards, or regulations governing
the granting of the permit or approval are changed by the General Assembly or
the Town Council.
         (b)   However, this division (A)(2) shall not apply if the development
or other activity to which the permit relates is not completed within 7 years
after the development or activity is commenced.
   (B)   Zone map amendments. Any application for zone map amendment which has
been filed with the Town Council and which application is full and complete
under the provisions of the prior existing Zoning Ordinance of the town shall
be allowed to continue to be processed to completion pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the prior existing Zoning Ordinance of the town; provided,
however:
      (1)   If the proposed use would no longer be permitted in the proposed
district as a result of changes to that district resulting from the adoption of
this chapter, such application shall be deemed amended to request the district
of this chapter in which the proposed use is first permitted; or
      (2)   If the proposed district would no longer be in existence as a
result of the adoption of this chapter, such application shall be deemed to be
amended to request the district of this chapter which is most comparable to
zoning classification requested in the application for zone map amendment.
   (C)   Special exception use, variance of development standards.  Any
application before the Board of Zoning Appeals (i.e., special exception use or
variance of development standards) which has been filed with Board of Zoning
Appeals of the town and which application is full and complete under the
provisions of the prior existing Zoning Ordinance of the town shall be allowed
to continue to be processed to completion pursuant to the terms and conditions
of the prior existing Zoning Ordinance of the town. However:
      (1)   If the application is no longer required by the terms of this
chapter, the application shall be considered dismissed for lack of
jurisdiction; or
      (2)   If the proposed use or development requires additional approvals
from the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
chapter (and which additional approvals from the Board of Zoning Appeals were
not required by the terms and conditions of the prior existing Zoning Ordinance
of the town), the application shall be deemed amended to include only those
additional approvals which are minimally required and within the jurisdiction
of the Board of Zoning Appeals to approve for the proposed use or site plan for
the development.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(p), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.017 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   In its continuing administration of the purposes set forth in §
152.003 above, the Town Council of the town may find it reasonable and
necessary to propose and adopt amendments to the text of this chapter or
determine changes to the zone maps incorporated into this chapter. All such
amendments shall be considered and adopted in compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-600
et seq., the provisions of this chapter, and any applicable Rules of Procedure
subsequently adopted by the Area Plan Commission or the Town Council governing
such procedures.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(q), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.018 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED FOR USE AND DEVELOPMENT OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be a
prerequisite for the use and development of real property within the town.
Failure to comply with the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
to be a civil zoning violation enforceable by the Zoning Administrator, as
provided for in I.C. 36-7-4 et seq., and §§
152.405 through
152.413 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(r), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.019 EXEMPTIONS FOR TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNICATION, AND UTILITY LINES.
   (A)   Service easements, including but not limited to those providing for:
roadways; railroad lines; pipelines; electric power lines, conduits or systems;
telephone lines, conduits or systems; cable television lines, conduits or
systems; water mains, lines valves or fire hydrants; sanitary sewer mains,
lines, laterals, manhole structures or lift stations; drainage or storm sewer
inlets, pipes or roof drains; and similar and comparable utility services and
facilities, shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Bus stations, park and ride facilities, railway terminals, gas storage
tanks, power stations, utility substations, water treatment plants, pumping
stations, water towers, sewage treatment plants and other facilities which
generate, create, or process such transportation, communication, or utility
services, shall be subject to all use and development standards regulations of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(s), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.020 CLEAR SIGHT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except for the TC District, no building, structure or improvement,
including landscaping, shall be erected, placed, planted, or maintained so as
to interfere with a clear sight area located between the heights of 3 feet and
10 feet above the crown of a street, driveway or alley.
   (B)   A “clear sight area” shall be established for all streets, whether
public or private, in one of the following manners:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
 
      (1)   At the intersection of streets, clear sight areas are formed at
each corner by the street right-of-way lines and a line connecting points on
the right-of-way lines located 25 feet away from the intersection of the street
right-of-way lines. In the case of a round or corner-cut right-of-way, the
measurement shall be taken from the intersection of the right-of-way lines
extended; or
      (2)   At the intersection of a street with a driveway or alley, clear
sight area shall be formed by the intersection of the street right-of-way line
and the driveway surface edge or the right-of-way of the alley and a line
connecting points 10 feet from the intersection of the street right-of-way line
and the driveway surface edge or alley right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(t), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.021 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL PRIVATE STREETS AND PRIVATE ALLEYS.
   All private streets and private alleys, when specifically authorized for use
by the town through grant of a variance, development incentive, plat or
subdivision waiver, shall be developed to the following standards.
   (A)   Pavement width for private streets. Minimum pavement width for that
portion of a private street available for through traffic (i.e., exclusive of
parking spaces):
      (1)   Residential Districts:
         (a)   One-way traffic: 12 feet; and
         (b)   Two-way traffic: 24 feet.
      (2)   Commercial/Mixed Use Districts or Industrial Districts:
         (a)   One-way traffic: 18 feet; and
         (b)   Two-way traffic: 36 feet.
   (B)   Pavement width for private alleys. Minimum pavement width for that
portion of a private alley available for through traffic (i.e., exclusive of
parking spaces):
      (1)   Residential Districts: 12 feet; and
      (2)   Commercial/Mixed Use Districts or Industrial Districts: 16 feet.
   (C)   Depth and materials. Minimum pavement depth and materials for that
portion of a private street or private alley available for through traffic, as
noted above, shall be as required by the town for public streets or public
alleys. Curb sections shall be as required by the town for public streets or
public alleys.
   (D)   Emergency vehicles. The geometric design of private streets or private
alleys shall provide for the through movement or turnaround of emergency
vehicles. Turnaround design may include cul-de-sac, hammerhead, or other design
approved by the Town Board of Public Works.
   (E)   Maintenance/services. Prior to the issuance of an improvement location
permit or obtaining secondary plat approval, the developer or subdivider shall
file documentary assurances with the Town Council that all lots served by the
private streets or private alleys shall be provided with the following
services: regular trash pick-up; leaf pick-up; snow removal; daily mail
delivery service; roadway maintenance and repair, including but not limited to
driving surface, roadway subgrade, subsurface drainage, roadside drainage,
curbs, sidewalks, street lights, street name signs, traffic-control signs, and
traffic-control signals; and powers to enforce speed control and parking
regulations. Such services shall be provided in accordance with the
specifications approved by the Town Council, which shall include the
establishment of a maintenance fund or escrow account by the developer or
subdivider, which may be supplemented by regular or special assessments against
each lot owner, provided the assessments are at reasonable and non-
discriminatory rate of charge. Such documentary assurances shall be
incorporated into the applicable final plat that is recorded in the office of
the Recorder of St. Joseph County, or otherwise provided for through legally
binding perpetual agreements as approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(u), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.022 EXEMPTION FOR ANTI-TERRORISM DEVICES AND PORTABLE TOWERS.
   Sensors and special devices specifically designed to monitor air quality and
to alert governmental authorities of biological, chemical, or nuclear attack(s)
shall be allowed on any building or structure, including telecommunications
towers, subject to the final review of the Zoning Administrator. Integrated
portable tower systems, which are specifically designed to monitor air quality
and which may alert governmental authorities of biological, chemical, or
nuclear attack(s), may be permitted on an emergency basis, subject to the final
review of the Zoning Administrator with regard to location(s) and duration.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.01(v), passed 1-26-2010)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONE MAPS
§ 152.035 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Districts. The following districts are hereby established for the
corporate limits of the town, and land within those areas shall be designated
on the Official Zone Map by the following symbols:
General Use Districts Symbol
General Use Districts         Symbol
Residential Districts
   Single Family           R1
   Single Family and 2 FamiR2
   Multifamily             MF
Commercial/Town Center Districts
   Office Buffer           OB
   Local Business          LB
   Community Business      CB
   Town Center             TC
Industrial Districts
   Light Industrial        LI
   General Industrial      GI
Planned Unit Developments     PUD
 
   (B)   Overlay districts. Overlay districts are hereby established for the
town as to be later determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.036 ORDER OF DISTRICTS.
   The districts listed in §
152.035 above are ranked in the order from the “least intense” district on the
top, through each successively “more intense” district as the list progresses
to the bottom, except for the Planned Unit Development District, which shall
not be considered part of the progression. PUDs shall be ranked individually
based upon the permitted uses authorized in each PUD and the district in which
such permitted uses would otherwise be allowed as a matter of right.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.037 OFFICIAL ZONE MAP.
   In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter and to allow a variety of
uses in different districts which are appropriate in location, arrangement, and
density to the character of the individual districts and the establishment of a
well considered pattern of development for the town, all real property located
within the corporate boundaries of the town are hereby divided into districts
as shown on the Official Zone Map which, together with all explanatory matter,
is incorporated by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.038 IDENTIFICATION OF THE OFFICIAL ZONE MAP.
   (A)   An Official Zone Map for the town shall be maintained by the Executive
Director. The Official Zone Map shall be maintained by the Executive Director
as a paper hard copy or in electronic format.
   (B)   If the Official Zone Map is maintained as a paper hard copy, the
Official Zone Map may be identified by the signature of the President of the
Town Council and the signature of the Executive Director under the following
words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zone Map of the Town of
New Carlisle, Indiana,” together with the date of adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   If the Official Zone Map is maintained in electronic format, the
Executive Director shall be the custodian of the electronic format Official
Zoning Map. The Executive Director may depict the Official Zone Map, in total
or in part, in various formats and scales as appropriate to the need.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.039 OFFICIAL ZONE MAP CHANGES.
   (A)   If, after adoption of the Official Zone Map, the Town Council, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq.,
changes any of the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the
Official Zone Map, such changes shall be entered by Executive Director as
follows: if hard copy, changes shall be depicted on a “working copy” of the
Official Zone Map; or if electronic format, changes shall be entered to the
electronic format Official Zone Map, which is maintained in the office of the
Area Plan Commission. If the Official Zone Map is a hard copy, the working copy
of the Official Zone Map shall be maintained as an interim representation of
the actual zoning changes approved by the Town Council since the most recent
adoption of an Official Zone Map. The working copy of the Official Zone Map or,
if maintained in electronic format, a hard copy depiction of the Official Zone
Map, shall be available for public inspection and reference during all normal
business hours. In case of discrepancy between changes noted on the working
copy of the Official Zone Map and the official printed record of the Town
Council, the official printed record of the Town Council shall control.
   (B)   In the event that the Official Zone Map becomes worn, damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret, staff shall, on an as-needed basis,
prepare a revised Official Zone Map for review and recommendation by the Area
Plan Commission to the Town Council at a public hearing for which proper notice
has been provided. A revised Official Zone Map shall incorporate all official
actions of the Town Council related to matters depicted on the Official Zone
Map since the adoption of the prior Official Zone Map. A revised Official Zone
Map may also include revisions to correct drafting errors and changes in the
base information related to subdivision plats or streets.
   (C)   The Area Plan Commission shall certify its recommendation of the
revised Official Zone Map to the Town Council for official adoption by the Town
Council. Any such revised Official Zone Map shall be identified as described
above with the addition of the phrase: “As amended to and including the Town
Council agenda of_______________.”
   (D)   No change of any nature shall be made in the Official Zone Map, or
matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the amendment procedures set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.040 RETENTION AND PRESERVATION OF RECORD.
   Unless the prior Official Zone Map has been lost or completely destroyed,
the prior Official Zone Map, along with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment, shall be retained and preserved in the office of the
Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.041 INTERPRETATION OF THE OFFICIAL ZONE MAP.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of districts shown
on the Official Zone Map, the following rules shall apply to the interpretation
of those boundaries.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
thoroughfares, highways, streets, or alleys shall be construed to follow the
centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed to follow the platted lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the corporate boundary
of the town shall be construed as following the corporate boundary of the town.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following along a public right-
of-way which is subsequently vacated shall be construed to follow the
centerline of the vacated public right-of-way.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed as
following the centerlines of those bodies of water.
   (G)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following floodplain lines shall
be construed to follow the floodplain lines. If the floodplain lines are
changed, either naturally or as permitted by law, and the floodplain line
changes are documented and concurred with by the Town Engineer, the boundary
shall be construed as moving with that change.
   (H)   Boundaries indicated as following the contours of certain elevations
or soils of a particular type shall be construed as following the actual height
or soil contour as determined by accepted surveying practices.
   (I)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in the divisions above shall be so controlled.
   (J)   Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zone Map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
   (K)   Where a discrepancy exists between the depictions on the Official Zone
Map and the text of a legal description accompanying an ordinance for zone map
change duly adopted by the Town Council, the text of the legal description
shall control.
   (L)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground do not
agree with those shown on the Official Zone Map, or in other circumstances not
covered above, the Executive Director shall interpret the boundaries. Any party
dissatisfied with the interpretation of the Executive Director may appeal the
interpretation to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(g), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.042 ZONING OF NEWLY ANNEXED LAND TO THE TOWN.
   (A)   All real property annexed into the town after the effective date of
this chapter shall be considered zoned to the R1 District of this chapter.
   (B)   In those instances in which the owner of real property proposed for
annexation into the town desires annexation only if the zoning of the real
property is zoned to a district other than R1, the owner may file a petition
for zone map change which shall identify the real property and the requested
district. The petition shall be filed in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and any applicable procedures adopted by the Area Plan Commission. The
Area Plan Commission shall consider the petition for zone map change and
certify the petition for zone map change to the Town Council with a favorable
recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation, or no recommendation. The Town
Council shall consider the request for annexation and zone map change at a
combined hearing and shall determine the annexation question and zone map
change under a single combined vote. The Area Plan Commission and Town Council
shall have all powers delegated to them by I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq. and this
chapter in determining the zone map change.
   (C)   The Area Plan Commission shall not be obligated to recommend approval,
nor shall the Town Council be obligated to approve a request for zone map
change which, in the sole discretion of the Area Plan Commission or Town
Council, is not consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, the purpose and intent
of this chapter, or the requirements for the approval of a zone map change
contained in this chapter and state law.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.02(h), passed 1-26-2010)
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, OR SIGNS
§ 152.055 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter, there exist the
following, which were legally established prior to the effective date of the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this chapter, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Nonconforming lots of record;
      (2)   Nonconforming buildings or structures;
      (3)   Nonconforming uses of land;
      (4)   Nonconforming uses within nonconforming buildings or structures;
and
      (5)   Nonconforming signs.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these legally established
nonconforming lots of record, buildings, structures, uses, and signs to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is
further the intent of this chapter that legally established nonconforming
buildings, structures, uses, and signs shall not:
      (1)   Be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended; or
      (2)   Be used as grounds for adding other buildings, structures, uses, or
signs which are prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   (C)   Nonconforming lots of record, nonconforming buildings or structures,
nonconforming uses of land, nonconforming uses within nonconforming buildings
or structures, and nonconforming signs that are either illegal or not legally
established on the effective date of this chapter shall not become legally
established by virtue of the enactment of this chapter.
   (D)   Nonconforming lots of record, nonconforming buildings or structures,
nonconforming uses of land, nonconforming uses within nonconforming buildings
or structures, and nonconforming signs which are in full compliance with the
regulations of this chapter pertaining to the permitted uses and development
standards of the district to which the real estate is zoned shall, after the
effective date of this chapter, be considered validated as conforming lots of
record, buildings, structures, uses, and signs for the purposes of interpreting
and applying this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.056 INCOMPATIBILITY OF LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Legally established nonconforming uses are declared by this chapter to
be incompatible with permitted uses in the district in which the legally
established nonconforming use is located.
   (B)   A legally established nonconforming use of a building or structure, or
a legally established nonconforming use of land, shall not be extended,
expanded, or enlarged after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.057 AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP.
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require
a change in the plans for or construction of any building, structure, or sign,
or the designation of use of any building or structure, for which an
improvement location permit has been properly issued prior to the effective
date of this chapter; provided that:
   (A)   The construction of the building, structure, or sign is commenced
within 3 years of the effective date;
   (B)   Construction of the building, structure, or sign is diligently
prosecuted to completion; and
   (C)   Construction of the building, structure, or sign shall be completed
within 7 years of the issuance of the improvement location permit.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.058 LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Legally established nonconforming lots of record. Any legally
established lot recorded or any legally established platted lot recorded prior
to the effective date of this chapter, having less than the required minimum
lot area or minimum lot width required by the applicable district regulations
of this chapter, shall be deemed a permitted exception to the minimum lot area
or minimum lot width and may be used for any permitted use within the
applicable district in which the lot is located, provided that all other
development standards are met, and the lot must be in separate ownership and
not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
   (B)   Legally established nonconforming lot frontage or lot area resulting
from acquisition of right-of-way. Any legally established lot in which the
frontage of the lot or the area of the lot has been reduced below that which is
required by the applicable district regulations of this chapter by the
acquisition of right-of-way or access rights by a governmental entity shall be
deemed a permitted exception to the minimum frontage requirements and may be
used for any permitted use within the applicable district in which the lot is
located, provided that all other development standards are met.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.059 LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES (EXCLUDING
SIGNS).
   Where a legally established nonconforming building or structure exists on
the effective date of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of
this chapter by reason of restrictions on: gross floor area; lot coverage;
building height limitations; front, side, and rear setbacks and yards; location
on the lot; bulk; or other provisions of this chapter applicable to the
building or structure, the building or structure may continue to exist so long
as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to compliance with the following
provisions:
   (A)   Such legally established nonconforming building or structure may not
be enlarged, expanded or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity,
provided the building or structure may be altered so as to decrease the extent
of nonconformity;
   (B)   Should the legally established nonconforming building or structure, or
legally established nonconforming portion of a building or structure, be
damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent that restoration will exceed
50% of the cost of construction of the entire building or structure at the time
the damage or destruction is reported, as determined pursuant to §
152.065 below, the building or structure shall not be reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter; and
   (C)   Should such legally established building or structure be moved for any
reason for any distance whatsoever, the legally established building or
structure shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.060 LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where legally established nonconforming uses of land exist on the effective
date of this chapter which would not be permitted by the provisions of this
chapter, the uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful,
provided that:
   (A)   Such legally established nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged,
expanded, increased, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied on the effective date of this chapter;
   (B)   Such legally established nonconforming uses shall not be moved in
whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied
by the uses on the effective date of this chapter;
   (C)   No additional building or structure shall be erected in connection
with such legally established nonconforming use of land; and
   (D)   A legally established nonconforming use may be changed to a less
intense use permitted within the same district grouping pursuant to §
152.036 (i.e., from one use permitted in the various districts of §§
152.115 through
152.125, to a less intense use listed within the various districts of §§
152.115 through
152.125; but not from a use listed in 1 of the various districts of §§
152.115 through
152.125 to a use listed in 1 of the various districts of §§
152.080 through
152.090, provided all other regulations of this section are complied with.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.061 DISCONTINUATION OF LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   (A)   Commercial/town center, industrial, or multifamily uses. If any
legally established nonconforming commercial/town center, industrial, or
multifamily use of land is either of the following, any subsequent use of the
land shall conform to the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Abandoned for any period of time; or
      (2)   Discontinued for more than 12 consecutive months (except when a
probate related court order or government action impedes access to the
premises).
   (B)   Single family or 2 family uses. If any legally established
nonconforming single family or 2 family use is converted to a permitted use in
the district in which it is located, any subsequent use of the land shall
conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(g), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.062 LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING USES WITHIN LEGALLY ESTABLISHED
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   If any legally established nonconforming use is located within a
legally established nonconforming building or structure, and the legally
established nonconforming building or structure becomes unsafe or unlawful by
reason of physical condition and is razed, the legally established
nonconforming use previously being conducted in the legally established
nonconforming building or structure shall be extinguished and no longer
permitted.
   (B)   If any legally established nonconforming use is located within a
legally established nonconforming building or structure, and the legally
established nonconforming building or structure is damaged or destroyed by any
means to the extent that restoration will exceed 50% of the cost of
construction of the entire building or structure at the time the damage or
destruction is reported, as determined pursuant to §
152.065 below, the legally established nonconforming use previously being
conducted in the legally established nonconforming building or structure shall
be extinguished and no longer permitted.
   (C)   A legally established nonconforming use within a legally established
nonconforming building or structure may be changed to a less intense use
pursuant to §
152.036 (i.e., within §§
152.115 through
152.125, or within §§
152.412 through
152.147, but not from §§
152.115 through
152.125 to §§
152.080 through
152.090, provided all other regulations of this section are complied with.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(h), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.063 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE OF LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING
BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES (EXCLUDING SIGNS).
   (A)   Ordinary repairs. On any legally established nonconforming building or
structure, or portion of a building or structure containing a legally
established nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on the
repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing,
provided that the cubic feet content existing when the building or structure,
or portion of a building or structure containing a legally established
nonconforming use, became nonconforming shall not be increased. Nothing herein
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening, repairing, or restoring to safe
condition of any building or structure, or part thereof, declared to be unsafe
by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of the
official.
   (B)   Reconstruction prohibited. If a legally established nonconforming
building or structure or portions of a building or structure containing a
legally established nonconforming use becomes unsafe or unlawful by reason of
physical condition and is razed, the building or structure shall not thereafter
be rebuilt or used except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Remodeling. The gross floor area and the maximum building height
devoted to the legally established nonconforming use shall not be increased,
except as such increase is required to comply with other applicable federal,
state, or local regulations (i.e., minor enlargements to accommodate ADA
accessibility guidelines or current building codes).
   (D)   Parking area, outside storage area or outside operations area. 
      (1)   A legally established nonconforming parking area, outside storage
area or outside operations area may be maintained, repaired, or upgraded by
hardsurfacing with asphalt or concrete, provided that:
         (a)   There is no increase in the total area occupied by the parking
area, outside storage area or outside operations area; and
         (b)   If, in the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, the
hardsurfacing would serve to reduce a potential negative impact of the existing
parking area, outside storage area, or outside operations area on surrounding
properties (e.g., reduction in fugitive dust emissions, noise, erosion, and the
like).
      (2)   In case of disagreement with the determination of the Zoning
Administrator, any aggrieved party may file an appeal with the Board of Zoning
Appeals pursuant to the provision of §
152.367. Such hardsurfacing shall require an improvement location permit and
shall also be subject to full review under and compliance with the storm
drainage requirements of the town.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(i), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.064 LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Continued existence. Any legally established nonconforming sign may
continue to exist, including the performance of normal and routine maintenance,
so long as the sign remains otherwise lawful.
   (B)   Repair and maintenance.  Legally established nonconforming signs may
receive normal and routine repair and maintenance subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   A legally established nonconforming sign may not be enlarged,
expanded, or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity;
      (2)   A legally established nonconforming sign erected pursuant to the
grant of a variance of either a previously enacted zoning regulation or this
chapter for number of signs, height of sign, setback of sign, or sign surface
area may be altered so as to decrease the extent of nonconformity authorized by
the grant of variance;
      (3)   Except as provided for in division (B)(2) above, the removal of a
sign structure or a sign cabinet shall be deemed definitive evidence that the
sign requires work beyond normal and routine repair and maintenance, and the
sign shall not be repaired, maintained, or reconstructed except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   If a legally established nonconforming sign is damaged or destroyed
by any means to the extent that the repair or reconstruction of the sign
exceeds 50% of the cost of construction of the entire sign, determined pursuant
to §
152.065 below, the legally established nonconforming sign shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   If the cost of normal and routine repair and maintenance of a
legally established nonconforming sign exceeds 50% of the cost of construction
of the entire sign, determined pursuant to §
152.065 below, the legally established nonconforming sign shall not be
repaired, maintained, or reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter; and
      (6)   Should a legally established nonconforming sign be moved for any
reason for any distance whatsoever, the legally established nonconforming sign
shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Amortization of off-premises signs (i.e., billboards).
      (1)   Intent and purpose.
         (a)   Attractive and integrated design features tend to improve the
image of the community, raise property values within the community, attract new
business and residents to the community, and improve the overall quality of
life of the community. Attention to urban design features, therefore, is
determined by the Town Council to be in the best economic interest of the
citizens and business owners of the town.
         (b)   Signs, due to their inherent visibility and incursion upon the
landscape, represent a prominent design feature. The regulations contained in
the sign regulations, §§
152.230 through
152.236, were prepared in recognition of the impact of signs as a prominent
urban design feature. The intent of the sign regulations of this chapter is, in
part: to encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication; to
create a more attractive economic and business climate; to minimize the
possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public and private property; to
foster and improve the economic vitality of the community by enhancing and
protecting the physical appearance of the community; and to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
         (c)   The purpose of the regulations contained in this division (C)
are intended to implement the intent set forth above.
      (2)   Impact of off-premises signs. It is hereby declared by the Town
Council that off-premises signs have the greatest potential of all signs to
have a significant negative impact on the urban design features of the town and
the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community due to: sign
surface area in relation to lot area; sign surface area in relation to size of
buildings; sign surface area in relation to the sign surface area permitted for
on-premises business signs; sign surface area in relation to the sign surface
area of traffic-control signs; inherent needs for high visibility; and
predominantly being located along highly traveled thoroughfares.
      (3)   Declaration of nonconforming off-premises signs. By operation of
law, any off-premises sign which is in existence on the effective date of this
chapter and which does not comply with the provisions of §§
152.230 through
152.236 is either a nonconforming off-premises sign or a legally established
nonconforming off-premises signs.
      (4)   Declaration of legally established off-premises signs. A
nonconforming off-premises sign shall be deemed to be a legally established
nonconforming off-premises sign relative to both use and development standards
if the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The off-premises sign was erected in compliance with regulations
applicable on the date of erection;
         (b)   If a permit was required at the time of erection of the off-
premises sign, the permit was issued in full compliance with all applicable
regulations of the town Zoning Ordinance in effect at the time of issuance of
the permit, and the off-premises sign was constructed, completed and maintained
in full compliance with all applicable regulations of the town Zoning Ordinance
in effect at the time of issuance of the permit;
         (c)   The off-premises sign existed prior to the date of adoption of
this Zoning Ordinance;
         (d)   The off-premises sign has continued to exist from the date of
adoption of this Zoning Ordinance to the present;
         (e)   The off-premises sign has not been abandoned; and
         (f)   The sign surface of the off-premises sign has not been left
blank for a period of 365 consecutive days.
      (5)   Removal of nonconforming off-premises signs. Any nonconforming off-
premises sign (i.e., an off-premises sign which was not in compliance with
applicable sign regulations or grant of variance at the time of the
construction, erection or placement of the sign) shall be subject to immediate
enforcement pursuant to §§
152.405 through
152.413.
      (6)   Removal of legally established nonconforming off-premises signs.  
         (a)   Any legally established nonconforming off-premises sign which
either: is not brought into compliance with the terms and conditions of §§
152.230 through
152.236, sign regulations; or does not obtain the variance(s) necessary to
establish the sign as a permitted sign under this chapter, shall be removed
within 5 years of the effective date of this chapter.
         (b)   Any off-premises sign which becomes a legally established
nonconforming off-premises sign by virtue of: any future amendment of this
chapter; any future zone map amendment; or any annexation of lands into the
corporate jurisdiction of the town, which either: is not brought into
compliance with the terms and conditions of §§
152.230 through
152.236 (as such regulations may be amended from time to time); or does not
obtain the variance(s) necessary to establish the sign as a permitted sign
under this chapter, shall be removed within 5 years of the amendment or
annexation.
         (c)   Removal shall include the removal of the sign surface and any
sign structure (including any sign cabinet, pole, base, foundation, support,
tie rods, upright, bracing, or framework) which supports or is capable of
supporting the sign surface.
      (7)   Maintenance of legally established nonconforming off-premises
signs. Legally established nonconforming off-premises signs shall be subject to
the provisions of division (B) above, regarding maintenance.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(j), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.065 DETERMINATION OF COST OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In determining the reported cost of construction of a building or structure
or the cost of construction of a sign, the Zoning Administrator may consider
the following items:
   (A)   Building or structure: documentation prepared by and provided by the
applicable insurance company responsible for adjusting the loss;
   (B)   Sign: documentation prepared by and provided by an appraiser licensed
by the state to appraise the type of property involved; or
   (C)   Other documentary evidence relevant to reported cost of construction
deemed appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(k), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.066 RECONSTRUCTION, REMODELING OR ENLARGEMENT OF A LEGALLY ESTABLISHED
NONCONFORMING SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING OR 2 FAMILY DWELLING.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any legally
established nonconforming single family dwelling or 2 family dwelling may be
either reconstructed if damaged or destroyed by fire, natural disaster, or for
any other reasons; or remodeled or enlarged; provided that the remodeling or
additions comply with the development standards of the applicable R1 or R2
District related to maximum lot coverage, minimum yards and building setbacks,
maximum building height, and off-street parking.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(l), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.067 AGRICULTURAL NONCONFORMING USE.
   An agricultural nonconforming use may be changed to another agricultural use
without losing agricultural nonconforming use status; provided, however, the
agricultural nonconforming use shall be:
   (A)   Maintained for at least any 3 years in a 5-year period;
   (B)   Maintained and operated in compliance with all state environmental and
state health laws and rules; and
   (C)   Maintained and operated in compliance with all requirements of the St.
Joseph County Zoning Ordinance applicable to conforming agricultural uses, as
that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1221, § 1.03(m), passed 1-26-2010)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 152.080 R1 - SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The R1 Single Family District is established to protect,
promote and maintain the development of single family dwellings as well as to
provide for limited public and institutional uses that are compatible with a
residential neighborhood.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.083.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.084.
      (5)   Home occupations. See §
152.085.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot area.  With both public sewer and public water: 7,200
square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. With both public sewer and public water: 60
feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage. Single family dwellings: 30 feet on a public
street; provided, however, that access shall be from either the public street
or an abutting alley; provided further, however, if access is available from an
alley which is open to the public for traffic, there shall be no access from
the public street.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. Forty percent.
      (5)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front. A minimum front yard and building setback of 25 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Side.
            1.   Residential uses. A minimum side yard of 5 feet.
            2.   Nonresidential uses. A minimum side yard of 20 feet shall be
provided along all side lot lines.
         (c)   Corner side yard. On corner lots, any yard which abuts a street
right-of-way line shall be considered a front yard.
         (d)   Rear. A minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot
lines as follows:
            1.   Primary building: 25 feet.
            2.   Accessory building: 5 feet.
      (6)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 35 feet.
         (b)   Accessory building: 20 feet.
      (7)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (8)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (9)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (10)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (11)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (12)   Greenway connection required. If a subdivision abuts any portion
of a greenway, a direct linkage from the subdivision to the greenway shall be
provided.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 3.01, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.081 R2 - SINGLE FAMILY AND 2 FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The R2 - Single Family and 2 Family District is established to
protect, promote and maintain the development of single family dwellings and 2
family dwellings in the town as well as to provide for limited public and
institutional uses that are compatible with a residential neighborhood.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.  See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.083.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.084.
      (5)   Home occupations. See §
152.085.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot area.  With both public sewer and public water:
         (a)   Single family dwellings: 6,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Two family dwellings and other uses: 7,200 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. With both public sewer and public water:
         (a)   Single family dwellings: 60 feet.
         (b)   Two family dwellings and other uses: 60 feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage.
         (a)   1.   Single family dwellings: 30 feet on a public street; or
            2.   Two family dwellings: 30 feet on a public street.
         (b)   Provided, however, that access shall be from either the public
street or an abutting alley; provided further, however, if access is available
from an alley which is open to the public for traffic, there shall be no access
from the public street.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. Fifty percent.
      (5)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front. A minimum front yard and building setback of 25 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Side.
            1.   Residential uses: a minimum side yard of 5 feet.
            2.   Nonresidential uses: a minimum side yard of 20 feet shall be
provided along all side lot lines.
         (c)   Rear. A minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot
lines as follows.
            1.   Primary building: 20 feet.
            2.   Accessory building: 5 feet.
         (d)   Corner lots; requirements.  On a corner lot, the least width of
any side yard along the side street lot line shall be 10 feet. The Building
Commissioner shall determine which yard abutting a street shall be considered a
front yard and which yard abutting a street shall be considered a side yard.
      (6)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 35 feet.
         (b)   Accessory building: 20 feet.
      (7)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (8)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (9)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (10)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (11)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (12)   Greenway connection required. If a subdivision abuts any portion
of a greenway, a direct linkage from the subdivision to the greenway shall be
provided.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 3.02, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.082 MF - MULTIFAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The MF - Multifamily District is established to protect,
promote, and maintain the development of multifamily dwellings and to provide
for limited public and institutional uses that are compatible with a
multifamily residential neighborhood. The development standards are designed to
promote the establishment of multifamily dwelling projects with on-site
amenities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.083.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.084.
      (5)   Home occupations. See §
152.085.
   (C)   Development standards. All uses permitted in the MF District shall
conform to the following development standards.
      (1)   Utilities. Connection to public water and public sanitary sewer
facilities shall be mandatory for development in this district.
      (2)   Minimum project frontage. One hundred fifty feet on a public street
and gain access from the public street.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks and perimeter yard requirements. A minimum setback
and perimeter yard shall be provided along all property lines of the project as
follows:
         (a)   Front. A minimum front yard and building setback of 25 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Side yards. Twenty-five feet.
         (c)   Rear yards. Twenty-five feet.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards. All minimum yards shall be landscaped in
compliance with the requirements for perimeter yard landscaping as set forth in
§§
152.185 through
152.194 and shall remain free from buildings or structures except where
expressly permitted below or by §§
152.083 through
152.090.
         (a)   Minimum front yards. May include: driveways; walkways with a
maximum width of up to 6 feet; or signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yards.
            1.   When abutting a Residential District, may include: driveways;
interior access driveways; walkways with a maximum width of up to 6 feet; and
shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures.
            2.   When abutting a Commercial/Town Center or Industrial District,
may include: parking areas located no closer than 10 feet to a side lot line;
driveways; interior access driveways; walkways with a maximum width of up to 6
feet, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yards.
            1.   When abutting a Residential District, may include: driveways;
interior access driveways; walkways with a maximum width of up to 6 feet, and
shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures.
            2.   When abutting a Commercial/Town Center or Industrial District,
may include: parking areas located no closer than 10 feet to a rear lot line;
driveways; interior access driveways; walkways with a maximum width of up to 6
feet; and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures.
      (5)   Minimum interior yards. In projects containing 2 or more buildings,
interior yards shall be provided as follows:
         (a)   Around buildings containing dwelling units, the greater of:
            1.   Ten feet; or
            2.   Five feet plus 1 additional foot for each 10 feet of aggregate
length of any wall of a building.
         (b)   Around accessory buildings, structures, or uses: 5 feet.
         (c)   Interior yards shall be measured perpendicular to the building
or structure at all points.
         (d)   The distance between buildings or structures shall be the sum of
each applicable minimum interior yard.
         (e)   Interior yards shall not overlap any required perimeter yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.jpg]
 
      (6)   Use of interior yards.
         (a)   Around buildings containing dwelling units, required interior
yards may be used for:
            1.   Individual interior access drives leading to attached garages
serving individual dwelling units; provided, however, that a minimum 4-foot
wide by 18-foot deep landscape strip shall be provided between the interior
access drives;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.jpg]
 
            2.   Open space;
            3.   Foundation landscaping;
            4.   Walkways; or
            5.   Open balconies, uncovered porches and patios which do not
project into the required interior yard by more than 50% of the depth of the
required interior yard.
         (b)   Around accessory buildings or uses, required interior yards may
be used for: open space; foundation landscaping; walkways; or interior access
drives leading to parking spaces or overhead garage doors.
      (7)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 40 feet, but not to exceed 3 stories
containing a dwelling unit.
         (b)   Accessory buildings or structures: the lesser of 25 feet or the
height of the primary building.
      (8)   Landscaping.  See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (9)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (10)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (11)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (12)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (13)   Greenway connection required. If the lot abuts any portion of a
greenway, a direct linkage from the project to the greenway shall be provided.
      (14)   Developed recreational open space requirements. All multifamily
projects shall provide developed recreational open space amenities as set forth
below:
         (a)   Minimum area. Developed recreational open space areas equal to,
at a minimum, 5% of the total lot area of the project shall be required.
Developed recreational open space may include but not be limited to such
facilities as: playgrounds; parks; tot lots; swimming pools; tennis,
volleyball, or basketball courts; and common recreational buildings.
         (b)   Location and minimum dimension.  Areas designated to comply with
the developed recreational open space requirements:
            1.   Shall not overlap any required interior yards or perimeter
yards; and
            2.   Shall maintain a minimum dimension of 50 feet at all
locations.
      (15)   Requirements for all private streets, interior access driveways,
and interior access drives for multifamily dwelling projects. Individual
buildings and dwelling units located within a multifamily dwelling project may
be served by private streets, interior access driveways, and interior access
drives developed in compliance with the standards set forth in §
152.021.
      (16)   Development standards for 2 family dwellings.  
         (a)   Notwithstanding anything in this MF District to the contrary, a
freestanding 2 family dwelling which is located on an individual lot and which
is not part of a larger multifamily project shall be subject to the applicable
development standards of the R2 District, provided the minimum lot area shall
be 5,000 square feet and the minimum lot width shall be 60 feet.
         (b)   Two family dwellings which are interspersed with and located as
part of a larger multifamily project shall comply with all the development
standards specified in this division (C).
(Ord. 1221, Art. 3.03, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.083 ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory uses, buildings, and structures.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall be permitted in all
Residential Districts; provided, however, that the primary use which is
supported by the accessory use, building, or structure is a permitted use
within the district to which a lot is zoned.
      (2)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall not be permitted on
a lot prior to the erection of the primary building.
      (3)   By way of example only, some typical accessory uses, buildings and
structures in Residential Districts are: garages; carports; porches; decks;
awnings; canopies; mini-barns/storage sheds; patios; outdoor fireplaces;
bathhouses; cabanas; children’s playhouses; swings; game courts, including
tennis or basketball courts; fences; parking areas; signs; swimming pools; hot
tubs; radio sending and receiving antennas; and satellite dish antennas.
   (B)   Development standards for accessory uses, buildings, or structures in
all Residential Districts.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall comply with all
development standards of the applicable district unless an exception is
specifically provided for in §§
152.083 through
152.090.
      (2)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall not encroach upon
any platted or recorded easements unless specifically authorized by the terms
of the easement or by written consent of the agency in whose favor the easement
is granted.
   (C)   Additional development standards for accessory uses, buildings, or
structures in any Residential District. Accessory uses, buildings, or
structures permitted in any Residential District shall also comply with the
following additional development standards.
      (1)   Accessory buildings.
         (a)   Detached. The total square foot area of a detached accessory
building shall be less than the main floor area of the primary building
containing a dwelling unit.
         (b)   Attached. The total floor area of accessory use portions of a
primary building containing a dwelling unit shall be less than the main floor
area of dwelling unit.
         (c)   Maximum capacity of garage(s). No garage or garages, in
combination, whether attached or detached, shall exceed a capacity of 4 cars in
total. Carports shall be included in determining the maximum capacity of a
garage or garages.
         (d)   Maximum number of accessory buildings. The total number of
detached accessory buildings on a lot shall not exceed 1 accessory building;
provided, however, a storage shed with a total floor area of 120 square feet or
less shall not count as an accessory building for the purposes of this
division.
         (e)   Location.  Detached accessory buildings shall not be located
between the established front building line and the front lot line.
      (2)   Swimming pools or hot tubs.
         (a)   A swimming pool or hot tub shall not be located between any
front lot line and the established front building line.
         (b)   A swimming pool or hot tub shall not be located in any minimum
side yard or minimum rear yard for an accessory building.
         (c)   The swimming pool or hot tub, either above or below ground,
shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Indiana Swimming Pool Code
(675 I.A.C. 20) or the applicable town Building Code.
         (d)   No pool or hot tub shall be erected or constructed unless
adequate distance from overhead electrical wires is provided in accordance with
the National Safety Code and the National Electrical Code, current editions.
         (e)   Abandoned or unused swimming pools or hot tubs, situated on a
premises which are not occupied for periods of 30 days or more, shall be
drained or equipped with a cover adequate to prevent persons, children, or
animals from danger or harm.
         (f)   All swimming pools or hot tubs, including associated decking and
aprons over 30 inches above grade, shall be included in the calculation of
maximum lot coverage.
      (3)   Stoops, patios, porches, gazebos, and decks.
         (a)   Stoops, patios, porches, gazebos, and decks over 30 inches above
grade or which include a roof or roof-like structure (e.g., trellis, arbor, and
the like) shall comply with all minimum yards and building setbacks, and
maximum building height regulations of the applicable district for accessory
structures.
         (b)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary,
stoops, patios, porches, and decks less than 30 inches above grade and which do
not include a roof or roof-like structure may be located in a:
            1.   Minimum front yard; provided, however, the stoop, patio,
porch, or deck shall not encroach more than 8 feet into the minimum front yard;
or
            2.   Minimum side yard or minimum rear yard.
      (4)   Fences. Fences typical of a residential setting, including but not
limited to chain link, solid, shadow-box, stockade, architectural screen,
lattice-work or masonry, shall be regulated by divisions (C)(4)(a) through (C)
(4)(d) below. Other types of fences, including but not limited to barbed wire,
electric, razor wire, or other similar types of security wire in any yard,
shall be regulated by division (C)(4)(d) below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.jpg]
 
         (a)   Individual lots; front yards. 
            1.   Fences located in a minimum front yard or in the buildable
area of a lot located between the front line of the primary building and the
minimum front yard shall not exceed:
               a.   Thirty-six inches in height above grade, if the open space
percentage of the fence is equal to or less than 70%; or
               b.   Forty-eight inches in height above grade if the open space
percentage of the fence is greater than 70%.
            2.   Fences erected in the front yard shall be natural fences of
hedges, trees, shrubbery, or an ornamental type, such as treated wood, painted
wood, treated split rail, ornamental wrought iron, split rail, vinyl, brick,
stone, open picket (with 40% open space between pickets in any front or corner
side yard) and similar materials commonly used in urban residential
applications as deemed appropriate by the Building Commissioner. Scrap lumber,
plywood, sheet metal, plastic, or fiberglass sheets are expressly prohibited.
         (b)   Subdivision frontage. Fences shall not exceed 6 feet in height
above grade when located along a perimeter street of a recorded, platted
residential subdivision where individual lots do not have direct access to the
perimeter street.
         (c)   All other fences. Fences located elsewhere on a lot shall not
exceed:
            1.   Six feet in height above grade, if the open space percentage
of the fence is equal to or less than 70%; or
            2.   Eight feet in height above grade if the open space percentage
of the fence is greater than 70%.
         (d)   Fences, including but not limited to barbed wire, electric,
razor wire, or other similar types of security wire fences:
            1.   Shall only be permitted for nonresidential uses, including but
not limited to: utility sites such as water, sewer, electric, and gas main
facilities; heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning equipment; restricted
public access areas such as airports, sewer, and water treatment facilities;
public safety facilities; public and private communication facilities such as
wireless, radio, and television communication towers; and
            2.   Such fences shall not exceed 10 feet in height.
         (e)   All fences. All fences shall comply with the clear sight
requirements of §
152.020.
      (5)   Satellite dish antennas in Residential Districts.
         (a)   The regulations of this section shall apply to satellite dish
antennas in all Residential Districts which are greater than 1 meter (39.37
inches) in diameter. These regulations are intended to allow satellite dish
antennas to be located in a manner that:
            1.   Does not unreasonably delay or prevent the installation,
maintenance, or use of the antenna;
            2.   Does not unreasonably increase the cost of installation,
maintenance, or use of the antenna; or
            3.   Preclude reception of an acceptable quality signal.
         (b)   The regulations of this section are intended to accomplish the
following specific and clearly defined health, safety, and aesthetic
objectives:
            1.   To promote the public health and safety by providing criteria
for the placement of satellite dish antennas greater than 1 meter (39.37
inches) in diameter which ensure that all such installations are performed in a
manner which limits endangerment of life and property on the site and on
surrounding properties if the antennas should collapse or are felled by ice or
high winds; and
            2.   To ensure the aesthetic harmony of residential areas by
providing for a harmonious streetscape, consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,
uncluttered by nonresidential structures, including guy wires, poles, masts,
cables or other appurtenances which can create a visual blight offensive to
those who reside, work, or travel in the town.
         (c)   The following regulations are intended to meet the above
objectives without unnecessarily burdening the federal interests in ensuring
the availability of satellite services and in promoting fair and effective
competition among competing communication service providers. In any Residential
District, satellite dish antennas greater than 1 meter (39.37 inches) in
diameter shall be permitted as either ground mounted or roof mounted, provided
that:
            1.   If ground mounted, satellite dish antennas shall:
               a.   Not be located in any minimum front yard, minimum side
yard, minimum rear yard, or between the established front building line and the
front lot line; and
               b.   Not exceed the maximum building height allowed for an
accessory structure.
            2.   If roof mounted, satellite dish antennas shall:
               a.   Not exceed the lesser of 5 feet above the peak of the roof
or the maximum building height limit allowed for a primary building;
               b.   Not extend beyond the horizontal limits of the roof area;
and
               c.   Be installed in accordance with applicable Building Codes.
Furthermore, written documentation of such compliance, including load
distribution within the building’s support structure, may be required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60.jpg]
 
      (6)   Grade level improvements. Grade level improvements which do not
include a foundation shall be permitted as follows:
         (a)   In a minimum front yard: walkways and driveways.
         (b)   In a minimum side yard or minimum rear yard: walkways, and
interior access drives; provided, however, that an interior access drive may
only be located in 1 minimum side yard and shall not be less than 8 feet in
width nor greater than 16 feet in width.
      (7)   Game courts.  Game courts shall not be located in any minimum front
yard, minimum side yard, minimum rear yard, or between the established front
building line and the front lot line; provided, however, a permanent or
temporary basketball goal may be located adjacent to a driveway or interior
access drive in any minimum yard in any Residential District.
      (8)   Trash containers. Any trash container exceeding 36 cubic feet in
capacity shall:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
         (a)   Be screened on at least 3 sides by a building wall or a solid-
walled enclosure, not less than 6 feet in height nor more than 10 feet in
height above grade, equipped with an opaque screen gate, and any solid-walled
portion of the enclosure shall be provided with foundation landscaping;
         (b)   Not be located between the front façade of the primary building
and the front lot line; and
         (c)   Not be located in any minimum front yard, minimum side yard, or
minimum rear yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-64.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.084 TEMPORARY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permits required. A temporary use, building, or structure which is in
compliance with the provisions of this section shall be allowed in any
Residential District. A temporary use, structure, or building which will be
converted into a permanent primary or accessory use after the cessation of the
temporary use shall be required to obtain an improvement location permit prior
to the establishment of the use or the construction of any structure or
building. A temporary use, structure, or building which will be removed from
the site upon cessation of the temporary use shall comply with the regulations
contained in this section, and shall obtain an improvement location permit.
   (B)   Permitted temporary uses, buildings and structures. Temporary uses,
buildings, or structures shall be permitted in any Residential District as
follows.
      (1)   Permitted temporary uses. Including but not limited to:
construction trailers; sales offices in portions of model homes; temporary
signs (see §§
152.230 through
152.236 for additional regulations); and garage sales (see division (G) below
for additional regulations).
      (2)   Special exception temporary uses. Including but not limited to:
sales office (freestanding); and temporary living quarters.
   (C)   Duration. Except as specifically provided otherwise in §§
152.083 through
152.090, a temporary use, building, or structure shall be permitted for a
period not to exceed 1 year. Except as specifically provided otherwise in §§
152.083 through
152.090, the improvement location permit, if required, may be renewed 1 or more
times by the Zoning Administrator, for good cause shown, for an additional
period(s) not to exceed a total of 3 years beyond the original expiration date.
   (D)   Compliance with development standards. Any temporary use, building, or
structure shall comply with all applicable development standards and setback
requirements in the district in which the temporary use, building, or structure
is located.
   (E)   Additional development standards for temporary construction trailers
or sales offices.
      (1)   Under-skirting shall be installed around the entire perimeter of
the building or structure;
      (2)   In the case of a new subdivision, shall be located on an approved
lot, as shown on the primary plat;
      (3)   In the case of a single lot development, shall be located on the
lot in compliance with all minimum yard and setback requirements;
      (4)   In the case of a redevelopment project, shall be located on the
lot, plot, tract, or parcel of the redevelopment project in compliance with all
minimum yard and setback requirements; and
      (5)   Shall serve only lots or dwelling units within the primary plat,
single lot development, or redevelopment project.
   (F)   Cessation of use. All buildings, structures, or debris associated with
the temporary use shall be removed from the site immediately upon completion or
cessation of the temporary use or expiration of the time period set forth
above.
   (G)   Regulations for garage sales/yard sales. Notwithstanding any
regulations above to the contrary, a garage sale may be conducted on a premises
which includes a dwelling unit subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   A garage sale/yard sale may be conducted 5 times each calendar year
per lot and shall not exceed 5 consecutive days in duration;
      (2)   A garage sale/yard sale shall only be conducted during the hours
from sunrise to sunset;
      (3)   All personal property exhibited outdoors during a garage sale/yard
sale shall be placed within a building or structure or otherwise removed from
the premises immediately following the end of the garage sale;
      (4)   Garage sale signs shall comply with the applicable provisions of §
152.231(L);
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit 1 or more
owners or occupants from conducting a combined garage sale on 1 of the lots
owned or occupied by the participants, provided that all other provisions of
this section are complied with;
      (6)   A garage sale/yard sale or garage sale sign shall be exempt from
the requirement of this chapter to obtain an improvement location permit for a
temporary use; and
      (7)   Personal property exhibited outdoors during a garage sale/yard sale
may be located in a minimum front yard, minimum side yard, or minimum rear
yard; provided, however, the personal property shall not be located in any
public right-of-way.
   (H)   Mobile classrooms. Mobile classrooms shall only be permitted as a
temporary use in compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Mobile classrooms shall be for use by a religious use or any public
or parochial school; and
      (2)   Mobile classrooms may be permitted for a period not to exceed 5
years from the date of issuance of an improvement location permit.
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.085 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. This section provides standards to ensure compatibility of
home occupations with other permitted uses and with the residential character
of the district and neighborhood in which the home occupation is located as
well as clearly establishing the secondary or incidental status of home
occupations in relation to the primary use of the lot for dwelling purposes.
   (B)   Required standards. Home occupations shall be permitted in all
Residential Districts subject to the following standards:
      (1)   Home occupations shall be limited to family members residing within
the dwelling and who make the dwelling their primary place of residence.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
incidental and subordinate to the use for residential purposes by the
occupants.
      (3)   There shall be no structural alterations to the interior of the
dwelling to accommodate a home occupation which would render the dwelling
undesirable for residential use.
      (4)   There shall be no structural additions, enlargements, or exterior
alterations changing the residential appearance of the dwelling or the lot or
other visible indications of the conduct of the home occupation.
      (5)   There shall be no additional or separate entrance to the dwelling
for the purpose of conducting the home occupation.
      (6)   There shall be no internal or external alterations, construction
features, or use of electrical or mechanical equipment which would change the
fire rating of the structure.
      (7)   There shall be no outdoor storage of any kind related to the home
occupation.
      (8)   All aspects of the home occupation shall be conducted within the
dwelling structure in which the occupant makes his or her residence. No home
occupation shall be conducted in any detached accessory building.
      (9)   There shall be no traffic generated by a home occupation which is
greater in volume than that which would be normally expected in the residential
area in which the home occupation is located.
      (10)   There shall be no equipment or process used in the home occupation
which creates noise, vibration, glare, smoke, fumes, odors, or electrical
interference detectable to the normal senses at any point beyond the lot line
in such a manner as to annoy, disturb, frighten, or otherwise interfere with
the use and quiet enjoyment of adjacent properties, or which creates water
usage or the production of sewage other than domestic in nature.
      (11)   There shall be no electrical or mechanical equipment utilized in
the home occupation which will create any visual or audible interference with
radio or television reception or which will cause fluctuations in line voltage
off the premises.
      (12)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of commercial
vehicles for delivery of materials to or from the premises other than vehicles
normally associated with residential home delivery (i.e., postal or parcel
delivery vehicles).
      (13)   The dwelling shall not be altered in its appearance and the home
occupation shall not be conducted in such a manner as to differentiate the
dwelling from the residential character of the area by either use of materials,
construction, separate entrances, lighting, signs, or other means.
   (C)   Prohibited home occupations. The following uses, by the nature of the
investment or operation, have a pronounced tendency, once started, to rapidly
increase beyond the limits specified above for home occupations and impair the
use, value, and quiet enjoyment of adjacent residential properties. Therefore,
the uses specified below and other similar or comparable uses shall not be
permitted as home occupations:
      (1)   Antique, book, or gift shop;
      (2)   Appliance repair, large or small;
      (3)   Auto/vehicle repairs, major or minor;
      (4)   Bicycle repair of service;
      (5)   Dance studio;
      (6)   Dental office or clinic;
      (7)   Freight, trucking, or shipping;
      (8)   Lawn mower repair or service;
      (9)   Medical office or clinic;
      (10)   Painting of vehicles, trailers, boats, and the like;
      (11)   Photography studio;
      (12)   Private schools with organized classes;
      (13)   Restaurants, eating or drinking establishments;
      (14)   Upholstering;
      (15)   Television or radio repair;
      (16)   Tool or equipment rental;
      (17)   Tooling, welding or machine shop;
      (18)   Veterinary clinic, kennel, or stable; and
      (19)   Any use not in compliance with the intent and conditions set forth
in this section.
   (D)   Permitted home occupations. By way of example, the following uses,
when conducted in compliance with the conditions set forth above, qualify as
permitted home occupations:
      (1)   Artist’s, musician’s, or writer’s studio;
      (2)   Cake making or decorating (not a catering or commercial bakery
facility);
      (3)   Data processing, word processing, or transcription services;
      (4)   Dressmaking, millinery, sewing, or tailoring;
      (5)   Barber shop/beauty shop;
      (6)   Home school, including cottage schools;
      (7)   Personal office;
      (8)   Teaching or tutoring, including musical instruments or dance, when
limited to 1 pupil at a time; and
      (9)   Other uses that comply with the intent and conditions set forth
above in this section.
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.086 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All use in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter or
established after the effective date of this chapter in any Residential
District shall comply with the performance standards of the applicable
municipal, state, or federal regulations pertaining to: vibration; smoke, dust,
and particulate matter; noxious matter; odor; noise; heat; glare; or waste, and
shall be subject to enforcement action by the applicable municipal, state, or
federal agency responsible for monitoring and enforcing the regulations.
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.087 ZONING VIOLATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Use. The conduct of any activity in a Residential District that is not
specifically enumerated as a permitted primary use or accessory use in that
district, and which activity has not been legally established by a currently
valid variance, special exception, or other approval grant.
   (B)   Development standards.  Failure to comply with district development
standards, including but not limited to landscaping, paving of parking areas,
minimum parking space requirements, trash dumpster enclosure, fencing, or
screening requirements.
   (C)   Approvals. The failure to comply with the terms, provisions or
conditions of: a grant of variance or special exception; an approval of a
development plan; or other approval grant authorized by this chapter.
   (D)   Large vehicles. No tractor, trailer, tractor-trailer combination, or
vehicle (including but not limited to a tow truck, dump truck, flatbed truck,
semi-trailer, and the like) equal to or in excess of 1-1/2 tons capacity, or
which has a bed more than 8 feet long, may be parked upon any land or premises
in any Residential District. However, the foregoing shall not apply to school
buses used for the transportation of school children to and from school or to
and from a school sponsored activity, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. any day except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays on designated snow
routes of a sufficient width as determined by the town. Nothing in this section
is intended to affect the already regulated parking on designated snow routes
during a snow emergency, or other areas in which parking is regulated by duly
authorized signs.
   (E)   Parking, storing, maintaining, or keeping of any recreational vehicle
or recreational trailer in any Residential District. Notwithstanding any
provision in this chapter to the contrary, no recreational vehicle or
recreational trailer shall be parked, stored, maintained, or kept on any
property in any Residential District unless in compliance with the following:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles or recreational trailers may be parked or
stored:
         (a)   Inside an accessory building or garage; or
         (b)   Outside in such a manner that no part of any such recreational
vehicle shall project into any:
            1.   Minimum front yard for a primary building;
            2.   Minimum side yard for a primary building; or
            3.   Minimum rear yard for an accessory building.
      (2)   Not more than a total of 2 recreational vehicles/recreational
trailers shall be permitted to be parked or stored in the open on the same lot
at any one time.
      (3)   Parked or stored recreational vehicles shall not be occupied or
used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes in any Residential
District.
   (F)   Parking of vehicles; general.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the
parking of any motor vehicles of any size or nature for any period of time on a
lot of record without a primary building also being located on the lot of
record shall be a zoning violation.
      (2)   If a primary building exists on a lot of record, parking on the lot
of record shall be accessory to the use of the primary building located on the
lot of record.
      (3)   The prohibition against parking set forth above in this division
(F) shall not apply to a “parking lot - accessory” authorized by the grant of a
special exception.
      (4)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the
parking of any vehicle within the required minimum front setback shall not be
allowed unless the parking is on a legal, properly hard-surfaced driveway or
parking space which has a durable and dust-free surface, as required by §§
152.250 through
152.258.
   (G)   Parking of vehicles; family. In order to avoid congestion in the
public ways, promote safety for vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and ensure
that residential areas provide healthful surroundings for family life, no
family, consisting of persons not related by blood, legal adoption or marriage,
living and cooking together as a single housekeeping unit, shall consist of
more persons who possess an automotive vehicle than the number of off-street
parking spaces provided on-site in a garage, interior access drive, or driveway
on the lot, plus the number of legal, on-street parking spaces located
immediately adjacent to and on the same side of the street as the front lot
line of the lot.
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.088 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Additions along a legally established nonconforming setback. The
minimum front yard, minimum side yard, or minimum rear yard for any legally
established nonconforming building having a setback which is less than that
which is required by this chapter shall be allowed to expand 1 or more times
along the legally established nonconforming setback.
   (B)   Additional front setback provisions.
      (1)   Public streets. In the case where the thoroughfare plan does not
include a proposed right-of-way, or where the existing right-of-way is greater
than the proposed right-of-way, the existing right-of-way line shall be used
for setback measurement.
      (2)   Public streets and private streets.
         (a)   The minimum front yard and minimum building setback from the
right-of-way line of a private street shall be the same as for “all other
streets” in the applicable Residential District.
         (b)   The setback provisions of this chapter are subject to the
following modification:
         In any block in any Residential District contained in this chapter in
which an existing front yard setback is established by existing, legally
established nonconforming buildings or structures on more than 60% of the total
number of lots within the same block face fronting on the same public street,
the minimum front yard setback for any new building, structure, or addition
along the block face shall be the average of that established front yards, if
the average dimension is less than the minimum front yard setback established
by this chapter.
         (c)   Any development permitted within a minimum front yard setback
shall be those specified in the “Use of Minimum Yards” divisions of the
applicable Residential District or by §§
152.083 through
152.090.
      (3)   Double frontage lots.
         (a)   Limited access highway rights-of-way. That portion of a double
frontage lot which abuts a limited access highway right-of-way shall be subject
to setback and landscaping requirements of this chapter applicable to minimum
rear yards.
         (b)   All other streets. That portion of a double frontage lot which
abuts any perimeter street in which a “non-access easement” is provided for by
a properly approved and recorded plat shall be subject to setback and
landscaping requirements of this chapter applicable to minimum rear yards.
      (4)   Enclosure of legally established nonconforming porches. Legally
established nonconforming porches which encroach no more than 8 feet into a
minimum front yard, may be enclosed subject to compliance with the following
regulations:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 17 feet or 2 stories in height;
         (b)   Enclosing walls shall contain windows over a minimum of 75% of
the width of the outside wall and a minimum average window sash height of 50%
of the room height; and
         (c)   Containing no interior partitions.
   (C)   Setback regulations for laterally-supported extensions.
Notwithstanding any setback regulations of this chapter to the contrary,
laterally-supported extensions, such as either division (C)(1) or (C)(2):
      (1)   Canopies, sills, belt courses, eaves, cornices, bay windows, roof
overhangs, or other ornamental features, may extend a maximum of:
         (a)   Three feet into any minimum front yard or minimum rear yard; or
         (b)   Twelve inches into any minimum side yard.
      (2)   Open or enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and
balconies opening upon fire towers may extend a maximum of 5 feet into any
minimum front yard, minimum side yard or minimum rear yard.
   (D)   Height regulations for roof mounted or roof piercing structures. The
following regulations shall apply to the roof mounted or roof piercing
structures in any Residential District:
      (1)   Parapet walls may exceed the maximum building height, provided the
parapet wall does not exceed 4 feet in height above the roof line; and
      (2)   Roof mounted or roof piercing chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, mechanical penthouses, stacks, water towers, radio or television
antenna, ornamental towers, cupolas, domes, steeples, and spires may exceed the
maximum building height, provided the structures do not exceed 25 feet in
height above the roof line.
   (E)   Lot area and lot width regulations for legally established
nonconforming lots of record. See §
152.058.
   (F)   Additional standards for manufactured home dwellings.
      (1)   Construction. All manufactured home dwellings shall comply with the
following requirements:
         (a)   Compliance with federal standards. Each module of a manufactured
dwelling home must bear a label certifying that it is built in compliance with
the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Law of 1974 (42
U.S.C. 5401 et seq.);
         (b)   Date of construction. Each manufactured home dwelling shall have
been constructed after January 1, 1981;
         (c)   Main floor area.  Each manufactured home dwelling shall have at
least 950 square feet of main floor area (exclusive of garages, carports, and
open porches); and
         (d)   Multiple sections. Each manufactured home dwelling shall be
composed of more than 1 section.
      (2)   Installation standards. All manufactured home dwellings shall be
installed in compliance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Permanent perimeter enclosure required. Each manufactured home
dwelling shall be set into an excavated area with crawl space walls or basement
walls constructed in accordance with the terms of the Indiana One and Two
Family Dwelling Code. The space between the floor joists of the manufactured
home dwelling and the excavated under-floor grade shall be completely enclosed
with a permanent perimeter enclosure, except for required openings; and
         (b)   Support system. All load-bearing foundations for a manufactured
home dwelling shall be installed in conformance with the regulations of the
Indiana One and Two Family Dwelling Code and with the manufacturer’s
installation specifications.
      (3)   Siding standards. The siding materials used on all manufactured
home dwellings shall be limited to the following:
         (a)   Residential horizontal aluminum lap siding;
         (b)   Residential horizontal vinyl lap siding;
         (c)   Wood-grain, weather resistant, pressboard siding;
         (d)   Stucco siding;
         (e)   Brick siding; or
         (f)   Stone siding.
      (4)   Roofing standards. The roofing materials used on all manufactured
home dwellings shall be limited to the following:
         (a)   Asbestos shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
         (b)   Fiberglass shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
         (c)   Shake shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
         (d)   Asphalt shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
         (e)   Slate; or
         (f)   Tile.
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.089 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL PRIVATE STREETS AND PRIVATE ALLEYS.
   See §
152.021.
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(g), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.090 NEIGHBORHOOD RECYCLING COLLECTION POINTS.
   A neighborhood recycling collection point may be established as an accessory
use to a religious use, school, library, or other use containing not less than
20 parking spaces, provided that the area used for the neighborhood recycling
collection point does not reduce the number of required off-street parking
spaces for the primary use or special exception use below the minimum
requirements established in §§
152.250 through
152.258.
(Ord. 1221, § 3.11(h), passed 1-26-2010)
COMMERCIAL/TOWN CENTER DISTRICTS
§ 152.115 OB - OFFICE BUFFER DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The OB - Office Buffer District is established to promote the
development of small-scale office, professional, business, governmental, and
quasi-governmental uses. Since the types of permitted uses in the OB District
are typically less commercial in appearance and are architecturally more
harmonious with residential structures, this district can serve as a buffer
between Residential Districts and more intense Commercial or Industrial
Districts. The OB District may also serve as a gradual and reasonable
transition between major thoroughfares and Residential Districts. The OB
District development standards are established to assure small-scale
developments.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.119.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.120.
      (5)   Home occupations. See §
152.121.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot shall have a minimum lot
width and frontage on a public street of 35 feet.
      (2)   Yards and building setbacks.  
         (a)   Front. A minimum front yard and building setback of 25 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Minimum side yard and setback. The minimum side yard and setback
for all lots shall be as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 5 feet; or
            2.   Minimum side residential bufferyard: 15 feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard and setback. The minimum rear yard and setback
for all lots shall be as follows:
            1.   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet.
            2.   Minimum rear residential bufferyard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Use of minimum yards and residential bufferyards. All minimum yards
and residential bufferyards shall be landscaped in compliance with the
requirements for perimeter yard landscaping as set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194 and shall remain free from structures except where expressly permitted
below:
         (a)   Minimum front yards may include: parking areas, provided that no
portion of the parking area may be located closer to the right-of-way than 15
feet; driveways; or signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures.
         (b)   Minimum front residential bufferyards may include: driveways; or
signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (c)   Minimum side yards and rear yards may include: interior access
driveways; or walkways or other pedestrian way connections to adjoining lots;
provided that the remainder of the side yards shall be maintained as open space
free from buildings or structures;
         (d)   Minimum side residential bufferyards and rear residential
bufferyards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Thirty-five feet.
      (5)   Maximum gross floor area. No building shall exceed 5,000 square
feet of gross floor area.
      (6)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (7)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (9)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258; provided, however, a lot in the OB District may include on-street
parking located immediately adjacent to the lot, if the adjacent on-street
parking is approved as to location and design by the Indiana Department of
Transportation (if applicable) and the Town Board of Public Works. If on-street
parking is provided, the amount of off-street parking required by this chapter
for the lot shall be deemed to be reduced by the number of on-street parking
spaces provided immediately adjacent to the lot.
      (10)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (11)   Greenway connection required. If the lot abuts any portion of a
greenway, a direct linkage from the project to the greenway shall be provided.
      (12)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery and walk-up customer service windows)
shall be conducted completely within enclosed buildings, except for walk-up
customer service windows or automated teller machines (ATMs), provided that the
facilities are not freestanding and are set flush with the façade of the
building.
      (13)   Architecture.
         (a)   Additions to existing buildings. All additions to existing
buildings shall utilize building materials that are compatible and harmonious
with the materials used on the existing building.
         (b)   Exterior renovations, major additions and accessory buildings.
Exterior renovations, major additions and accessory buildings to existing
buildings or facilities are encouraged to comply with the provisions in
division (C)(13)(c) below, for new construction, however, the minimum
requirement for exterior renovations, major additions and accessory buildings
shall be the same as in division (C)(13)(a), above, for additions to existing
buildings.
         (c)   New construction. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new primary buildings shall comply with 1 of the
following 2 sets of architectural regulations regarding building material and
architectural features on each façade visible from a public street:
            1.   All brick (excluding window, display window, door, roofing,
fascia and soffit materials), provided that the brick used on each applicable
façade shall include:
               a.   At least 2 architectural elements (e.g., quoins, pilasters,
soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices, dentils, architraves, and the
like); or
               b.   At least 2 colors of brick, with the secondary color
constituting a minimum of 10% of the façade (excluding windows, display
windows, doors, roofing, fascia or soffit materials); or
            2.   Two or more building materials (excluding window, display
window, door and roofing materials), provided:
               a.   Primary building material. The primary building material
shall be either: brick; stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone, and the like);
architectural pre-cast concrete, if the surface looks like brick or stone; or
exterior insulation and finish system (E.I.F.S.) or equivalent, and shall
constitute a minimum of 50% of each applicable façade.
               b.   Secondary building material. The secondary building
material shall constitute a minimum of 10% of the façade. Glass curtain wall or
a faux window (not intended for use as a window or display window) may qualify
as a secondary building material.
               c.   Architectural features. In addition, the exterior building
material selection shall be supplemented with the use of multiple colors,
textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated, and the like) or architectural
elements (e.g., quoins, pilasters, soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices,
dentils, architraves, and the like) on each façade visible from a public
street.
      (14)   Development standards for single family dwellings. Notwithstanding
anything in this OB District to the contrary, a single family dwelling shall be
subject to the applicable development standards of the R2 District.
      (15)   Development standards for 2 family dwellings. Notwithstanding
anything in this OB District to the contrary, a 2 family dwelling shall be
subject to the applicable development standards of the R2 District.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.01, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.116 LB - LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The LB - Local Business District is established to provide for
small businesses located outside of the town center and which provide for the
full range of convenience uses necessary to meet the daily needs of nearby
residential neighborhoods. Permitted uses within the LB Districts are regulated
in character to assure harmonious development with the nearby Residential
Districts served and are limited in size and scale to promote pedestrian access
and neighborhood use.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.119.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.120.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot shall have a minimum lot
width and frontage on a public street of 50 feet.
      (2)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front. A minimum front yard and building setback of 25 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Minimum side yard and setback. Minimum side yard and setback
shall be provided from the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum side residential bufferyard: 20 feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard and setback. Minimum rear yard and setback
shall be provided from the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum rear yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum rear residential bufferyard: 20 feet.
      (3)   Use of minimum yards and residential bufferyards. All minimum yards
and residential bufferyards shall be landscaped in compliance with the
requirements for perimeter yard landscaping as set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194 and shall remain free from structures except where expressly permitted
below:
         (a)   Minimum front yards may include: parking areas, interior access
drives, interior access driveways or gasoline sales areas, provided that no
portion of the areas may be located closer to the right-of-way than 15 feet;
driveways; or signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (b)   Minimum front residential bufferyards may include: driveways; or
signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (c)   Minimum side and rear yards: minimum side and rear yards may
include: interior access driveways; walkways; or pedestrian ways, connecting to
adjoining lots or developments provided that the remainder of the yards shall
be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures; and
         (d)   Minimum side and rear residential bufferyards: minimum side and
rear residential bufferyards may include interior access driveways connecting
to adjoining lots or developments provided that the remainder of the
residential bufferyards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings
or structures.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Thirty-five feet.
      (5)   Maximum gross floor area.
         (a)   No freestanding use shall exceed 16,000 square feet in gross
floor area;
         (b)   No individual and separately operated use in a multi-tenant
building shall exceed 60,000 square feet of gross floor area; and
         (c)   No multi-tenant building shall exceed 80,000 square feet of
total gross floor area.
      (6)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (7)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (9)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (10)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (11)   Greenway connection required. If the lot abuts any portion of a
greenway, a direct linkage from the project to the greenway shall be provided.
      (12)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery, walk-up customer service windows, and
drive-through customer service windows) shall be conducted completely within
enclosed buildings, except where expressly permitted below:
         (a)   Outdoor seating for restaurants:
            1.   Shall not be located between a building line and a residential
bufferyard;
            2.   Shall not be located in any required yard or any street right-
of-way unless otherwise approved by the Indiana Department of Transportation
and the town;
            3.   Shall be located adjacent to the business’ tenant bay or
storefront façade;
            4.   Shall be included in the calculation of required foundation
landscaping area and any applicable building foundation landscaping area and
associated foundation landscaping shall be extended or relocated around the
perimeter of the outdoor seating area;
            5.   Shall not exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the
restaurant; and
            6.   Shall not block an entrance or exit to or from the business or
building.
         (b)   Outdoor display or sales of merchandise:
            1.   Shall be accessory to the primary use;
            2.   Shall not exceed 10% of the gross floor area of each non-
related and separately operated use;
            3.   Shall not be located in a required yard or required
residential bufferyard; and
            4.   Shall not be located so as to interfere or conflict with
sidewalks, walkways, pedestrian ways, entrances or exits to or from the
business or building, required parking areas, required loading areas,
driveways, interior access drives, interior access driveways, perimeter
landscape yards, or foundation plantings.
         (c)   Gasoline pumps: provided that no outdoor operations other than
the dispensing or installation of gasoline, oil, antifreeze and other similar
products, and the performance of minor services for customers as related to the
dispensing or installation are conducted on the site.
         (d)   Walk-up or drive-through customer service windows or automated
teller machines (ATMs), provided that the facilities shall:
            1.   Be set flush with the façade of the building;
            2.   If freestanding, abut the façade of the building or be located
within a service unit island under a drive-through canopy attached to the
building; and
            3.   Be located so as to not interfere or conflict with sidewalks,
pedestrian ways, entrances or exits to or from the business or building,
parking areas, loading areas, driveways, interior access drives, interior
access driveways, perimeter landscape yards, or foundation landscaping.
      (13)   Architecture.
         (a)   Additions to existing buildings. All additions to existing
buildings shall utilize building materials that are compatible and harmonious
with the materials used on the existing building.
         (b)   Exterior renovations, major additions, and accessory buildings.
Exterior renovations, major additions, and accessory buildings to existing
buildings or facilities are encouraged to comply with the provisions in
division (c) below, for new construction, however, the minimum requirement for
exterior renovations, major additions and accessory buildings shall be the same
as in division (C)(13)(a) above, for additions to existing buildings.
         (c)   New construction. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new primary buildings shall comply with 1 of the
following 2 sets of architectural regulations regarding building material and
architectural features on each façade visible from a public street:
            1.   All brick (excluding window, display window, door, roofing,
fascia and soffit materials), provided that the brick used on each applicable
façade shall include:
               a.   At least 2 architectural elements (e.g., quoins, pilasters,
soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices, dentils, architraves, and the
like); or
               b.   At least 2 colors of brick, with the secondary color
constituting a minimum of 10% of the façade (excluding windows, display
windows, doors, roofing, fascia, or soffit materials).
            2.   Two or more building materials (excluding window, display
window, door and roofing materials), provided:
               a.   Primary building material. The primary building material
shall be either: brick; stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone, and the like);
architectural pre-cast concrete, if the surface looks like brick or stone; or
exterior insulation and finish system (E.I.F.S.) or equivalent, and shall
constitute a minimum of 50% of each applicable façade.
               b.   Secondary building material. The secondary building
material shall constitute a minimum of 10% of the façade. Glass curtain wall or
a faux window (not intended for use as a window or display window) may qualify
as a secondary building material.
               c.   Architectural features. In addition, the exterior building
material selection shall be supplemented with the use of multiple colors,
textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated, and the like) or architectural
elements (e.g., quoins, pilasters, soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices,
dentils, architraves, and the like) on each façade visible from a public
street.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.02, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.117 CB - COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The CB - Community Business District is established to provide
a location for high volume and high intensity commercial uses. Activities in
this district often include outdoor sales or outdoor operations. Developments
within the CB District shall be coordinated to facilitate vehicular and
pedestrian access from nearby Residential Districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.119.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.120.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot or integrated center shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage on a public street of 50 feet.
      (2)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front. A minimum front yard and building setback of 25 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Minimum side yard and setback. Shall be provided from the lot
line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum side residential bufferyard: 20 feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard and setback. Shall be provided from the lot
line as follows:
            1.   Minimum rear yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum rear residential bufferyard: 20 feet.
         (d)   Minimum yards for out lots.
            1.   Out lots. Out lots within an integrated center shall provide a
minimum yard of 5 feet along all lot lines in common with other out lots or 10
feet along all lot lines in common with the main portion of the integrated
center.
            2.   Perimeter out lots. If any portion of an out lot abuts the
perimeter of the integrated center, that portion of the out lot shall be
required to comply with the applicable minimum front, side or rear yard
requirements set forth above.
            3.   Integrated center. The main portion of the integrated center
shall not be required to provide a minimum yard along the lot line in common
with any out lot.
      (3)   Use of minimum yards and residential bufferyards.  All minimum
yards and residential bufferyards shall be landscaped in compliance with the
requirements for perimeter yard landscaping as set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194 and shall remain free from structures, except where expressly permitted
below:
         (a)   Minimum front yards may include: parking areas or gasoline sales
areas, provided that no portion of the areas may be located closer to the
right-of-way than 15 feet; driveways; or signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (b)   Minimum front residential bufferyards may include: driveways; or
signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236 and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (c)   Minimum side and rear yards: minimum side yards and minimum rear
yards may include: parking areas; interior access drives; interior access
driveways; walkways; or pedestrian ways connecting to adjoining lots or
developments, provided that the remainder of the yards shall be maintained as
open space free from buildings or structures;
         (d)   Minimum side and rear yards for out lots: minimum side yards and
minimum rear yards of an out lot may include: parking areas; interior access
drives; interior access driveways; walkways; or pedestrian ways connecting to
adjoining out lots or developments, provided that the remainder of the yards
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures;
         (e)   Minimum side and rear residential bufferyards: shall be
maintained as open space free from buildings or structures.
      (4)   Maximum height. All buildings or structures (including transmission
towers), 50 feet.
      (5)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (6)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (7)   Sign. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (8)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (9)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (10)   Greenway connection required. If the lot abuts any portion of a
greenway, a direct linkage from the project to the greenway shall be provided.
      (11)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery, walk-up customer service windows and
drive-through customer service windows) shall be conducted completely within
enclosed buildings, except where expressly permitted below:
         (a)   Outdoor seating for restaurants:
            1.   Shall not be located between a building line and a residential
bufferyard;
            2.   Shall not be located in any required yard or any street right-
of-way unless otherwise approved by the Indiana Department of Transportation
and the town;
            3.   Shall be located adjacent to the business’ tenant bay or
storefront;
            4.   Shall be included in the calculation of required foundation
landscaping area and any applicable building foundation landscaping area and
associated foundation landscaping shall be extended or relocated around the
perimeter of the outdoor seating area;
            5.   Shall not exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the
restaurant;
            6.   Shall not block an entrance or exit to or from the business or
building; and
            7.   Shall be located so as to not interfere or conflict with
sidewalks, walkways, pedestrian ways, required parking areas, required loading
areas, driveways, interior access drives, interior access driveways, perimeter
landscape yards, or foundation landscaping.
         (b)   Vending machines:
            1.   Shall abut the exterior wall of the building; and
            2.   Shall not be located in a required yard or required
residential bufferyard.
         (c)   Outdoor display or sales of merchandise:
            1.   Shall be accessory to the primary use;
            2.   Shall not exceed the lesser of: 10% of the gross floor area;
or 20,000 square feet, for each non-related and separately operated use;
            3.   Shall not be located in a required yard or required
residential bufferyard; and
            4.   Shall be located so as to not interfere or conflict with
sidewalks, walkways, pedestrian ways, entrances or exits to or from the
business or building, required parking areas, required loading areas,
driveways, interior access drives, interior access driveways, perimeter
landscape yards, or foundation landscaping.
         (d)   Gas pumps. Gasoline pumps, provided that no outdoor operations
other than the dispensing or installation of gasoline, oil, antifreeze and
other similar products and the performance of minor services for customers as
related to the dispensing or installation are conducted on the site.
         (e)   Walk-up or drive-through customer service windows.  Walk-up or
drive-through customer service windows or automated teller machines (ATMs),
provided that the facilities shall be located so as to not interfere or
conflict with sidewalks, walkways, pedestrian ways, entrances or exits to or
from the business or building, parking areas, loading areas, driveways,
interior access drives, interior access driveways, perimeter landscape yards,
or foundation landscaping.
      (12)   Architecture.
         (a)   Additions to existing buildings. All additions to existing
buildings shall utilize building materials that are compatible and harmonious
with the materials used on the existing building.
         (b)   Exterior renovations, major additions and accessory buildings.
Exterior renovations, major additions and accessory buildings to existing
buildings or facilities are encouraged to comply with the provisions in
division (C)(12)(c), below, for new construction, however, the minimum
requirement for exterior renovations, major additions and accessory buildings
shall be the same as in division (C)(12)(a), above, for additions to existing
buildings.
         (c)   New construction. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new primary buildings shall comply with 1 of the
following 2 sets of architectural regulations regarding building material and
architectural features on each façade visible from a public street:
            1.   All brick (excluding window, display window, door, roofing,
fascia, and soffit materials), provided that the brick used on each applicable
façade shall include:
               a.   At least 2 architectural elements (e.g., quoins, pilasters,
soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices, dentils, architraves, and the
like); or
               b.   At least 2 colors of brick, with the secondary color
constituting a minimum of 10% of the façade (excluding windows, display
windows, doors, roofing, fascia or soffit materials); or
            2.   Two or more building materials (excluding window, display
window, door and roofing materials), provided:
               a.   Primary building material. The primary building material
shall be either: brick; stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone, and the like);
architectural pre-cast concrete, if the surface looks like brick or stone; or
exterior insulation and finish system (E.I.F.S.) or equivalent, and shall
constitute a minimum of 50% of each applicable façade.
               b.   Secondary building material. The secondary building
material shall constitute a minimum of 10% of the façade. Glass curtain wall or
a faux window (not intended for use as a window or display window) may qualify
as a secondary building material.
               c.   Architectural features. In addition, the exterior building
material selection shall be supplemented with the use of multiple colors,
textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated, and the like) or architectural
elements (e.g., quoins, pilasters, soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices,
dentils, architraves, and the like) on each façade visible from a public
street.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.03, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.118 TC - TOWN CENTER DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The TC - Town Center District is established to promote the
development of the original central village core of the town. The regulations
are intended to encourage all the elements of a traditional village center,
including: storefront retail; professional offices; and dwelling units located
either in townhouse developments, in the upper stories of mixed-use buildings
or in connection with a grade level business. The development standards in this
district are designed to: encourage a pedestrian oriented design throughout the
district; and maintain an appropriate pedestrian scale, massing, and
relationship between buildings and structures within the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.119.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.120.
      (5)   Home occupations. See §
152.121.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot shall have a minimum lot
width and frontage on a public street of 30 feet.
      (2)   Yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front. All primary use buildings shall be located at the greater
setback of the proposed right-of-way or existing right-of-way, subject to the
following additional building placement regulations:
            1.   For sites containing 1 building: in elevation view from the
street frontage, at least 50% of the length of the façade of the building
facing a street shall be located at the greater setback of the proposed right-
of-way or existing right-of-way;
            2.   For sites containing multiple buildings: in elevation view
from the street frontage, at least 50% of the visible façades of the buildings
facing a street shall be located at the greater setback of the proposed right-
of-way or existing right-of-way; and
            3.   Parking areas and interior access drives shall not be located
within 20 feet of the front lot line.
         (b)   Minimum side yard and setback. The minimum side yard and setback
for all lots shall be as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 0 feet; provided, however, if a side yard
is provided along a side lot line not abutting an alley, the setback shall not
be less than 5 feet.
            2.   Minimum side residential bufferyard: 15 feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard and setback. The minimum rear yard and setback
for all lots shall be as follows:
            1.   Minimum rear yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum rear residential bufferyard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Use of minimum yards and residential bufferyards. All yards and
residential bufferyards shall remain free from structures except where
expressly permitted below:
         (a)   Front yards: where provided may include: driveways; or
incidental signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236 and shall otherwise be developed as plazas in compliance with the
following requirements:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-66.jpg]
 
            1.   Shall be located adjacent to a building;
            2.   Shall be surfaced with concrete, brick, or other form of
hardsurface paver appropriate for the proposed development, except for those
areas used for trees, foundation landscaping, lawn area, or planters;
            3.   Shall maintain surface areas at a slope of less than 3%,
surface areas may be stepped, where appropriate, as necessary to accommodate
natural topography; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-68.jpg]
 
            4.   The street frontage portion of the plaza perimeter shall
include shade or ornamental trees planted with a maximum spacing of 40 feet on-
center. If street trees have already been installed on an abutting lot, the on-
center spacing shall be measured from the existing street trees.
         (b)   Minimum front residential bufferyards: may include driveways; or
incidental signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236; and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures and shall be landscaped in compliance with the requirements for
perimeter yard landscaping as set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194;
         (c)   Minimum side and rear yards: may include driveways, interior
access driveways, parking areas, loading areas, walkways, or other pedestrian
way connections to adjoining lots, provided that the remainder of the yards
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures and shall
be landscaped in compliance with the requirements for perimeter yard
landscaping as set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194; and
         (d)   Minimum side and rear residential bufferyards: may include:
            1.   Walkways or other pedestrian way connections to adjoining
residential areas provided that the remainder of the yards shall otherwise be
maintained as open space free from buildings or structures and shall be
landscaped in compliance with the requirements for perimeter yard landscaping
as set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194; or
            2.   Parking, as provided for in division (C)(9) below.
      (4)   Building height.
         (a)   Minimum front façade height: in the elevation view from the
street frontage, all primary use buildings shall maintain a minimum height of
26 feet above grade and shall contain a minimum of 2 occupiable stories.
         (b)   Maximum building height: 40 feet; not to exceed 3 occupiable
stories.
      (5)   Maximum gross floor area.
         (a)   For any use listed under the following headings, no single use,
whether freestanding or contained in an integrated center, shall exceed 8,000
square feet of gross floor area:
 
Clothing service       Personal services
Food sales and service Recreation
Miscellaneous          Retail
 
         (b)   For any use listed under the following headings, no single use,
whether freestanding or contained in an integrated center, shall exceed 50,000
square feet in gross floor area:
 
Educational use              Public facilities
Governmental use             Residential
Office/professional services Utilities
 
      (6)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (7)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (9)   Parking. The following off-street parking provisions shall apply.
         (a)   Non-dwelling uses. Non-dwelling uses located in the TC District
shall provide parking as provided below:
            1.   There shall be no required minimum number of off-street
parking spaces for any non-dwelling use located in the TC District;
            2.   If off-street parking spaces are provided, 1 row of parking
spaces may be located along and accessed directly from an alley abutting a side
lot line or a rear lot line, provided that the design and location of the
adjacent alley accessed parking is approved by the town; and
            3.   All other off-street parking areas provided in the TC District
shall comply with the provisions of §
152.254.
         (b)   Dwelling uses. All dwelling uses located in the TC District
shall provide parking spaces at a ratio of 1 parking space per dwelling unit.
If such required parking spaces are located in an off-street parking area, the
design of the off-street parking area shall comply with the requirements of §
152.254. However, the required parking spaces may be accessed directly from an
alley abutting a side lot line or a rear lot line, provided the design and
location of the adjacent alley accessed parking is approved by the town.
      (10)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (11)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery, and walk-up customer service windows)
shall be conducted completely within enclosed buildings, except where expressly
permitted below:
         (a)   Outdoor seating for restaurants, provided that the outdoor
seating:
            1.   Shall not be located in any street right-of-way unless
otherwise approved by the town;
            2.   Shall be permitted only along the business’ tenant bay or
storefront façade;
            3.   Maintain a useable sidewalk width of not less than 6 feet; and
            4.   Shall not block an entrance or exit to or from the business or
building.
         (b)   Outdoor display or sales of merchandise:
            1.   Shall not be located in any street right-of-way unless
otherwise approved by the town;
            2.   Shall maintain a useable sidewalk width of not less than 6
feet;
            3.   Shall be located against the building façade;
            4.   Shall be permitted only along the business’ tenant bay or
storefront façade;
            5.   Shall not block an entrance or exit to or from the business or
building;
            6.   Shall not exceed 10% of the gross floor area of each non-
related and separately operated use; and
            7.   Shall be permitted only during the hours of operation of the
business and shall be removed at the close of each business day.
         (c)   Walk-up customer service windows or automated teller machines
(ATMs), provided that the facilities are not freestanding and are set flush
with the façade of the building.
         (d)   Vending machines, provided that vending machines:
            1.   Shall not be located in any street right-of-way unless
otherwise approved by the town;
            2.   Shall abut the exterior wall of the building;
            3.   Shall maintain a useable sidewalk width of not less than 6
feet; and
            4.   Shall not be located in a required yard or required
residential bufferyard.
      (12)   Architecture. The intent of these architecture regulations is to
encourage the development of buildings with simple, 3-dimensional forms that
include the characteristic appearance and scale of early 1900s main streets and
which are oriented to the main street through the town (U.S. 20/Michigan
Street).
         (a)   Additions to existing buildings. All additions to existing
buildings shall utilize building materials that are compatible and harmonious
with the materials used on the existing building.
         (b)   Exterior renovations, major additions, and accessory buildings.
Exterior renovations, major additions, and accessory buildings to existing
buildings or facilities are encouraged to comply with the provisions in
division (C)(12)(c) below, for new construction; however, the minimum
requirement for exterior renovations, major additions, and accessory buildings
shall be the same as in division (C)(12)(a) above, for additions to existing
buildings; provided, however, the following additional regulations shall apply
to all exterior renovations or building remodeling:
            1.   Any stone, brick, or other original masonry façade material
shall not be covered with any kind or horizontal or vertical siding;
            2.   Any window or door openings in the façade shall not be
boarded, blocked-in, or bricked-in; and
            3.   Any exterior renovation of a building façade that includes
added horizontal or vertical siding over stone, brick, or other original
masonry façade material shall include the removal of the horizontal or vertical
siding and restore the original stone, brick, or other masonry façade.
         (c)   New construction. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment and to ensure that the size and scale of new development
is consistent with the established character of the town, all new primary
buildings shall comply with the following regulations.
            1.   One of the following 2 sets of architectural regulations
regarding building material and architectural features on each façade visible
from a public street:
               a.   All brick (excluding window, display window, door, roofing,
fascia, and soffit materials), provided that the brick used on each applicable
façade shall include:
                  i.   At least 2 architectural elements (e.g., quoins,
pilasters, soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices, dentils, architraves,
and the like); or
                  ii.   At least 2 colors of brick, with the secondary color
constituting a minimum of 10% of the façade (excluding windows, display
windows, doors, roofing, fascia or soffit materials); or
               b.   Two or more building materials (excluding window, display
window, door and roofing materials), provided:
                  i.   Primary building material. The primary building material
shall be either: brick; stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone, and the like);
or architectural pre-cast concrete, if the surface looks like brick or stone,
and shall constitute a minimum of 50% of each applicable façade.
                  ii.   Secondary building material. The secondary building
material shall constitute a minimum of 10% of the façade. Glass curtain wall or
a faux window (not intended for use as a window or display window) may qualify
as a secondary building material.
                  iii.   Architectural features. In addition, the exterior
building material selection shall be supplemented with the use of multiple
colors, textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated, and the like) or architectural
elements (e.g., quoins, pilasters, soldier courses, lintels, friezes, cornices,
dentils, architraves, and the like) on each façade visible from a public
street.
            2.   Trash enclosures. All trash enclosures shall utilize 3 solid-
walled sides. The materials of the 3 solid-walled sides of the enclosure shall
be consistent and compatible with the materials of the primary building. Gates
shall be located on the non-solid-walled side of the trash enclosure and shall
be covered with a wood, simulated wood or a similar material painted a
compatible color with the primary building. The opening of a trash enclosure
shall not be oriented to or within 90 degrees from being parallel to any front
lot line.
            3.   Articulation. In order to assure that new development in the
town center maintains a scale and relationship to the street and sidewalk which
can promote pedestrian activity in the downtown area, all buildings shall
comply with the following design features.
               a.   Human scale. Architectural elements such as colonnades,
canopies, awnings, display windows, lighting, and variation in building
materials may be used to create a human scale to buildings.
               b.   Detailing. Architectural detailing (i.e., variation in
building materials, surface recesses, protrusions, cornices, and the like)
shall be used to distinguish the ground floor from upper levels of a building.
Such architectural detailing used to distinguish the ground floor from upper
levels shall be no lower than 18 feet above grade.
               c.   Vertical rhythm. The vertical rhythm of architectural
detailing on a building shall be consistent or compatible with the pattern
established on adjacent buildings located within the same block face.
               d.   Building entrances. All buildings which front on U.S. 20/
Michigan Street shall orient a main entrance to U.S. 20/Michigan Street.
            4.   Mechanical equipment.
               a.   Roof mounted. All roof mounted mechanical equipment shall
be screened based upon an elevation view of the building on all sides.
               b.   Ground mounted. All ground mounted mechanical equipment
shall be screened on all sides by: the building; screen walls or fences of a
material and color which is compatible with the primary building; or evergreen
or densely twigged hedge plants (with or without mounding) of a height at time
of planting which is not less than the height of the mechanical equipment to be
screened.
            5.   Fenestration.
               a.   Ground floor: window openings on the ground floor of a
building shall occupy a minimum of 60% of the ground floor façade area (i.e.,
that portion of the façade located below 18 feet above grade).
               b.   Upper floors: window openings on the upper floors of
buildings shall occupy no more than 40% of the entire upper floor façade area
(i.e., that portion of the façade located above 18 feet above grade).
               c.   Any nonresidential building shall have windows (or faux
windows) on the upper façade (i.e., that portion of the façade located below 18
feet above grade).
               d.   Window size and shape shall be compatible with those of
adjacent buildings and shall have a generally vertical orientation.
               e.   Windows, doors, eaves, and parapets on a building shall be
proportional and shall relate to one another.
         (d)   Awnings, canopies, and marquees.
            1.   Design: awnings, canopies and marquees shall be of a simple
design intended to complement the architectural elements (storefront cornices,
windows, or doors) of the building façade and shall not obscure significant
architectural details of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-70.jpg]
 
            2.   Materials:
               a.   Awnings and canopies shall be constructed of high-quality
canvas or canvas-like materials such as matte finish canvas or matte finish
vinyl coated canvas.
               b.   Awnings or canopies shall not utilize bubble, box, or shiny
plastic or vinyl coated materials.
               c.   Awnings or canopies shall not utilize any transparent or
translucent vinyl.
               d.   Awnings or canopies shall not utilize any wood.
            3.   Illumination:
               a.   Wall mounted lighting, such as gooseneck lamps with a metal
shade and decorative mounting over awnings or canopies, shall be permitted.
               b.   Backlit or internally-illuminated vinyl or plastic awnings,
canopies, or marquees shall be prohibited.
            4.   Clearance to grade: the bottom edge of the:
               a.   Awning or canopy shall not be less than 8 feet, 6 inches
above grade over a walkway;
               b.   Marquee shall not be less than 9 feet above grade over a
walkway; or
               c.   Awning, canopy, or marquee shall not be less than 15 feet
above grade over a driveway, interior access drive, or alley.
            5.   Projection from building: the maximum projection of an awning,
canopy, or marquee shall not exceed 8 feet from or beyond the supporting
building and shall not project beyond any walkway adjacent to the building.
            6.   Encroachment over public right-of-way: no awning, canopy, or
marquee shall encroach into the air rights of any public street right-of-way
unless approved by the town prior to the placement of the awning, canopy or
marquee.
            7.   Signs on awnings, canopies, or marquees: see §
152.235.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.04, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.119 ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory uses, buildings, and structures. Accessory uses,
buildings, or structures shall be permitted in all Commercial/Town Center
Districts; provided, however, that the primary use which is supported by the
accessory use, building, or structure is a permitted use within the district to
which a lot is zoned.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall not be permitted on
a lot, out lot, or main portion of an integrated center prior to the erection
of the primary building on the lot, out lot, or main portion of the integrated
center.
      (2)   By way of example only, some typical accessory uses, buildings, and
structures in the Commercial/Town Center Districts are: fences, trash
containers, recycling containers, drive-through facilities, gasoline pump
islands, and canopies.
   (B)   Development standards for accessory uses, buildings, or structures in
all Commercial/Town Center Districts.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall comply with all
development standards of the applicable district unless an exception is
specifically provided for in this section.
      (2)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall not encroach upon
any platted easements unless specifically authorized by the terms of the
easement or by written consent of the agency in whose favor the easement is
granted.
   (C)   Additional development standards for accessory uses, buildings, or
structures in any Commercial/Town Center District. Accessory uses, buildings,
or structures permitted in any Commercial/Town Center District shall also
comply with the following additional development standards:
      (1)   Residential uses. Accessory uses, buildings, or structures provided
for any legally established residential uses located in any Commercial/Town
Center District shall comply with the provisions of this division (C).
      (2)   Fences (including chain link, solid, architectural screen, lattice-
work, or masonry).
         (a)   Fences located in a minimum front yard or in the buildable area
of a lot located between the front line of the primary building and the minimum
front yard shall not exceed:
            1.   Thirty-six inches in height above grade, if the open space
percentage of the fence is equal to or less than 70%; or
            2.   Forty-eight inches in height above grade if the open space
percentage of the fence is greater than 70%.
         (b)   Shall not exceed 8 feet in height above grade in a required side
yard or a required rear yard;
         (c)   Shall not include any barbed, electric, razor, or other similar
types of security wire when located between the front façade of the primary
building and the front lot line; and
         (d)   Shall comply with the clear sight area requirements of this
chapter, §
152.020.
      (3)   Trash containers. Trash containers exceeding 36 cubic feet shall:
         (a)   Be screened on at least 3 sides by a building wall or a solid-
walled enclosure, not less than 6 feet in height nor more than 10 feet in
height above grade, equipped with an opaque screen gate, and any solid-walled
portion of the enclosure shall be provided with foundation landscaping;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-72.jpg]
 
         (b)   Not be located between the front façade of the primary building
and the front lot line; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-74.jpg]
 
         (c)   Not be located in any minimum front yard, minimum side yard,
minimum rear yard, minimum front residential bufferyard, minimum side
residential bufferyard, or minimum rear residential bufferyard.
      (4)   Parking areas. Shall comply with the provisions of §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (5)   Loading areas. Shall comply with the provision of §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (6)   Signs. Shall comply with the provisions of §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (7)   Drive-through facilities. Shall be so designed that:
         (a)   Drive-through lanes do not conflict with the safe and efficient
flow of traffic into and out of required parking spaces or loading spaces;
         (b)   Drive-through lanes have a “bail out” capability for all
vehicles which have entered the drive-through lane;
         (c)   The minimum drive-through facility standards include:
            1.   A drive-through lane with a minimum width of 10 feet measured
from the furthest point of projection of a drive-through facility from the
building or structure; and
            2.   A “bail out” lane with a minimum width of 12 feet measured
from and running parallel to the full length of the drive-through lane;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-76.jpg]
 
         (d)   If a “bail out” lane also serves as an interior access drive
providing access to parking spaces, the “bail out” lane/interior access drive
shall be limited to a 1-way traffic pattern following the direction of the
drive-through lane;
         (e)   If a parking area is developed beyond the “bail out” lane, the
parking area shall be separated from the “bail out” lane by a curbed island
having a minimum width of 3 feet;
         (f)   Provide at least 5 waiting spaces including the first occurrence
of any ordering, pick-up or service facility; and
         (g)   Provide sufficient room for at least 1 waiting space after
exiting the last pick-up or service facility.
      (8)   Gasoline dispensers and pump island canopies. Gasoline dispensers
and pump island canopies shall:
         (a)   Not be located within any minimum front yard, side yard, rear
yard, front residential bufferyard, side residential bufferyard or rear
residential bufferyard unless specifically authorized in the “Use of Minimum
Yards and Residential Bufferyards” division of the applicable district; and
         (b)   Shall be provided with adequate on-site maneuverability so as to
avoid any interference with through traffic on any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.11(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.120 TEMPORARY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permits required. A temporary use, building, or structure which is in
compliance with the provisions of this section, shall be allowed on a lot or
out lot in any Commercial/Town Center District. A temporary use, structure, or
building which will be converted into a permanent primary or accessory use
after the cessation of the temporary use shall be required to obtain an
improvement location permit prior the establishment of the use or the
construction of any structure or building. A temporary use, structure, or
building which will be removed from the site upon cessation of the temporary
use shall comply with the regulations contained in this section, and shall
obtain an improvement location permit.
   (B)   Permitted temporary uses, buildings, and structures. By way of example
only, permitted temporary uses, buildings, and structures include: construction
trailers, sales offices, mobile offices, and temporary seasonal retail sales.
   (C)   Duration. Except as specifically provided otherwise in this section, a
temporary use, building, or structure shall be permitted for a period not to
exceed 1 year. Except as specifically provided otherwise in this section, the
improvement location permit, if required, may be renewed 1 or more times by the
Zoning Administrator, for good cause shown, for an additional period(s) not to
exceed a total of 3 years beyond the original expiration date.
   (D)   Compliance with development standards. Any temporary use, building, or
structure shall comply with all applicable development standards and setback
requirements in the district in which the temporary use, building, or structure
is located. Temporary construction trailers, temporary freestanding sales
offices, and other temporary uses which shall not be converted into a permanent
primary or accessory use, shall be exempt from the requirement to provide a
hard surfaced parking area.
   (E)   Cessation of use. All buildings, structures, or debris associated with
the temporary use shall be removed from the site immediately upon completion or
cessation of the temporary use or expiration of the time period set forth
above.
   (F)   Additional regulations for temporary seasonal retail sales uses. Any
temporary seasonal retail sales use, structure, or building shall also comply
with the following regulations:
      (1)   The use or structure shall comply with all setback requirements
applicable to off-street parking spaces on the site;
      (2)   A minimum of 3 off-street parking spaces shall be provided on-site
for the temporary seasonal retail sales use;
      (3)   The location of the temporary seasonal retail sales use and its
required amount of parking spaces shall not interfere with any required parking
spaces or safe and efficient flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic around
the parking area for the permanent primary use of the site;
      (4)   Signs for the temporary seasonal retail sales shall comply with the
provisions of §§
152.230 through
152.236 regarding temporary signs; and
      (5)   Notwithstanding the provisions above to the contrary, seasonal
retail sales uses shall not exceed 45 consecutive days per occurrence nor a
total of 120 days during any calendar year.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.11(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.121 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations undertaken in connection with a legally established
residential use located in any Commercial/Town Center District shall comply
with the provisions of §
152.085.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.11(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.122 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All use in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter or
established after the effective date of this chapter in any Commercial/Town
Center District shall comply with the performance standards of the applicable
municipal, state, or federal regulations pertaining to: vibration; smoke, dust,
and particulate matter; noxious matter; odor; noise; heat; glare; or waste, and
shall be subject to enforcement action by the applicable municipal, state, or
federal agency responsible for monitoring and enforcing the regulations.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.11(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.123 ZONING VIOLATIONS IN COMMERCIAL/TOWN CENTER DISTRICTS.
   The following shall be deemed violations of this chapter and shall be
enforceable by the town as set forth in §§
152.405 through
152.413:
   (A)   The conduct of any activity in a Commercial/Town Center District that
is not specifically enumerated as a permitted primary use or accessory use in
that district, and which activity has not been legally established by a
currently valid variance, special exception, or other approval grant;
   (B)   Failure to comply with district development standards, including but
not limited to landscaping, paving of parking areas, minimum parking space
requirements, trash dumpster enclosure, fencing or screening requirements; or
   (C)   The failure to comply with the terms, provisions, or conditions of: a
grant of variance or special exception; an approval of a development plan; an
approval of a conditional use district; or other approval grant authorized by
this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.11(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.124 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Additions along a legally established nonconforming setback.
      (1)   The minimum front yard, minimum side yard, or minimum rear yard for
any legally established nonconforming building having a setback which is less
than that which is required by this chapter shall be allowed to expand 1 or
more times along the legally established nonconforming setback provided the
applicant can demonstrate that:
         (a)   All other applicable development standards, except the 1 legally
established nonconforming building setback to be expanded upon, are in
compliance with the requirements of the district;
         (b)   A minimum of 2 of the other applicable development standards
will be brought into compliance with the requirements of the district; or
         (c)   A minimum of 4 of the other applicable development standards
will be reduced as to their extent of nonconformity by the maximum extent
feasible given site constraints and such that, in the determination of the
Zoning Administrator, conditions on the lot will be improved.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (A), other applicable development
standards shall include the following divisions of each district: use of
minimum yards and residential bufferyards; maximum building height;
landscaping; lighting; signs; parking; loading; greenway connection; and
outdoor operations.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not be applicable to any
lot which includes a side residential bufferyard or a rear residential
bufferyard (i.e., abuts a Residential District on along a side lot line or a
rear lot line).
   (B)   Additional front setback provisions.
      (1)   Public streets. In the case where the thoroughfare plan does not
include a proposed right-of-way, or where the existing right-of-way is greater
than the proposed right-of-way, the existing right-of-way line shall be used
for setback measurement.
      (2)   Public streets and private streets.
         (a)   The minimum front yard and minimum building setback from the
right-of-way line of a private street shall be the same as for a local public
street in the applicable Commercial/Town Center District.
         (b)   The setback provisions of this chapter are subject to the
following modification:
         In any block in any Commercial/Town Center District contained in this
chapter in which an existing front yard setback is established by existing,
legally established buildings or structures on more than 60% of the total
number of lots within the same block face fronting on the same public street,
the minimum required front yard setback for any new building, structure, or
addition along the block face shall be the average of the established front
yards if the dimension is less than the minimum front yard setback established
by this chapter.
         (c)   Any development permitted within a required front yard shall be
those specified in the “Use of Minimum Yards and Residential Bufferyards”
divisions of the applicable Commercial/Town Center District.
   (C)   Setback regulations for laterally-supported extensions.
Notwithstanding any setback regulations of this chapter to the contrary,
laterally-supported extensions, such as:
      (1)   Canopies, sills, belt courses, eaves, cornices, bay windows, roof
overhangs, or other ornamental features, may extend:
         (a)   A maximum of 12 inches into any minimum front yard, minimum side
yard, or minimum rear yard; or
         (b)   For a building with a setback of less than 3 feet, a maximum of
12 inches into a public right-of-way, subject to the upon approval of the
Indiana Department of Transportation (if applicable) and the town.
      (2)   Open or enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies opening upon fire towers may extend:
         (a)   A maximum of 5 feet into any minimum front yard, minimum side
yard or minimum rear yard; or
         (b)   For a building with a setback of less than 3 feet, a maximum of
3-1/2 feet into a public right-of-way, subject to the upon approval of the
Indiana Department of Transportation (if applicable) and the town.
   (D)   Height regulations for roof mounted or roof piercing structures. The
following regulations shall apply to the roof mounted or roof piercing
structures in any Commercial/Town Center District:
      (1)   Parapet walls may exceed the maximum building height, provided the
parapet wall does not exceed 4 feet in height above the roof line; and
      (2)   Roof mounted or roof piercing chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, mechanical penthouses, stacks, stage towers, scenery lofts, water
towers, radio or television antenna, ornamental towers, cupolas, domes,
steeples and spires, may exceed the maximum building height, provided the
structures do not exceed 25 feet in height above the roof line.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.11(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.125 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL PRIVATE STREETS AND PRIVATE ALLEYS.
   See §
152.021.
(Ord. 1221, § 4.11(g), passed 1-26-2010)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 152.140 LI - LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The LI - Light Industrial District is established to provide
for development of office/warehouse, warehouse/distribution, wholesale,
assembly and manufacturing or processing facilities which are clean, quiet,
free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor, dust, smoke,
or glare. Permitted uses in this district tend to generate heavy traffic,
require extensive community facilities, and may require limited amounts of
outdoor storage. The LI District is also intended to function as a transitional
district between the more intense general Industrial Districts and other less
intense districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.142.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.143.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width and frontage.  Each lot or industrial park shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage on a public street of 100 feet.
      (2)   Minimum yards and minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   Front: a minimum front yard and building setback of 30 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Minimum side yard and setback: shall be provided from the lot
line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum side residential bufferyard: 50 feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard and setback: shall be provided from the lot
line as follows:
            1.   Minimum rear yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum rear residential bufferyard: 50 feet.
      (3)   Use of minimum yards and residential bufferyards. All minimum yards
and residential bufferyards shall be landscaped in compliance with the
requirements for perimeter yard landscaping as set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194 and shall remain free from structures except where expressly permitted
below:
         (a)   Minimum front yards may include: parking areas, loading areas,
interior access drives, or interior access driveways, provided that no portion
of the area may be located closer to the right-of-way than 25 feet; or signs as
regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall be otherwise maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (b)   Minimum front residential bufferyards may include: driveways; or
signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (c)   Minimum side and rear yards may include: interior access
driveways connecting to adjoining lots provided that the remainder of the yards
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures;
         (d)   Minimum side and rear residential bufferyards: shall be
landscaped with grass and shrubbery, trees, or hedge, or in combination with
other suitable ground cover materials and maintained as open space free from
buildings or structures; and
         (e)   Minimum yards for lots within the same industrial park: along
all lot lines in common with other lots located within the same industrial park
(see graphic below):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.jpg]
 
            1.   Intent. This provision is intended to provide more flexibility
in the use of a minimum side yard (division (C)(3)1.a. below) or rear yard
(division (C)(3)1.b. below) on lots within an industrial park when those
minimum side yards or rear yards abut other interior lots in the same
industrial park. The use of yards along lot lines located around the perimeter
of the industrial park shall comply with the applicable use of side yards and
rear yards as specified in divisions (C)(3)(a) through (C)(3)(d) above.
               a.   Use of side yards on lots interior to an industrial park
(either of the following divisions (C)(3)1.a.i. or (C)(3)1.a.ii. applies): the
portion of a minimum side yard on a lot interior to an industrial park:
                  i.   Located between the front lot line and minimum front
building setback line may include: driveways; or interior access driveways
connecting to adjoining lots; or
                  ii.   Located behind the minimum front building setback line
may include: parking areas; loading areas; interior access driveways; interior
access drives; trash containers; or outdoor storage.
               b.   Use of rear yards on lots interior to an industrial park:
the portion of a minimum rear yard on a lot interior to an industrial park may
include parking areas, loading areas, interior access driveways, interior
access drives, or outdoor storage.
            2.   Remaining area.  Provided, however, that the remainder of the
yards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures, and
that the area of each such minimum yard that would have been devoted to
perimeter yard landscaping and the amount of landscape material that would have
been required to be installed in the perimeter yard landscaping, if not
complying with the special provisions of this division (C), are provided
elsewhere on each of the affected lots as either additional foundation
landscaping, additional interior parking area landscaping or additional front
perimeter landscape yard landscaping, and documentary assurances are provided
on the final plat or by other legally binding instrument which binds the
adjoining lots to be developed in compliance with the special provisions of
this division allowing such minimum yards to be used for parking areas, loading
areas, interior drives or interior access drives subject to the provision of
such additional foundation landscaping area or additional interior parking area
landscaping.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Sixty feet or 5 stories; provided,
however, that the setback for that portion of any building, or structure which
is in excess of 35 feet shall be increased by 1 foot for each 1 foot of the
height of the building or structure above 35 feet until the maximum height of
the building or structure is allowed.
      (5)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (6)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (7)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (8)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (9)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (10)   Outdoor storage and operations. 
         (a)   Operations. All operations, servicing and processing (except
outdoor storage, off-street parking, and off-street loading) shall be conducted
within completely enclosed buildings.
         (b)   Storage.  All storage of materials or products shall be either:
            1.   Within completely enclosed buildings; or
            2.   Within a defined storage area in compliance with the
following:
               a.    Location of outdoor storage:
                  i.   Along limited access highways: shall not be located
within a minimum front yard; and
                  ii.   Along all other streets: shall not be located between
the front lot line and the established front building line.
               b.   Screening: outdoor storage areas shall be screened from
view from all lot lines by buildings or:
                  i.   A chain link, lattice, or similar type fencing with an
open space of 30% or greater, supplemented by a Type C Screening landscaping
(see §
152.187, Table, Note C for details) located between the edge of the outdoor
storage area and lot line; or
                  ii.   An ornamental, solid wall, architectural screen,
masonry, or similar type fence with an open space of less than 30%, including
entry/exit gates made of materials compatible with the fence, supplemented by a
Type A or B Screening landscaping (see §
152.187, Table, Note B for details) located between the edge of the outdoor
storage area and the lot line.
               c.   Height of fence: the height above grade of the fence shall
be at least 6 feet and shall not exceed 10 feet.
               d.   Height of outdoor storage: outdoor storage of materials or
products shall not exceed the height of the fence.
               e.   Surface of outdoor storage area: all outdoor storage areas
shall be surfaced with a durable, dust-free surface of concrete or asphalt
surface which meets or exceeds the minimum specifications prescribed by the
Town Council.
            (c)   Amount of outdoor storage. The total area devoted to outdoor
storage shall not exceed 20% of the gross floor area of all buildings on the
lot; provided, however, outdoor storage in excess of 20% of the gross floor
area of all buildings on the lot may be approved as a special exception use.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.01, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.141 GI - GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The GI - General Industrial District is established to provide
for development of manufacturing and processing facilities or facilities which
may require substantial amounts of outdoor storage or outdoor operations.
Permitted uses in this district tend to generate heavy traffic and require
extensive community facilities. Permitted uses in this district may require
extensive amounts of outdoor storage or outdoor operations. The permitted uses
provided for in this district should be separated from Residential Districts or
low intensity commercial/mixed use districts by less intense Industrial
Districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (2)   Special exception uses. See
Appendix A, Permitted Use Table.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
152.142.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
152.143.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot or industrial park shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage on a public street of 150 feet.
      (2)   Minimum yards and minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   Front: a minimum front yard and building setback of 30 feet
measured from the proposed right-of-way of all streets shall be provided along
all streets.
         (b)   Minimum side yard and setback: shall be provided from the lot
line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 10 feet.
            2.   Minimum side residential bufferyard: 100 feet; provided,
however, a minimum side residential bufferyard may be reduced to 50 feet
through the provision of additional landscaping in an amount equal to a Type B
Partial Screening landscaping being added to the required Type C Full Screening
landscaping required by this district (see §
152.187, Table, Notes B and C for details).
         (c)   Minimum rear yard and setback: shall be provided from the lot
line as follows:
            i.   Minimum rear yard: 10 feet.
            ii.   Minimum rear residential bufferyard: 100 feet, provided,
however, a minimum side residential bufferyard may be reduced to 50 feet
through the provision of additional landscaping in an amount equal to a Type B
Partial Screening landscaping being added to the required Type C Full Screening
landscaping required by this district (see §
152.187, Table, Notes B and C for details).
      (3)   Use of minimum yards and residential bufferyards. All minimum yards
and residential bufferyards shall be landscaped in compliance with the
requirements for perimeter yard landscaping as
set forth in §§
152.185 through
152.194 and shall remain free from structures except where expressly permitted
below:
         (a)   Minimum front yards may include: parking areas, loading areas,
interior access drives, or interior access driveways, provided that no portion
of the area may be located closer to the right-of-way than 25 feet; or signs as
regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall be otherwise maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (b)   Minimum front residential bufferyards may include: driveways; or
signs as regulated by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and shall otherwise be maintained as open space free from buildings or
structures;
         (c)   Minimum side and rear yards may include: interior access
driveways connecting to adjoining lots provided that the remainder of the yards
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures;
         (d)   Minimum side and rear residential bufferyards: shall be
landscaped with grass and shrubbery, trees, or hedge, or in combination with
other suitable ground cover materials and maintained as open space free from
buildings or structures;
         (e)   Minimum yards for lots within the same industrial park: along
all lot lines in common with other lots located within the same industrial
park: (see graphic below):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-80.jpg]
 
            1.   Intent. This provision is intended to provide more flexibility
in the use of a minimum side yard or rear yard on lots within an industrial
park when those minimum side yards or rear yards abut other interior lots in
the same industrial park. The use of yards along lot lines located around the
perimeter of the industrial park shall comply with the applicable use of side
yards and rear yards as specified in divisions (a) through (d) above.
               a.   Use of side yards on lots interior to an industrial park.
The portion of a minimum side yard on a lot interior to an industrial park:
                  i.   Located between the front lot line and minimum front
building setback line may include: driveways; or interior access driveways
connecting to adjoining lots; or
                  ii.   Located behind the minimum front building setback line
may include: parking areas; loading areas; interior access driveways; interior
access drives; trash containers; or outdoor storage; or
               b.   Use of rear yards on lots interior to an industrial park.
The portion of a minimum rear yard on a lot interior to an industrial park may
include parking areas, loading areas, interior access driveways, interior
access drives or outdoor storage;
            2.   Provided, however, that the remainder of the yards shall be
maintained as open space free from buildings or structures, and that the area
of each such minimum yard that would have been devoted to perimeter yard
landscaping and the amount of landscape material that would have been required
to be installed in such perimeter yard landscaping, if not complying with the
special provisions of this division (C), are provided elsewhere on each of the
affected lots as either additional foundation landscaping, additional interior
parking area landscaping or additional front perimeter landscape yard
landscaping, and documentary assurances are provided on the final plat or by
other legally binding instrument which binds the adjoining lots to be developed
in compliance with the special provisions of this division (C) allowing the
minimum yards to be used for parking areas, loading areas, interior drives or
interior access drives subject to the provision of such additional foundation
landscaping area or additional interior parking area landscaping.
      (4)   Maximum building height.  Unlimited; provided, however, that the
setback for that portion of any building or structure which is in excess of 35
feet shall be increased by 1 foot for each 1 foot of the height of the building
or structure above 35 feet.
      (5)   Landscaping. See §§
152.185 through
152.194.
      (6)   Lighting. See §§
152.210 through
152.215.
      (7)   Signs. See §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (8)   Parking. See §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (9)   Loading. See §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (10)   Outdoor storage and operations.
         (a)   Operations. All operations, servicing and processing located
within 300 feet of a Residential District boundary (except outside storage,
off-street parking and off-street loading) shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings.
         (b)   Storage.  All storage of materials or products shall be either:
            1.   Within completely enclosed buildings; or
            2.   Within a defined storage area in compliance with the
following:
               a.   Location of outdoor storage. Outdoor storage shall not be
permitted in any minimum front yard, minimum side yard, minimum rear yard,
minimum front residential bufferyard, minimum side residential bufferyard or
minimum rear residential bufferyard.
               b.   Screening. Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from
view from all lot lines by buildings, or:
                  i.   A chain link, lattice, or similar type fencing with an
open space of 30% or greater, supplemented by a Type C Screening landscaping
(see §
152.187, Table, Note C for details) located between the edge of the outdoor
storage area and lot line; or
                  ii.   An ornamental, solid wall, architectural screen,
masonry or similar type fence with an open space of less than 30%, including
entry/exit gates made of materials compatible with the fence, supplemented by a
Type B Screening landscaping (see §
152.187, Table, Note B for details) located between the edge of the outdoor
storage area and the lot line.
               c.   Height of fence. The height above grade of the fence shall
be at least 6 feet and shall not exceed 10 feet.
               d.   Height of outdoor storage.
                  i.   Within 300 feet of a Residential District: shall not
exceed the height of the fence; or
                  ii.   Three hundred feet or more from a Residential District:
may exceed the height of the fence.
         (c)   Amount of outdoor storage and operations. The total area devoted
to outdoor storage and operations shall not be limited, provided:
            1.   All regulations of this division (C)(10) are complied with;
and
            2.   Outdoor storage or operations in excess of 50% of the total
lot area shall be approved as a special exception use.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.02, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.142 ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory uses, buildings, and structures. Accessory uses,
buildings, or structures shall be permitted in all Industrial Districts;
provided, however, that the primary use which is supported by the accessory
use, building, or structure is a permitted use within the district to which a
lot is zoned.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall not be permitted on
a lot, out lot, integrated center, or industrial park prior to the erection of
a primary building on the lot, out lot, integrated center, or industrial park.
      (2)   By way of example only, some typical accessory uses, buildings, and
structures in the Industrial Districts are: fences, trash containers, and
recycling containers.
   (B)   Development standards for accessory uses, buildings, or structures in
all Industrial Districts.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall comply with all
development standards of the applicable district unless an exception is
specifically provided for in this section.
      (2)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall not encroach upon
any platted easements unless specifically authorized by the terms of the
easement or by written consent of the agency in whose favor the easement is
granted.
   (C)   Additional development standards for accessory uses, buildings, or
structures in any Industrial District. Accessory uses, buildings, or structures
permitted in any Industrial District shall also comply with the following
additional development standards:
      (1)   Residential uses. Accessory uses, buildings, or structures provided
for any legally established residential uses located in any Industrial District
shall comply with the provisions of §
152.083(C).
      (2)   Fences (including chain link, solid, architectural screen, lattice-
work, or masonry).
         (a)   Shall not exceed 6 feet in height above grade if located between
the front façade of the primary building and the front lot line;
         (b)   Shall not exceed 10 feet in height above grade in a required
side yard or a required rear yard;
         (c)   Shall not include any barbed, electric, razor, or other similar
type of security wire when located between the front façade of the primary
building and the front lot line; and
         (d)   Shall comply with the clear sight area requirements of this
chapter, §
152.020.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-82.jpg]
 
      (3)   Trash containers. Trash containers exceeding 36 cubic feet shall:
         (a)   Be screened on at least 3 sides by a building wall or a solid-
walled enclosure, not less than 6 feet in height nor more than 10 feet in
height above grade, equipped with an opaque screen gate, and any solid-walled
portion of the enclosure shall be provided with foundation landscaping as
specified in §§
152.185 through
152.194;
         (b)   Not be located between the front façade of the primary building
and the front lot line; and
         (c)   Not be located in any minimum front yard, minimum side yard,
minimum rear yard, minimum front residential bufferyard, minimum side
residential bufferyard or minimum rear residential bufferyard, unless
specifically listed as an authorized use of minimum yards in the applicable
district.
      (4)   Signs. Shall comply with the regulations of §§
152.230 through
152.236.
      (5)   Parking areas. Shall comply with the regulations of §§
152.250 through
152.258.
      (6)   Loading areas. Shall comply with the regulations of §§
152.270 through
152.277.
      (7)   Drive-through facilities. Shall be so designed that:
         (a)   Drive-through lanes do not conflict with the safe and efficient
flow of traffic into and out of required parking spaces or loading spaces;
         (b)   Drive-through lanes have a “bail out” capability for all
vehicles which have entered the drive-through lane;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-84.jpg]
 
         (c)   The minimum drive-through facility standards include:
            1.   A drive-through lane with a minimum width of 10 feet measured
from the furthest point of projection of a drive-through facility from the
building or structure; and
            2.   A “bail out” lane with a minimum width of 12 feet measured
from and running parallel to the full length of the drive-through lane.
         (d)   If a “bail out” lane also serves as an interior access drive
providing access to parking spaces, the “bail out” lane/interior access drive
shall be limited to a 1-way traffic pattern following the direction of the
drive-through lane;
         (e)   If a parking area is developed beyond the “bail out” lane, the
parking area shall be separated from the “bail out” lane by a curbed island
having a minimum width of 3 feet;
         (f)   Provide at least 5 waiting spaces including the first occurrence
of any ordering, pick-up or service facility; and
         (g)   Provide sufficient room for at least 1 waiting space after
exiting the last pick-up or service facility.
      (8)   Gasoline dispensers and pump island canopies. Gasoline dispensers
and pump island canopies shall:
         (a)   Not be located within any minimum front yard, side yard, rear
yard, front residential bufferyard, side residential bufferyard or rear
residential bufferyard unless specifically authorized in the “Use of Minimum
Yards and Residential Bufferyards” division of the applicable district; and
         (b)   Shall be provided with adequate on-site maneuverability so as to
avoid any interference with through traffic on any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.11(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.143 TEMPORARY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permits required. A temporary use, building, or structure which is in
compliance with the provisions of this section, shall be allowed on a lot or
out lot in any Industrial District. A temporary use, structure, or building
which will be converted into a permanent primary or accessory use after the
cessation of the temporary use shall be required to obtain an improvement
location permit prior the establishment of the use or the construction of any
structure or building. A temporary use, structure, or building which will be
removed from the site upon cessation of the temporary use shall comply with the
regulations contained in this section, and shall obtain an improvement location
permit.
   (B)   Permitted temporary uses, buildings, and structures.  By way of
example only, permitted temporary uses, buildings, and structures include
construction trailers and leasing offices.
   (C)   Duration.  Except as specifically provided otherwise in this section,
a temporary use, building, or structure shall be permitted for a period not to
exceed 1 year. Except as specifically provided otherwise in this section, the
improvement location permit, if required, may be renewed 1 or more times by the
Zoning Administrator, for good cause shown, for an additional period(s) not to
exceed a total of 3 years beyond the original expiration date.
   (D)   Compliance with development standards. Any temporary use, building, or
structure shall comply with all applicable development standards and setback
requirements in the district in which the temporary use, building, or structure
is located. Temporary construction trailers, freestanding leasing offices, and
other temporary uses which shall not be converted into a permanent primary or
accessory use, shall be exempt from the requirement to provide a hard surfaced
parking area.
   (E)   Cessation of use. All buildings, structures, or debris associated with
the temporary use shall be removed from the site immediately upon completion or
cessation of the temporary use or expiration of the time period set forth
above.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.11(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.144 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter or
established after the effective date of this chapter in any Industrial District
shall comply with the performance standards of the applicable municipal, state,
or federal regulations pertaining to: vibration; smoke, dust, and particulate
matter; noxious matter; odor; noise; heat; glare; or waste, and shall be
subject to enforcement action by the applicable municipal, state, or federal
agency responsible for monitoring and enforcing the regulations.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.11(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.145 ZONING VIOLATIONS IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following shall be deemed violations of this chapter and shall be
enforceable by the town as set forth in §§
152.405 through
152.413:
   (A)   The conduct of any activity in an Industrial District that is not
specifically enumerated as a permitted primary use or accessory use in that
district, and which activity has not been legally established by a currently
valid variance, special exception, or other approval grant;
   (B)   Failure to comply with district development standards, including but
not limited to landscaping, paving of parking areas, minimum parking space
requirements, trash dumpster enclosure, fencing, or screening requirements; or
   (C)   The failure to comply with the terms, provisions or conditions of: a
grant of variance or special exception; an approval of a development plan; an
approval of a conditional use district; or other approval grant authorized by
this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.11(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 154.146 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Additions along a legally established nonconforming setback.  
      (1)   The minimum front yard, minimum side yard, or minimum rear yard for
any legally established nonconforming building having a setback which is less
than that which is required by this chapter shall be allowed to expand 1 or
more times along such legally established nonconforming setback provided the
applicant can demonstrate that:
         (a)   All other applicable development standards, except the 1 legally
established nonconforming building setback to be expanded upon, are in
compliance with the requirements of the district;
         (b)   A minimum of 2 of the other applicable development standards
will be brought into compliance with the requirements of the district; or
         (c)   A minimum of 4 of the other applicable development standards
will be reduced as to their extent of non-conformity by the maximum extent
feasible given site constraints and such that, in the determination of the
Zoning Administrator, conditions on the lot will be improved.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (A), other applicable development
standards shall include the following divisions of each district: use of
minimum yards and residential bufferyards; maximum building height;
landscaping; lighting; signs; parking; loading; greenway connection; and
outdoor operations.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not be applicable to any
lot which includes a side residential bufferyard or a rear residential
bufferyard (i.e., abuts a Residential District on along a side lot line or a
rear lot line).
   (B)   Additional front setback provisions.
      (1)   Public streets. In the case where the thoroughfare plan does not
include a proposed right-of-way, or where the existing right-of-way is greater
than the proposed right-of-way, the existing right-of-way line shall be used
for setback measurement.
      (2)   Public streets and private streets.
         (a)   The minimum front yard and minimum building setback from the
right-of-way line of a private street shall be the same as for a local public
street in the applicable Industrial District.
         (b)   The setback provisions of this chapter are subject to the
following modification:
         In any block in any Industrial District contained in this chapter in
which an existing front yard setback is established by existing, legally
established buildings or structures on more than 60% of the total number of
lots within the same block face fronting on the same public street, the minimum
required front yard setback for any new building, structure or addition along
the block face shall be the average of the established front yards if the
dimension is less than the minimum front yard setback established by this
chapter.
      (3)   Any development permitted within a required front yard shall be
those specified in the “Use of Minimum Yards and Residential Bufferyards”
divisions of the applicable Industrial District.
   (C)   Setback regulations for laterally-supported extensions.
Notwithstanding any setback regulations of this chapter to the contrary,
laterally-supported extensions, such as canopies, sills, belt courses, eaves,
cornices, bay windows, roof overhangs or other ornamental features, may extend
a maximum of 12 inches into any minimum front yard, minimum side yard, or
minimum rear yard.
   (D)   Height regulations for roof mounted or roof piercing structures. The
following regulations shall apply to the roof mounted or roof piercing
structures in any Industrial District:
      (1)   Parapet walls may exceed the maximum building height, provided the
parapet wall does not exceed 4 feet in height above the roof line; and
      (2)   Roof mounted or roof piercing chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, mechanical penthouses, stacks, stage towers, scenery lofts, water
towers, radio or television antenna, ornamental towers, cupolas, domes,
steeples, and spires, may exceed the maximum building height, provided the
structures do not exceed 25 feet in height above the roof line.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.11(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.147 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL PRIVATE STREETS AND PRIVATE ALLEYS.
   See §
152.021.
(Ord. 1221, § 5.11(f), passed 1-26-2010)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 152.165 INTENT.
   (A)   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) District is designed and intended
to: encourage creativity and innovation in the design of developments; provide
for more efficient use of land; permit special consideration of property with
outstanding natural or topographical features; facilitate use of the most
appropriate construction techniques in the development of land; and provide for
any individual land use not otherwise specified elsewhere in this chapter. The
PUD District encourages imaginative uses of open space, promotes high standards
in design and construction, and furthers the purposes of the Comprehensive
Plan.
   (B)   The PUD District is not intended for the development of residential
subdivisions or other developments which are provided for as a matter of right
within any district of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 6(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.166 PERMITTED USES, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, AND MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.  
      (1)   Primary uses in the PUD District shall be any use or range of uses
specified in the PUD District ordinance establishing the district, either in
text form or as noted in the preliminary plan filed with the petition for zone
map change, or any combination thereof. Primary uses, by way of example, may
include any residential, commercial, or industrial land use, or any individual
land use or combination of land uses deemed appropriate for the real estate.
      (2)   Accessory uses, home occupations, or temporary uses, unless
otherwise specified in the petition for zone map change to the PUD District and
incorporated into the PUD District ordinance establishing the district, shall
be permitted in a manner customarily associated with the primary use specified
in the PUD District ordinance.
   (B)   Development standards.
      (1)   Development standards applicable to a PUD shall be those standards
specified in the PUD District ordinance establishing the district, either in
text form or as noted on the preliminary plan filed with the petition for zone
map change, or any combination thereof. Every petition for zone map change to
the PUD District shall specify development standards applicable to each
permitted use in the PUD and, at a minimum, shall adopt or include a variation
of each development standard that is applicable to each such use in the
district in which each use is first permitted. In any case in which an
applicable development standard has not been specified in the petition for zone
map change to the PUD District, the development standard shall be that which is
specified in the district in which the use is first permitted unless the
petition for zone map change to the PUD District contains: a statement that the
petitioner does not want an otherwise applicable development standard for any
permitted use in the PUD to be applicable; an alternate development standard;
and the statement and alternate development standard are included in the PUD
District ordinance establishing the district.
      (2)   Accessory uses, home occupations or temporary uses, unless
otherwise specified in the PUD District ordinance and the petition for zone map
change, shall be subject to the development requirements or development
standards specified in the district which imposes the highest standard for site
development on the associated primary use (i.e., minimum yards, minimum
bufferyards, landscaping, lighting, architectural and site design requirements,
and the like). If the petitioner does not want an otherwise applicable
development requirement or development standard for any accessory use, home
occupation or temporary use in the development to be applicable, then the
petition for zone map change shall contain a statement to that effect.
      (3)   Area requirements. Minimum area requirements: There shall be no
minimum area requirement for the filing of a petition for zone map change to
the PUD District; provided, however, for any petition which does not exceed the
following divisions (a) and (b), the petitioner shall file a statement with the
petition for zone map change to the PUD District as to why a PUD District is
required and how the proposed PUD District meets the intent of this section:
         (a)   In-fill development: 5 acres; and
         (b)   All other developments: 20 acres.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 6(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.167 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The complete review and approval process for a Planned Unit
Development consists of 3 elements:
         (a)   Concept plan review;
         (b)   Zone map change and preliminary plan approval; and
          (c)   Secondary approval.
      (2)   To facilitate the use of this PUD District, a petitioner may elect
to proceed with each element listed above separately or may elect to combine
certain elements for joint approval as set forth in division (D)(2), below. If
a petitioner elects to combine certain elements, all elements elected to be
combined shall be docketed before the Area Plan Commission for a joint hearing.
      (3)   If filed separately, the procedure for filing for approval of a
zone map change shall be the same as that required for any other petition for
zone map change before the Area Plan Commission, except as otherwise provided
for in this section. The procedure for filing for secondary approval is set
forth in this section.
   (B)   Filing of a concept plan for review by staff.
      (1)   The petitioner shall submit a concept plan, which may be
supplemented with a written description of the proposed PUD, for review by the
staff prior to filing a petition for zone map change to the PUD District.
      (2)   Staff shall review the proposed concept plan taking into
consideration information regarding the terrain of the site and any unique
natural features of the site. In doing so, the review by staff may include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Protection of unique topographical features on the site,
including, but not limited to, slopes, streams, natural water features,
floodways, floodplains, and regulated drains;
         (b)   Protection and preservation of wooded areas, individual trees of
significant size, wetlands, or other environmentally sensitive features;
         (c)   Development of common areas, open space or recreational areas
(passive or active) accessible to the residents or users of the PUD by way of
sidewalks, footpaths, or combined walkways/bikeways;
         (d)   A more efficient use of the land including the reduction of land
area disturbed for utility lines and motor vehicle access;
         (e)   Creation of innovative residential and business environments;
         (f)   Minimize the alteration of the natural site features through the
design and situation of individual lots, streets, and buildings;
         (g)   Diversity and originality in lot layout;
         (h)   Utilization of individual building designs which achieve an
enhanced relationship between the development and the land;
         (i)   The extent to which a project is not otherwise provided for by
any primary zoning district without significant variances of permitted use
regulations or development standards; and
         (j)   Relationship to surrounding properties.
      (3)   The Executive Director shall notify the petitioner of any staff
comments related to the design of the proposed concept plan submitted for
review within 15 business days of the submittal. Upon receipt of staff
comments, the petitioner may either: modify the proposed concept plan and
resubmit a revised concept plan for a second round of review by staff; or file
a petition for zone map change as set forth below.
      (4)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary,
neither the staff’s review of the proposed concept plan submitted for review
nor staff’s comments to the petitioner relating thereto shall be considered a
denial, approval, or decision concerning the proposed concept plan.
   (C)   Filing petition for zone map change.
      (1)   Petition. A PUD District ordinance petition shall contain a
preliminary plan that satisfies the requirements below, and shall specify in
either general terms or detailed terms the permitted uses and development
standards that will apply to the real property included in the petition.
      (2)   Detailed terms. A preliminary plan which includes a detailed
description of all development requirements that apply to the proposed PUD on
any of the site plans, building elevations, landscape plans, sign plans, or any
other plan required by this chapter in sufficient detail to fulfill the
requirements for the issuance of an improvement location permit, shall be
deemed to have expressed, in detailed terms, the development requirements that
apply.
      (3)   General terms.  All preliminary plans or submittals which do not
comply with the requirements above for detailed terms shall be deemed to have
expressed the development requirements that apply to the proposed PUD in
general terms only and shall require the secondary approval, as set forth
below, prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit.
      (4)   Preliminary plan. A preliminary plan shall satisfy the following
requirements:
         (a)   Preliminary plan contents:
            1.   A drawing, map, plan, or other graphic representation of the
overall development which:
               a.   Depicts the location of proposed land uses and maximum land
use densities; and
               b.   Expresses development standards in either general terms or
detailed terms.
            2.   Proposed layout of streets, open space, and other basic
elements of the development;
            3.   Proposals for handling traffic, parking, sewage disposal,
drainage, tree preservation, and other pertinent development features;
            4.   The current zoning of the area proposed to be developed as
well as the current zoning of the adjacent land;
            5.   A proposed breakdown of sections to be contained in the
overall development along with a statement as to the order and timing of
development;
            6.   All public and private streets and pedestrian ways within 200
feet of the site;
            7.   North arrow, written and graphic scale, general location map;
and
            8.   Percentage of site devoted to open space.
         (b)   The preliminary plan shall be drawn to a scale of not more than
1 inch=100 feet and shall be on plan sheets that shall not exceed 24 inches by
36 inches in size.
         (c)   Determination by the Area Plan Commission: In its determination
of the appropriateness of the proposed PUD and whether to recommend approval of
the zone map change to the Town Council, the Area Plan Commission shall pay
reasonable regard to the extent to which the proposal:
            1.   Accomplishes the intent set forth in §
152.165, above; and
            2.   Provides for the protection or provision of the site features
and amenities outlined in division (B), above.
   (D)   Preliminary plan approval and secondary approval.
      (1)   Preliminary plan approval. If the preliminary plan expresses
development standards in general terms, as described above, secondary approval
as set forth in division (F) of this section, below, shall be required prior to
the issuance of an improvement location permit for any development pursuant to
the PUD District ordinance.
      (2)   Combined preliminary plan approval and secondary approval. If the
preliminary plan expresses development standards in detailed terms, as
described above, the petitioner may also request secondary approval in
connection with the approval of the zone map change to the PUD District,
provided that any such approval shall be conditioned upon the Town Council
adopting the zone map change to the PUD District. The requirements for a
secondary approval are set forth in division (F), below. If the preliminary
plan expresses the development standards in detailed terms, as described above,
the PUD District ordinance must specify any plan documentation or supporting
information that must be supplied before an improvement location permit may be
issued for development of real property in the Planned Unit Development
District.
   (E)   Commitments, conditions or surety.
      (1)   Commitments. Commitments may be permitted or required of the owner
of the real property in connection with: a zone map change for a PUD District;
a secondary approval of a PUD; or a modification of permitted uses or
development requirements of a PUD, as set forth in §
152.366(D).
      (2)   Conditions. Conditions may be imposed on the approval of a PUD
District which are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the permitted
use, development standards and minimum requirements of the PUD District
ordinance.
      (3)   Surety. Bonds, letters of credit or other written assurance may be
required which are reasonably necessary to guarantee the timely completion of a
public improvement required by the proposed by the PUD District ordinance. The
bond, letter of credit, or other written assurance shall be satisfactory to the
Executive Director, shall run to the Board of Public Works and shall be
provided prior to the issuance of permits required for the public improvement.
   (F)   Secondary approval.
      (1)   Secondary approval required. Secondary approval is required in the
PUD District as a prerequisite to the issuance of an improvement location
permit for development of any real property in the district.
      (2)   Secondary approval. 
         (a)   Secondary approval authority is hereby delegated to the
Executive Director. The Executive Director shall have a period of not more than
15 business days in which to review the proposed secondary approval application
and either:
            1.   Render a decision of approval or denial concerning the
secondary approval; or
            2.   Request, in writing, additional information from the
applicant. If additional information is requested, the Executive Director shall
have an additional period of 15 business days to review the information from
the date the requested information is received.
         (b)   The Executive Director may seek the advice and comment of the
Executive Committee of the Area Plan Commission or other staff members, as
deemed appropriate, prior to making a decision.
         (c)   Any decision of the Executive Director under this chapter, may
be appealed by any interested party to the Area Plan Commission in accordance
with the procedures of §
152.171.
         (d)   If, in the sole discretion of the Executive Director, there are
questions regarding how the application for secondary approval fulfills the
intent of the PUD District ordinance or how the secondary approval expresses in
detailed terms the general terms approved as part of the preliminary plan and
zone map change to the PUD District, the Executive Director may refer the
proposed secondary approval to the Area Plan Commission for review and
determination.
      (3)   Proceedings/notice. The proceedings required for secondary approval
shall be the same as those required by this Zoning Ordinance for the review and
issuance of an improvement location permit.
      (4)   Supporting documentation. 
         (a)   Before the issuance of a secondary approval, the petitioner must
file an application requesting secondary approval and submit plans consisting
of the following:
            1.   Area map insert showing the general location of the proposed
development referenced to major streets and section lines;
            2.   Location map showing the names of all metes and bounds
property owners, boundary lines of recorded subdivisions, zoning, and land uses
of adjacent properties;
            3.   Proposed name of the PUD;
            4.   Legal description of the real estate;
            5.   Boundary lines of the proposed PUD;
            6.   Location and name of all existing and proposed public or
private streets, roads, access easements, and rights-of-way within 200 feet of
the real estate;
            7.   Location of all existing and proposed utility facilities and
easements, including, but not limited to: sanitary sewer, water, storm water
management, electric, gas, telephone and cable within 200 feet of the real
estate;
            8.   Layout, number, and dimension of all lots and out lots with
zoning setback lines;
            9.   Location, delineation, and elevation of all floodway and
floodway fringe areas within the boundaries of the PUD;
            10.   Drainage plan;
            11.   Landscape plan;
            12.   Sign plan;
            13.   An erosion control plan for all areas of site disturbance;
            14.   Topographic contour every 2 feet superimposed upon the
proposed site plan portion of the site covered by the submitted plans;
            15.   Proposed elevation of all building pads within the proposed
development;
            16.   All improvements to street system, on-site and off-site;
            17.   Sidewalk plan or alternate plan for walkways or other
pedestrian ways;
            18.   Plans and specifications for all infrastructure improvements
required or proposed in the PUD;
            19.   Areas reserved for park, conservation, wetland, common area,
lake, or other similar uses;
            20.   Proposed covenants, conditions, and restrictions, if any;
            21.   The character and approximate density of all proposed uses
and structures in the plan area;
            22.   Any other information specified elsewhere in this chapter as
a prerequisite to the issuance of an improvement location permit; and
            23.   Any other information requested in writing by the Executive
Director or Area Plan Commission in connection with the preliminary plan
approval or requested in writing by the Executive Director within 15 business
days of filing.
         (b)   The Area Plan Commission or Executive Director, during secondary
approval review, shall specify any additional plan documentation or supporting
information beyond that required by this division (F), which must be supplied
before an improvement location permit may be issued for the development of any
real estate located in the PUD District.
      (5)   Required findings. 
         (a)   The Area Plan Commission or Executive Director may issue a
secondary approval only upon a finding that:
            1.   The plans submitted for secondary approval satisfy the
permitted uses and development standards specified in the PUD District
ordinance establishing the PUD District;
            2.   The plans submitted for secondary approval accomplish the
intent set forth in §
152.165, above; and
            3.   The plans submitted for secondary approval provide for the
protection or provision of the site features and amenities outlined in division
(B), above.
         (b)   Written findings of each determination to approve or disapprove
a secondary approval. If the Area Plan Commission makes a determination
regarding a secondary approval, the written findings shall be signed by the
President of the Area Plan Commission. If the Executive Director makes a
determination regarding a secondary approval, the written findings shall be
signed by the Executive Director.
         (c)   The secondary approval and written findings, upon approval,
shall be sealed with the Seal of the Area Plan Commission and retained in the
office of the Area Plan Commission to be used in its continuing administration
of the PUD.
(Ord. 1221, § 6(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.168 MODIFICATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN OR SECONDARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Minor modifications to a preliminary plan or secondary approval which
has already received approval from the Area Plan Commission or the Executive
Director and which do not involve: the designation of additional land uses;
and/or an encroachment into any drainage easement, regulated drain setback, or
floodplain, may be authorized by the Executive Director without a public
hearing in its continuing administration of the PUD if, in the determination of
the Executive Director, the requested minor modifications do not adversely
impact the purpose or intent of the overall development.
   (B)   If the Executive Director determines that the proposed modification is
of such a nature as to adversely impact the purpose or intent of the overall
development, or if the proposed modification includes: the designation of
additional land uses; and/or an encroachment into any drainage easement,
regulated drain setback, or floodplain, petitioner shall be required to file a
new petition for zone map change.
(Ord. 1221, § 6(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.169 SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   The process for the approval and recording of a secondary plat for any
development in a PUD approved pursuant to this subchapter shall be issued in a
manner consistent with that for any other subdivision within the town as set
forth in the Subdivision Control Ordinance for the town and with any additional
requirements or commitments entered into in connection with the approval of the
preliminary plan pursuant to this subchapter. The approval and recording of a
secondary plat is required prior to the issuance of an improvement location
permit for any improvements on a lot.
(Ord. 1221, § 6(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.170 MAINTENANCE OF COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   In those PUD Districts in which open space, common areas, or recreation
areas are provided for the use and enjoyment of residents or users of the PUD
District, the petitioner shall file documentary assurances that the permanent
dedication and continuous maintenance of open space, common areas, or
recreation areas shall be made in accordance with the approved preliminary plan
and secondary approval, and that the open space, common areas, and recreation
areas shall be made available to the residents and users of the overall
development in the PUD at a reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge.
Such documentary assurances shall be incorporated into the secondary plat that
is recorded in the office of the St. Joseph County Recorder or otherwise
provided for through legally binding perpetual agreements as approved by the
Area Plan Commission and the Town Council. The open space shall perpetually run
with the PUD and shall not be developed or separated from the overall
development in the PUD at a later date (unless no development of any portion of
the PUD which is benefitted by the open space, common areas or recreation areas
has occurred and the entire area subject to the PUD is presented for zone map
change).
(Ord. 1221, § 6(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.171 APPEALS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DECISIONS.
   (A)   Appeal process. Any order, requirement, decision, or determination by
the Executive Director regarding a secondary approval, or a modification of a
preliminary plan or secondary approval, may be appealed to the Area Plan
Commission by any person claiming to be adversely affected by that order,
requirement, decision, or determination.
   (B)   Procedures. The procedures for such an appeal are as follows.
      (1)   Every appeal shall be filed within 30 days from the order,
requirement, decision, or determination.
      (2)   All appeals shall be determined by the Area Plan Commission at a
public hearing for which:
         (a)   The party bringing the appeal has provided stamped envelopes for
the owner of the real estate and all abutting property owners in accordance
with the Area Plan Commission Resolution No. 168-06, as the same may be amended
from time to time, regarding notice for rezoning petitions; and
         (b)   Notice has been mailed to the owner of the real estate and all
abutting property owners by the Area Plan Commission.
      (3)   The Area Plan Commission hearing shall be de novo, in the same
manner as though the application was originally filed with the Area Plan
Commission.
      (4)   The decision of the Area Plan Commission with respect to a
secondary approval, or a modification of a preliminary plan or secondary
approval, shall be a final decision that may be reviewed only by certiorari
procedures as provided in I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. 1221, § 6(g), passed 1-26-2010)
LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
§ 152.185 INTENT.
   Landscaping is an essential element of the site design process and is an
important feature in promoting the public health, safety, comfort, general
welfare and the quality of life of the town. Landscaping is intended to: reduce
the negative impacts of higher intensity land uses on less intense adjacent
land uses; provide visual and noise buffering between higher intensity
districts and less intense districts; lessen the impact of development on the
environment by reducing glare and heat buildup; promote energy conservation;
and break up large expanses of paved areas so as to reduce impervious surface
area, storm water runoff, and the level of pollutants from non-point sources.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 8, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.186 GENERAL LANDSCAPING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. Within the town, all new developments and all additions
to existing development (i.e., building additions, parking area expansions, and
the like) shall provide landscaping as required by this subchapter for the new
development or addition.
   (B)   Location of landscaping. Required landscaping areas shall consist of 4
locations on a site:
      (1)   Perimeter yards or residential bufferyards, as applicable;
      (2)   Foundation landscaping;
      (3)   Interior landscaping of off-street parking areas; and
      (4)   Perimeter screening off-street parking areas.
   (C)   Types of landscape screening. Three types of landscape screening are
provided for in this subchapter and are intended to provide a progression of
screening options suitable to a variety of landscaping and buffering needs
between land uses and districts. The 3 types of landscape screening are:
      (1)   Type A: Open. The Type A: Open landscaping creates a pleasant
visual experience but provides a minimal visual or sound barrier. Therefore,
Type A: Open landscaping is intended for use on lots where the district of the
abutting lots includes permitted uses with similar intensities, lights, sounds,
and regular operations and would have minimal, if any, negative impact on
adjacent properties. Type A: Open landscaping requires a majority of the
landscape materials to be of a shade tree variety with flexibility to add
color, interest, or heavier visual screening, if desired;
      (2)   Type B: Partial Screening. The Type B: Partial Screening
landscaping creates a partial visual and sound barrier and is intended for use
on lots where the district of the abutting lots includes permitted uses that
may be similar in land use intensity, but may still contain lights, sounds, and
regular operations which may adversely impact adjacent properties. Type B:
Partial Screening landscaping requires the use of evergreen trees to provide
year-round buffering while allowing flexibility to add color and interest with
deciduous trees or shrubs/hedge plants; and
      (3)   Type C: Full Screening. The Type C: Full Screening landscaping
shall be designed to create a substantial visual barrier from grade to at least
6 feet above grade at time of planting. Type C: Full Screening landscaping
should also provide a sound barrier effect. Type C: Full Screening landscaping
is intended to be placed on lots in higher intensity districts which abut lots
located in lesser intense districts that may be adversely impacted by the
lights, sounds, and regular operations of the higher intensity district. Type
C: Full Screening landscaping requires significant use of evergreen trees to
provide year-round buffering while allowing flexibility to add color and
interest with deciduous trees or shrubs/hedge plants. Any evergreen species
that drops its lower branches (e.g., white pines, and the like) shall not be
permitted as a “evergreen” tree in a Type C: Full Screening landscape area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-86.jpg]
 
   (D)   Utility easement landscaping. In those instances where overhead
utilities are located within required yards or required residential
bufferyards, plant material selections shall be limited to small growing trees
which typically do not exceed 25 feet in height at maturity. Appropriate
utility easement plant materials include: ornamental trees, such as the redbud,
dogwood, and crabapple; or evergreen trees (narrow spread), such as the emerald
green arborvitae. See §
152.194 for additional limitations.
   (E)   Live vegetation. All trees and shrubs required by this subchapter
shall be living vegetation.
   (F)   Ground cover. Ground cover within landscape areas may consist of:
grasses; preserved existing natural vegetation (i.e., thickets); or mulch,
chipped bark, or other natural forms of ground cover. Loose stone, rock or
gravel may be used as a landscaping accent, but shall not exceed 20% of the
area of the required landscape area in which it is used.
   (G)   Alternate landscape plan approval. The Zoning Administrator may
approve alternate landscape materials or landscape design options as set forth
in §
152.194.
   (H)   Man-made elements. Landscaping may consist, in part, of walls, berms,
and fences. When used, these elements shall be combined with live vegetation
per the requirements of §
152.194.
   (I)   Credit for preservation of existing trees, vegetation and man-made
elements. It is highly encouraged that existing landscaping elements be
considered for incorporation into the overall landscape requirements. Credit is
provided per §
152.194.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.187 LANDSCAPING OF REQUIRED PERIMETER YARDS AND RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARDS.
   (A)   Front yard and front residential bufferyard landscaping in all
Commercial/Town Center Districts, Industrial Districts, Residential Districts
for multifamily dwelling. The front yard of any lot located in any Commercial/
Town Center District, Industrial District, or Residential Districts for
multifamily dwellings and which yard is not occupied by improvements permitted
in the division “Use of Minimum Yards and Residential Bufferyards” in the
applicable district shall be landscaped with trees as provided below and
appropriate ground cover:
      (1)   Deciduous shade trees. A minimum of 1 shade tree planted for every
40 feet of the applicable lot line. The trees may be evenly spaced at 40 feet
on center or grouped together; provided however, in no case shall spacing
between trees exceed 80 feet; or
      (2)   Deciduous ornamental trees. A minimum of 1 ornamental tree planted
for every 25 feet of the applicable lot line. The trees may be evenly spaced at
25 feet on center or grouped together; provided however, in no case shall
spacing between trees exceed 50 feet.
   (B)   Side residential bufferyard and rear residential bufferyard
landscaping in all Commercial/Town Center Districts, Industrial Districts, and
Residential Districts for special exception uses. The side residential
bufferyard or rear residential bufferyard located in a Commercial/Town Center
District; Industrial District; or Residential District occupied by a special
exception use, and which is not occupied by improvements permitted in the
division “Use of Minimum Yards and Residential Bufferyards” in the applicable
district, shall consist of either Type A: Open, Type B: Partial Screening, or
Type C: Full Screening as specified below and in
Table 152.187: Side and Rear Residential Bufferyard Landscaping.
   (C)   Residential bufferyards in the R1 Single Family Residential Districts,
R2 Single and 2 Family Residential District, and MF Multifamily District for
permitted nonresidential uses. Landscaping
required in any portion of a front residential bufferyard, side residential
bufferyard or rear residential bufferyard which is not occupied by improvements
permitted in the division “Use of Minimum Yards and Residential Bufferyards” in
the applicable district, shall consist of Type A: Open.
Table 152.187: Side and Rear Residential Bufferyard Landscaping
Zoning of Adjacent Property Zoning of Subject Property
                            SE(1) OB LB CB TCD LI GI PUD
Table 152.187: Side and Rear Residential Bufferyard Landscaping
Zoning of Adjacent Property Zoning of Subject Property
                            SE(1) OB LB CB TCD LI GI PUD
R1                          B     B  B  B  B   C  C  (2)
R2                          B     B  B  B  B   C  C  (2)
MF                          A     B  B  B  B   C  C  (2)
PUD (3)                     B     B  B  B  B   C  C  (2)
(1)   Special exception use located in a Residential District; or other
Special Use Districts.
(2)   Landscaping may be Type A: Open. Type B: Partial Screening or Type
C: Full Screening and shall be determined as part of the review and
determination of the Planned Unit Development.
(3)    Residential portion of a PUD.
A -   Type A: Open landscaping. See division (A), above.
B -   Type B: Partial Screening landscaping shall contain a minimum of 2
evergreen trees for every 25 feet of the length of a lot line which abuts
a Residential District or a residential portion of a PUD District. The
trees shall be evenly spaced.
C -   Type C: Full Screening landscaping shall contain a minimum of 4
evergreen trees for every 30 feet of the length of a lot line which abuts
a Residential District or a residential portion of a PUD District. The
trees shall be evenly spaced in a staggered double row where the rows are
not more than 12.5 feet apart.
 
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.188 FOUNDATION LANDSCAPING.
   Foundation landscaping shall be provided for all new buildings and building
additions in all districts (except for the following: buildings in the TCD -
Town Center District; and single family dwellings or 2 family dwellings) in
compliance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Foundation landscaping shall be applicable to any elevation of a new
building or building addition which is:
      (1)   Over 35 feet in width; and
      (2)   Includes the main or primary customer entrance or is oriented
toward a front yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-88.jpg]
 
   (B)   (1)   When required, foundation landscaping shall be provided at a
rate of:
         (a)   One shade tree for every 50 feet of width of the applicable
elevation;
         (b)   One ornamental tree or 1 evergreen tree for every 35 feet of
width of the applicable elevation; or
         (c)   Ten hedge plants or shrubs for every 50 feet of width of the
applicable elevation.
      (2)   The above rates of foundation landscaping may be combined or
prorated, as necessary, based upon the length of the applicable elevation.
   (C)   Foundation landscaping areas shall maintain a minimum dimension of 6
feet in the smallest dimension, with a minimum of 36 square feet of foundation
landscaping area provided for each tree and for every 2 hedge plants or shrubs.
   (D)   Location: foundation landscaping areas shall be located along or
adjacent to each applicable building elevation; provided, however, where a
portion of the building elevation is devoted to pedestrian ingress/egress,
vehicular ingress/egress, loading or drop-off zones, foundation landscaping
areas may be aggregated into 1 or more locations along or abutting the building
elevation.
   (E)   Relationship to buildings: foundation landscaping areas shall be
located:
      (1)   Adjacent to the building; or
      (2)   So as to begin within 15 feet of the building (i.e., to allow for a
walkway or similar improvements adjacent to the building).
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.189 INTERIOR OFF-STREET PARKING AREA LANDSCAPING.
   All new surface, off-street parking areas containing 30 parking spaces or
more, and all expanded surface off-street parking areas which are increased by
30 parking spaces or more, whether the increase occurs at 1 time or in
successive stages, shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   All such off-street parking areas shall include at least 1 required
interior landscape island for every 15 parking spaces (or fraction thereof), or
5,000 square feet of off-street parking area, whichever yields the greater
number.
   (B)   Each required interior landscape island shall measure a minimum of 8
feet by 18 feet.
   (C)   Each required interior landscape island shall contain a minimum of 1
deciduous shade tree, 1 deciduous ornamental tree, or 1 evergreen tree.
   (D)   Interior landscape islands shall be located at the end of parking bays
so as to define vehicular and pedestrian traffic patterns.
   (E)   All trees shall comply with the size at time of planting as indicated
in
Table 152.191: Minimum Size at Time of Planting.
   (F)   Area devoted to interior landscape islands shall be in addition to any
required perimeter yard landscaping, foundation landscaping, or parking area
screening required by this subchapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-90.jpg]
 
   (G)   Off-street parking areas shall include areas used for the parking or
display or automobiles, boats, truck, or farm equipment associated with a
dealership or leasing business.
   (H)   Off-street parking areas shall not include areas used for semi-truck
loading areas, semi-truck maneuvering areas, and semi-truck parking areas.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.190 OFF-STREET PARKING AREA SCREENING.
   (A)   The regulations of this section shall apply to all new surface, off-
street parking areas, and expanded surface off-street parking areas for any use
except a single family dwelling or 2 family dwelling.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-92.jpg]
 
   (B)   In addition to perimeter yard landscaping, foundation landscaping, and
interior parking area landscaping, if an off-street parking area is located:
between a front building line and a front lot line; between a side building
line and any required side residential bufferyard; or between a rear building
line and any required rear residential bufferyard, the edge of the parking area
facing the front lot line, side residential bufferyard, or rear residential
bufferyard shall be screened by a compact row of shrubs/hedge plants planted 3
feet on-center across the front of the parking area located between the front
lot line, side residential bufferyard, or rear residential bufferyard and the
edge of the parking area. Minimum planting size shall meet the requirements of
Table 152.191 for hedge plants/shrubs, and be maintained at a maximum allowable
growth height of 36 inches.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.191 MINIMUM PLANT MATERIAL SIZES AT TIME OF PLANTING.
   All plant materials specified by this subchapter shall comply with the
minimum sizes at time of planting as specified in
Table 152.191: Minimum Size at Time of Planting.
Table 152.191: Minimum Size at Time of Planting
Plant Category Minimum Size
Table 152.191: Minimum Size at Time of Planting
Plant Category                         Minimum Size
Deciduous shade tree (a.k.a. Overstory 2-1/2 in. caliper at 6 in. above the
tree)                                  ground
Deciduous ornamental tree (a.k.a.      1-1/2 in. caliper at 6 in. above the
Understory tree)                       ground
Evergreen tree                         6 ft. high
Evergreen tree (narrow spread)*        4 ft. high
Hedge plants/shrubs                    24 in. high
*    Evergreen tree (narrow spread), such as arborvitae, may only be used as an
alternate plant material subject to the provisions of §
152.194.
 
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.192 INSTALLATION OF LANDSCAPING.
   All landscaping required by this subchapter shall be installed prior to the
issuance of a final certificate of occupancy for the use on the real estate. If
seasons, weather conditions, or other conditions beyond the applicant’s control
create a situation which is not appropriate for the installation of landscaping
immediately prior to the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy, the
Zoning Administrator may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy pending the
installation of landscaping required by this subchapter not later than 3 months
after the start of the next planting season after the use of the real estate is
commenced. The start of planting seasons shall be March 15 and August 15 of
each year.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(g), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.193 MAINTENANCE OF LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   The owner shall be responsible for the replacement of any required
planting which is removed or dies after the date of planting. The replacement
shall occur within 3 months after the start of the next planting season.
   (B)   Failure to maintain required landscape areas shall constitute a
violation of this chapter enforceable under the provisions of §§
152.405 through
152.413.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(h), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.194 ALTERNATE LANDSCAPE PLAN APPROVAL.
   The Zoning Administrator, upon request by an applicant, shall have the
authority to approve an alternate landscape plan prepared in accordance with
the following requirements:
   (A)   Redistribution of plant materials. The Zoning Administrator may
approve a redistribution of plant materials required for perimeter yard
landscaping to other locations on the lot, or, a redistribution of plant
materials required for a foundation landscaping area to other locations on the
lot. The Zoning Administrator shall not have the authority to modify the
landscape requirements of this subchapter pertaining to required residential
bufferyards.
   (B)   Credit for preservation of existing trees and vegetation.  In order to
encourage the preservation of existing trees and vegetation, the Zoning
Administrator may approve a preservation landscape plan which utilizes the
designation of 1 or more “Tree Save Areas” in lieu of new plantings within a
required yard, a required residential bufferyard, a required foundation
landscaping area, or an interior parking area island. The preservation
landscape plan shall:
      (1)   Demonstrate that sufficient trees or vegetation shall be preserved
to equal or exceed the level of screening required by the basic provisions of
this subchapter; and
      (2)   Provide that, in the event trees designated for saving in the “Tree
Save Area” are damaged or die within 3 years of completion of construction on
the site, replacement trees shall be planted in the designated “Tree Save Area”
sufficient to provide landscaping which is, at a minimum, equivalent to the
minimum requirements of this subchapter for new plantings.
   (C)   Alternatives for front yard, side yard, and rear yards in all
Commercial/Town Center Districts, Industrial Districts, Residential Districts
for multifamily dwellings and along a limited access highway. In order to
provide flexibility and creativity in landscape designs, the Zoning
Administrator may approve the following plant substitutions in a required front
yard, side yard, or rear yard.
      (1)   Hedge plants or shrubs may be substituted for a maximum of 25% of
the required number of shade trees (rounded down to the nearest whole number)
at a rate of 10 hedge plants or shrubs for each shade tree so replaced.
      (2)   Hedge plants or shrubs may be substituted for a maximum of 25% of
the required number of ornamental trees (rounded down to the nearest whole
number) at a rate of 6 hedge plants or shrubs for each ornamental tree so
replaced.
      (3)   Evergreen trees may be substituted for ornamental trees at a rate
of 1 evergreen tree for each ornamental tree so replaced.
      (4)   Evergreen trees may be substituted for shade trees at a rate of 3
evergreen trees for every 2 shade trees so replaced.
      (5)   Ornamental trees and shade trees may be substituted with each other
at a rate of 3 ornamental trees for every 2 shade trees.
      (6)   Evergreen trees (narrow spread) may be substituted for evergreen
trees at a rate of 3 evergreen trees (narrow spread) for each evergreen tree.
   (D)   Residential bufferyard landscaping alternatives. In order to provide
flexibility and creativity in landscape designs, the Zoning Administrator may
approve the following plant substitutions in a residential bufferyard.
      (1)   Hedge plants or shrubs may be substituted for a maximum of 10% of
the required number of evergreen trees (rounded down to the nearest whole
number) at a rate of 10 hedge plants or shrubs for each evergreen tree so
replaced.
      (2)   Ornamental trees may be substituted for a maximum of 10% of the
required number of evergreen trees (rounded down to the nearest whole number)
at a rate of 1 ornamental tree for each evergreen tree so replaced.
      (3)   Shade trees may be substituted for a maximum of 10% of the required
number of evergreen trees (rounded down to the nearest whole number) at a rate
of 1 shade tree for each evergreen tree so replaced.
      (4)   Evergreen trees (narrow spread) may be substituted for a maximum of
10% of the required number of evergreen trees (rounded down to the nearest
whole number) at a rate of 4 evergreen trees (narrow spread) for each evergreen
tree.
      (5)   In no case shall the total combined percentage of hedge plants or
shrubs, shade trees, ornamental trees, or evergreen trees (narrow spread) which
are substituted for evergreen trees exceed 25%.
   (E)   Foundation landscape alternatives. In order to provide flexibility and
creativity in landscape designs, the Zoning Administrator may approve a
foundation landscape plan which includes any combination of shade trees,
ornamental trees, evergreen trees, or hedge plants/shrubs, provided that the
total amount of plant materials along the building remains proportional to the
base requirements of §
152.188(B).
   (F)   Parking area screening alternatives. In order to provide flexibility
and creativity in landscape designs, the Zoning Administrator may approve a
parking area screening plan which includes hedge plants or shrubs in
combination with an ornamental or decorative fence, a masonry wall, or an
earthen berm, provided that:
      (1)   Between a front building line and a front lot line:
         (a)   The ornamental or decorative fence or masonry wall is not less
than 24 inches in height nor more than 36 inches in height, with an open space
percentage equal to or less than 70%; or
         (b)   The earthen berm is not less than 24 inches in height nor more
than 36 inches in height; or
      (2)   Between a side building line and any required side residential
bufferyard or between a rear building line and any required rear residential
bufferyard:
         (a)   The ornamental or decorative fence or masonry wall is not less
than 3 feet in height nor more than:
            1.   Six feet in height if the open space of the fence is less than
20%; or
            2.   Ten feet in if the open space of the fence is 20% or greater;
or
         (b)   The earthen berm has a minimum height of not less than 4 feet
and a maximum height not to exceed 10 feet; and
      (3)   The total number of shrubs/hedge plants shall not be reduced by
more than 50% of the number of shrubs/hedge plants required in §
152.190, above.
   (G)   Fence, wall, or berm alternatives. In order to provide flexibility and
creativity in landscape designs, the Zoning Administrator may approve a fence,
wall, or berm installed in compliance with the following regulations as a
substitute for up to 50% of the number of shade trees, ornamental trees or
evergreen trees required to be installed in a perimeter yard or residential
bufferyard pursuant to §
152.187.
      (1)   Fence or wall in a front yard or front residential bufferyard. An
ornamental, decorative fence or masonry wall may be used in conjunction with
the landscaping required in a front yard, front residential bufferyard, or in a
Residential District for a special exception use, provided the fence or wall
used in a front yard shall:
         (a)   Maintain a minimum height of 3 feet with a maximum open space of
20%;
         (b)   Not exceed 3 feet in height if the open space of the fence is
less than 20%; or
         (c)   Not exceed 4 feet in height if the open space of the fence is
less than 50% but greater than 20%.
      (2)   Fence or wall in a side yard, rear yard, side residential
bufferyard, rear residential bufferyard, or in Residential Districts for
special exception uses. An ornamental, decorative fence or masonry wall may be
used in conjunction with the landscaping in a required side yard, rear yard,
side residential bufferyard, rear residential bufferyard or in a Residential
District for a special exception use, provided the fence or wall shall not
exceed:
         (a)   Maintain a minimum height of 6 feet with a maximum open space of
20%;
         (b)   Six feet in height if the open space of the fence is less than
20%; and/or
         (c)   Ten feet in height in any Commercial/Town Center District or
Industrial District if the open space of the fence is less than 50% but greater
than 20% or greater.
      (3)   Berm regulations.
         (a)   Berm in a front yard or front residential bufferyard. An
undulating earthen berm, may be used in conjunction with the landscaping
required in a front yard, front residential bufferyard or in a Residential
District for a special exception use, provided the berm shall have a maximum
height not to exceed:
            1.   Residential District or Commercial/Town Center District: 3
feet; or
            2.   Industrial District: 6 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-94.jpg]
 
         (b)   Berm in a side yard, rear yard, side residential bufferyard, or
rear residential bufferyard. An undulating earthen berm may be used in
conjunction with the landscaping in a required side yard, rear yard, side
residential bufferyard, rear residential bufferyard, or in a Residential
District for a special exception use, provided the berm shall have a minimum
height of not less than 4 feet and a maximum height not to exceed 10 feet.
         (c)   Construction of berm. A berm utilized as a landscaping element
shall be constructed in accordance with the following regulations:
            1.   Each berm shall have a minimum crown width of 2 feet;
            2.   Each berm shall have a side slope of not greater than 3 feet
horizontal to 1 foot vertical (3:1);
            3.   Each berm shall be planted and covered with live vegetation;
and
            4.   A retaining wall may be used on the side of the berm facing
away from the public right-of-way or away from the side lot line or rear lot
line.
         (d)   General regulations for a fence, wall, or berm. A fence, wall,
or berm may be used as an element of a landscape plan subject to the following
regulations.
            1.   Location of fence, wall, or berm.  A fence, wall, or berm
shall be located in such a manner as to not interfere with any regulations of
clear sight area requirements in §
152.020.
            2.   Design of fence, wall, or berm. A fence, wall, or berm shall
be designed to not interfere with any walkway or pedestrian/bikeway system
serving the site.
   (H)   Interior landscape island design alternatives. The Zoning
Administrator may approve a design in which the area devoted to individual
interior landscape islands may be aggregated into 1 or more larger landscape
islands. When aggregated into 1 or more larger landscape islands, such larger
landscape islands shall, at a minimum, include the number of trees and area of
landscaping as required for individual interior landscape islands, and shall
function to: preserve existing trees; create boulevard treatments; create
landscape features; create common open space areas for passive recreational
activities; or define vehicular and pedestrian traffic patterns.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-96.jpg]
 
   (I)   Appeals. If the Zoning Administrator disapproves of a proposed
alternative landscape plan, the applicant may, within 5 business days, appeal
the Zoning Administrator’s decision by filing an administrative appeal with the
Board of Zoning Appeals, stating the reasons and justification for the appeal.
The petition shall be filed consistent with the provisions of §
152.367 and any applicable Rules of Procedure.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.01(i), passed 1-26-2010)
LIGHTING REGULATIONS
§ 152.210 INTENT.
   The lighting regulations contained in this subchapter are intended to
provide for the erection, design, or placement of outdoor light fixtures which:
provide for illumination levels on individual lots which are adequate for the
safe and efficient movement of individuals or vehicles to and from a lot and
within a lot (i.e., areas that are dangerous if unlit, such as stairs,
intersections, or changes in grade); are designed to protect against the
spillover of light onto abutting properties which may negatively impact
occupants of abutting properties; and are designed to protect against
objectionable glare onto public rights-of-way which may impair the vision of
motorists.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 8.02, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.211 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All outdoor light fixtures on a lot shall comply with the following
regulations:
   (A)   Applicability. The lighting regulations contained in this subchapter,
unless specifically stated otherwise, are applicable only to any: Residential
District for a multifamily project or any special exception use; Commercial/
Town Center District; Industrial District; Planned Unit Development District;
or special use district contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Minimum setback. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the
contrary for the “Use of Minimum Yards” or “Use of Minimum Yards and
Residential Bufferyards” for any district, a freestanding outdoor light fixture
may be located within a required front yard, side yard, rear yard, front
residential bufferyard, side residential bufferyard, or rear residential
bufferyard, provided that the freestanding outdoor light fixture is located
adjacent to the interior edge of the yard or residential bufferyard and
adjacent to a permitted driveway, parking area, interior access drive, interior
access driveway, or other outdoor use area requiring illumination.
   (C)   Lighting standards. Outdoor light fixtures shall comply with the
standards set forth in
Table 152.211: Lighting Standards.
   (D)   Mounting of fixtures (except in Industrial Districts). Full cutoff,
cutoff and semi-cutoff outdoor light fixtures shall be mounted parallel to the
ground and shall utilize a rigid mounting arm with no built-in uptilt and no
adjustment feature.
   (E)   Height of fixtures. All outdoor light fixtures used to illuminate a
particular area on a lot (i.e., a parking area; a loading area; or an entry
way, sidewalk or walkway areas) shall, within those areas, be of uniform size,
design, and height.
 
Table 152.211: Lighting Standards
District      Type of Fixture Maximum Combined Height of Pole Maximum Wattage
                              and Base
              Non-cutoff (1)  20 ft.                          100
All districts Semi-cutoff     30 ft.                          400
              Cutoff          35 ft.                          400
              Full cutoff     40 ft.                          1,000
(1)   Non-cutoff outdoor light fixtures shall be limited to locations along
walkways, driveways, interior access drives, interior access driveways and
outdoor seating areas.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-98.jpg]
 
   (F)   Power supply. Outdoor light fixtures located on light poles shall be
provided power by underground wiring.
   (G)   Wall pack lights. Wall pack outdoor light fixtures shall be subject to
the following regulations:
      (1)   Except in Industrial Districts, wall pack outdoor light fixtures
located on a front or side elevations of a building or structure shall be full
cutoff.
      (2)   In all Commercial/Town Center or Industrial Districts, wall pack
outdoor light fixtures oriented toward a residential bufferyard and an abutting
Residential District shall be full cutoff.
      (3)   Low intensity (i.e., 100 watts or less), architectural style wall
pack outdoor light fixtures (which may be cutoff, semi-cutoff, or non-cutoff)
may be used to accent architectural elements of the building or structure or to
illuminate entrance areas.
   (H)   Vehicular canopy light fixtures. Outdoor light fixtures located under
a vehicular canopy of drive-through structures (e.g., gasoline service station
canopies, bank drive-through canopies, and the like) shall be full cutoff
fixtures with a maximum intensity of 400 watts.
   (I)   Awning and canopy lighting. Awnings and canopies used for building
accents over doors, windows, walkways, and the like, may be internally
illuminated or back-lit (i.e., lit from underneath or behind); provided,
however, that the primary material is opaque and that translucent material is
limited to the actual text or logo of the sign, if any, incorporated into the
awning or canopy.
   (J)   Glare on public right-of-way. Flag and statue lights, architectural
lights, floodlights, or sign lighting shall be so directed and shielded that
the light element is not visible from any point along an adjacent public right-
of-way.
   (K)   Floodlights. Outdoor light fixtures equipped with floodlights may only
be permitted on a lot as follows:
      (1)   Floodlights shall be focused on the primary building or the area of
the lot located between the floodlight and the primary building; or
      (2)   Floodlights shall be shielded to the extent that the main beam from
the luminaire is not visible from or causes any glare onto adjacent properties
or rights-of-way.
   (L)   Lighting plans. The following information, at a minimum, shall be
provided for all lighting plans submitted in connection with an application for
an improvement location permit:
      (1)   A site plan which includes the outline of buildings, structures,
and other improvements (e.g., parking areas, loading areas, interior access
drives, and the like) on the lot and the location of all outdoor light
fixtures; and
      (2)   A description of the outdoor light fixtures, including but not
limited to manufacturer’s or electric utility catalog specifications sheets,
drawings, or photometric report, which indicate:
         (a)   The outdoor light fixture classification (e.g., cutoff, semi-
cutoff, full cutoff, or non-cutoff);
         (b)   Mounting height of freestanding outdoor light fixtures; and
         (c)   Wattage proposed for each outdoor light fixture.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.02(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.212 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR SPORT AND ATHLETIC FIELD LIGHTS.
   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, the following
special regulations shall apply to sport and athletic field lights.
Freestanding outdoor light fixtures for sport and athletic fields:
   (A)   Shall not exceed 110 feet in height above grade; and
   (B)   Shall be of a type and manufacturer that offers a spill and glare
control package and shall be fitted with the manufacturer’s spill and glare
control package.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.02(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.213 EXEMPT LIGHTS.
   (A)   Holiday decorations. Outdoor light fixtures used for holiday
decorations.
   (B)   Public lighting. All outdoor light fixtures originating from public
areas and ways, including but not limited to parks, rights-of-way, public art,
or other public facilities, that are installed for the benefit of the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Fossil fuel lights. All outdoor light fixtures producing light
directly from the combustion of fossil fuels (i.e., kerosene lanterns or gas
lamps).
   (D)   Construction/emergency lighting. All outdoor light fixtures provided
in connection with construction work or the abatement of an emergency situation
necessitating the lighting, provided that the use of such outdoor light
fixtures is discontinued during hours when construction activity or emergency
abatement is not in progress and that the outdoor light fixtures are removed
upon completion of the construction activity or the abatement of the emergency.
   (E)   Internal illumination of signs. All outdoor light fixtures which are
completely enclosed within a sign cabinet and which provide illumination only
for a sign face.
   (F)   Single family dwelling or 2 family dwelling lots. All outdoor light
fixtures used for the illumination of personal property; provided, however,
that the outdoor light fixtures shall be subject to the performance standards
in §
152.086(G) regarding glare.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.02(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.214 TEMPORARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   Temporary lights permitted.  
      (1)   The following types of outdoor light fixtures may be approved on a
temporary basis by the Zoning Administrator prior to placement or use.
         (a)   Civic events. Temporary outdoor light fixtures used for civic
events.
         (b)   Special events. Temporary outdoor lighting fixtures for such
activities as circuses, fairs, carnivals, sporting events, and the like.
      (2)   Such temporary lights shall not be installed more than 30 days
prior to the civic event or special event and shall be removed not more than 15
days after the civic event or special event.
   (B)   Searchlights. Notwithstanding anything contained in §
152.215 to the contrary, temporary outdoor light fixtures used in connection
with a civic event or special event may include 1 portable, rotating
searchlight; provided, however, that the temporary outdoor light fixture:
      (1)   Shall not be permitted for more than 3 occurrences during a
calendar year;
      (2)   Shall not be used for a period of more than 2 consecutive days
during a civic event or special event;
      (3)   Shall not be operated between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and
8:00 a.m.; and
      (4)   Shall otherwise comply with all other applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.02(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.215 PROHIBITED LIGHTS.
   (A)   Flashing lights. Any lights that flash, move, revolve, rotate,
scintillate, blink, flicker, vary in intensity or color, or use intermittent
electrical pulsation.
   (B)   Floodlights. Floodlights not in compliance with the regulations set
forth above, or other form of outdoor light fixtures not specifically
authorized by this subchapter (including but not limited to stringer lights),
that are ground mounted or attached to light poles, and used to illuminate the
site, buildings, or structures.
   (C)   Outdoor strings of lights. Outdoor strings of lights, including but
not limited to those used to outline lot lines or outdoor display areas;
provided, however, outdoor strings of lights may be allowed when complying with
§
152.213(A), holiday decorations.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.02(e), passed 1-26-2010)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 152.230 INTENT.
   (A)   These sign regulations are intended to: encourage the effective use of
signs as a means of communication; encourage signs which, by their design, are
integrated with and harmonious to the buildings and sites which they occupy;
eliminate excessive and confusing sign displays; maintain and improve the
appearance of the town as an attractive place in which to live and conduct
business; safeguard and enhance property values by minimizing the possible
adverse effects of signs on nearby public and private property; support and
complement the land use objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and this chapter;
protect public and private investment in buildings and open spaces; eliminate
potential hazards to motorists and pedestrians resulting from signs; establish
reasonable limits on the number, time, and manner (including but not limited to
the spacing, materials, and size of signs) to avoid sign clutter; and promote
the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the town.
   (B)   The regulations contained in this subchapter shall apply to the
location, erection, and maintenance of signs in any district regulated by this
chapter.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 8.03, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.231 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   Unless otherwise specifically stated, signs that comply with the provisions
contained in this section shall be exempt from all other provisions of this
chapter, except that the clear sight area provisions specified in §
152.020 shall apply.
   (A)   Building lighting. Highlighting of structural/architectural elements
of buildings, such as roof lines, doors, window or wall edges, by illumination
shall not be considered a sign; provided, however, if the highlighting or
outlining contains text or logos, the items shall be considered signs and
regulated by this chapter according to the sign type and district in which it
is located. In no case shall the building lighting be flashing or animated.
   (B)   Flags. Reserved for future use.
   (C)   Non-logo features.  Integral, decorative, or architectural features of
buildings, so long as the features or works do not contain logos, letters, or
trademarks, except as noted in division (E)(4) below.
   (D)   Interior signs.  Signs located:
      (1)   Within the interior of any building, or within an enclosed lobby or
court of any building; or
      (2)   Located within the inner or outer lobby, court, or entrance of any
theater, that are not viewable or intended to be viewable from the public
right-of-way and do not qualify as window signs.
   (E)   Miscellaneous signs.  Including but not limited to:
      (1)   Signs only giving property identification, names, or numbers of
occupants, and containing 2 square feet or less in sign surface area;
      (2)   Signs posted on private property only to identify or warn about
“Private Property,” “Private Parking,” “No Trespassing,” or “Danger” from
animals and containing 2 square feet or less in sign surface area;
      (3)   Signs only indicating the location of public telephones and
restrooms, underground public utilities, or similar location signs and
containing 4 square feet or less in sign surface area; and
      (4)   Signs which are integral to the building and only indicating the
name of the building, date of erection, monumental citations, commemorative
tablets and the like, when carved into stone, concrete or similar material or
made of bronze, aluminum or other permanent type construction and made an
integral part of the building.
   (F)   Official signs.
      (1)   Signs authorized by a government or governmental unit which give
traffic, directional, or warning information;
      (2)   Signs of public service companies indicating danger; and
      (3)   Signs erected by or on the order of a public officer in the
performance of his or her public duty which aids service or safety.
   (G)   Public signs and public notices. Signs required or specifically
authorized for a public purpose by any law, statute or ordinance, which may be
any type, number, area, height above grade, location or illumination required
by the law, statute or ordinance under which the signs are erected.
   (H)   Holiday displays.  Holiday displays which contain no commercial
message, are primarily decorative in nature, and are clearly incidental and
commonly associated with any national or religious holiday, and which are
erected not more than 30 days prior to the start of the holiday and removed no
more than 15 days after the holiday.
   (I)   Tombstones.
   (J)   Works of art.  Three-dimensional works of art (statuary, sculptures),
and 2-dimensional works of art (i.e., murals) that clearly are artistic in
nature and which do not promote on-site activities or commercial interests;
provided, however:
      (1)   Two-dimensional works of art which exceed 5% of the side or rear
façade of a building on which they are placed shall receive approval as a wall
sign; and
      (2)   Two-dimensional works of art, regardless of size, shall not be
permitted on the front façade of any building.
   (K)   Window signs. Window signs, provided that the signs shall not exceed
the lesser of:
      (1)   Twenty-five percent of the area of the window; provided, in the
case of multi-pane windows, the surface area of the window shall be the
combined surface area of the individual panes; or in the case of a glass
curtain wall, the surface area of the window shall be the combined surface area
of the individual glass panels; or
      (2)   Twelve square feet in sign surface area.
   (L)   Temporary signs. In addition to the type, number, sign surface area,
setback, and height regulations for signs specified for each district,
temporary signs (i.e., signs typically related to sale or lease, construction,
grand openings, political campaigns, and the like) shall be allowed subject to
the following regulations:
      (1)   General regulations applicable to all temporary signs.
         (a)   Time. Temporary signs may be erected for 1 of the following time
periods:
            1.   Special events. Temporary signs may be erected, placed, or
located in connection with a special event not more than 30 days prior to the
start of a special event and shall be removed not more than 15 days after the
end of the special event. A special event related sign shall not be erected,
placed or located more than 2 times during a calendar year; or
            2.   Non-special event. Temporary signs not in connection with a
special event may be erected, placed, or located not more than 2 times during a
calendar year and shall not exceed 45 days in duration.
         (b)   Place. Temporary signs shall comply with the following location
requirements:
            1.   A temporary sign shall comply with the clear sight area
regulations of §
152.020;
            2.   A temporary sign shall not be located within any public right-
of-way;
            3.   A temporary sign, if a freestanding sign, shall be located in
compliance with all setback regulations for a permanent sign; and
            4.   A temporary sign, if a wall sign, shall be located in
compliance with the regulations for a permanent wall sign.
         (c)   Manner. Temporary signs shall be placed in the following manner.
            1.   A temporary sign shall be permitted on a lot only upon prior
authorization by the owner of the lot.
            2.   Any sign which meets the chapter definition of an on-premises
business sign or an outdoor advertising sign shall not be considered or allowed
as a temporary sign.
            3.   A temporary sign shall not be illuminated.
      (2)   Temporary freestanding sign, R1 or R2 District. Temporary
freestanding sign for any individual lot in any R1 District or R2 District:
         (a)   Number.  One temporary freestanding sign shall be permitted for
each street or limited access highway which abuts the lot; and
         (b)   Manner. Temporary signs:
            1.   Shall not exceed 6 square feet in sign surface area; and
            2.   Shall not exceed 4 feet in height above grade.
      (3)   Temporary freestanding sign, MF, Commercial/Town Center, or
Industrial Districts. Temporary freestanding sign for any MF District,
Commercial/Town Center District or Industrial District or for any single or 2
family subdivision development in the R1 District or R2 District:
         (a)   Number.  
            1.   One additional freestanding sign shall be permitted for each
street or limited access highway which abuts the lot or integrated center; and
            2.   Exception: more than 500 feet. When a lot or integrated center
abuts the same street or limited access highway for more than 500 feet, 1
additional freestanding temporary sign shall be permitted on that street or
limited access highway, provided that:
               a.   Minimum separation between freestanding temporary signs
along the same street or limited access highway shall be 300 feet;
               b.   The additional freestanding temporary sign shall be
oriented to the street or limited access highway which abuts the lot or
integrated center for more than 500 feet;
               c.   The minimum separation between freestanding temporary
signs, regardless of orientation of the freestanding temporary signs, shall be
100 feet; and
               d.   The total sign surface area of all freestanding temporary
signs shall not exceed 200 square feet.
         (b)   Manner. Temporary signs:
            1.   Shall not exceed 8 feet in height above grade; and
            2.   Shall not exceed 32 square feet in sign surface area.
      (4)   Temporary window sign. Temporary window sign, in all districts
shall not exceed the lesser of:
         (a)   Twenty-four square feet in surface area; or
         (b)   Five percent of the window on which it is placed or through
which it is viewed; provided, in the case of multi-pane windows, the surface
area of the window shall be the combined surface area the individual panes; or
in the case of a glass curtain wall, the surface area of the window shall be
the combined surface area of the individual glass panels.
      (5)   Special time and manner regulations for A-frame, T-frame, menu
board, or sandwich board signs. Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary,
temporary signs which are A-frame, T-frame, menu board, or sandwich board signs
shall be subject to the following time and manner regulations:
         (a)   Time: may be erected, placed or located outside of a business
establishment on a daily basis;
         (b)   Time: shall only be displayed during business hours;
         (c)   Manner: shall be within 10 feet of the main customer entrance to
the business establishment and shall not be located in any public right-of-way;
         (d)   Manner: shall not exceed 6 square feet in sign surface area; and
         (e)   Manner: shall not exceed a maximum height of 4 feet above grade.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.03(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.232 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be prohibited in all districts.
   (A)   Signs located on, in or above the right-of-way of any street or alley,
except for: official signs or signs erected on behalf of or pursuant to
authorization of a governmental body; and projecting signs as expressly
permitted by later sections of this subchapter.
   (B)   Signs which interfere with street intersections. No sign, permanent or
temporary, shall be erected so that it interferes with the sight distance as
specified in §
152.020.
   (C)   Signs which interfere with, obstruct the view of, imitate, copy,
purport to be, or may be confused with any authorized official sign, traffic
sign, traffic signal, or traffic-control device.
   (D)   Portable signs, including but not limited to: A-frame, T-frame, menu
board, and sandwich board signs (except as expressly authorized by §
152.231(L)(5)); signs on portable trailer frames; and signs attached to or
painted on a vehicle parked and visible from the public right-of-way; provided,
however, a vehicle which is used in the normal day-to-day operation of a
business use shall not be considered a portable sign if the vehicle is parked
beside or behind the building in which the use is located, or if the sign on
the vehicle contains less than 9 square feet in sign surface area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-100.jpg]      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/IMAGES/0-0-0-102.jpg]      [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/IMAGES/0-0-0-
104.jpg]
 
   (E)   Windblown devices, including but not limited to any banner, pennant,
spinner, streamer, propeller, disc, moored blimp, gas balloon, or flag that is
designed to inform or attract attention (except for exempt flags as set forth
in §
152.231).
   (F)   Signs attached to trees.
   (G)   Signs attached to utility poles, except for signs erected on behalf of
or pursuant to authorization of a governmental body or the utility company
having jurisdiction over the poles.
   (H)   Signs that bear or contain statements, words, or pictures of an
obscene, pornographic, immoral character, or which contain advertising matter
which is untruthful or will offend public morals or decency.
   (I)   Any sign that obstructs or substantially interferes with any window,
door, fire escape, stairway, ladder, or opening intended to provide light, air,
ingress, or egress to any building.
   (J)   Any changeable copy sign, including without limitation an electronic
variable message sign on which the message changes more than 6 times per
minute.
   (K)   Any rotating beam, beacon, intermittent light, lights of changing
degrees of intensity, or flashing illumination in connection with any sign
surface, except as part of an electronic variable message sign on which the
message does not change more than 6 times per minute.
   (L)   Roof signs.
   (M)   Any other type of sign located on private property outside of a public
right-of-way not expressly permitted by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.03(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.233 ON-PREMISES SIGNS: R1, R2, AND MF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Single family dwellings, 2-family dwellings, residential facilities
for the mentally ill, residential facilities for the developmentally disabled,
and child care home uses. Single family dwellings, 2 family dwellings,
residential facilities for the mentally ill, residential facilities for the
developmentally disabled, and child care home uses shall be permitted 1
monument identification sign or 1 building identification sign for each street
or limited access highway which abuts the lot, indicating only the name or
address of occupant, provided:
      (1)   The maximum sign surface area shall not exceed 2 square feet;
      (2)   The maximum height above grade for a monument sign shall not exceed
4 feet;
      (3)   The sign shall be constructed of a material(s) which blends in with
the residential character of the neighborhood, such as but not limited to, wood
or stone;
      (4)   The sign shall not be illuminated, either internally or externally;
      (5)   The sign shall not encroach into any public right-of-way; and
      (6)   The sign shall comply with the clear sight area regulations of §
152.020.
   (B)   Multifamily dwelling uses. Multifamily dwelling uses shall be
permitted 1 monument identification sign or 1 building identification sign for
each street or limited access highway which abuts the lot, provided:
      (1)   The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in sign surface area;
      (2)   The maximum height above grade for a monument sign shall not exceed
5 feet;
      (3)   The sign shall not be internally illuminated;
      (4)   The sign shall indicate only the name, address of the management
thereof, or associated information;
      (5)   The sign shall maintain a minimum front yard setback of 10 feet
from the proposed right-of-way, and shall maintain a minimum side yard setback
and minimum rear yard setback consistent with the requirements for an accessory
structure in the district to which the real estate is zoned; and
      (6)   The sign shall comply with the clear sight area regulations of §
152.020.
   (C)   Recorded, platted residential subdivisions. Two monument
identification signs shall be permitted at each entrance to a recorded, platted
residential subdivision provided:
      (1)   The signs shall be constructed of ornamental metal, stone masonry,
or other permanent material;
      (2)   The signs shall indicate only the name of the subdivision;
      (3)   The signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in sign surface area
each;
      (4)   The maximum height above grade shall not exceed 8 feet;
      (5)   The sign shall not be internally illuminated;
      (6)   The signs shall not encroach into any public right-of-way;
      (7)   The sign shall comply with the clear sight area regulations of §
152.020; and
      (8)   Only 1 sign shall be permitted in each quadrant of an intersection.
   (D)   Nonresidential and other uses permitted by special exception when
located in a Residential District. The following regulations shall apply to all
nonresidential and other uses permitted in the Residential Districts by special
exception.
      (1)   Freestanding identification signs.
         (a)   Type of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be
monument signs.
         (b)   Number of signs. One freestanding identification sign shall be
permitted for each street or limited access highway which abuts the lot.
         (c)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding identification signs.
            1.   School, religious use, or nursing home: 32 square feet.
            2.   All other nonresidential or other uses permitted by special
exception: 16 square feet.
         (d)   Minimum front yard setback, side yard setback, and rear yard
setback for freestanding identification signs.
            1.   Front yard setback, all streets: 10 feet from proposed right-
of-way.
            2.   Side yard setback and rear yard setback: the minimum side yard
setback or rear yard setback for a freestanding identification sign shall be
the same as required for an accessory structure in the applicable district.
         (e)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. The maximum
height of a monument identification sign shall not exceed 5 feet in height
above grade.
      (2)   Building identification signs.
         (a)   Type of signs.  Building identification signs shall be wall
signs. In addition, awning signs, canopy signs or marquee signs may be
permitted subject to the provisions of §
152.233(E), below.
         (b)   Number of building identification signs. There shall be no limit
to the number of building identification signs, provided that the total sign
surface area of all building identification signs located on a building shall
not exceed the maximum sign surface area for the building.
         (c)   Maximum sign surface area of building identification signs. The
total sign surface area of all building identification signs oriented to an
individual façade shall not exceed:
            1.   Front façade. Five percent of the total area of a front façade
of a building; and
            2.   Side façade and rear façade. Three percent of a side or rear
façade of a building; provided, however, that for any side façade or rear
façade of a building oriented toward a customer parking area, street, or
limited access highway, the maximum sign surface area of 5% shall apply.
      (3)   Incidental signs.
         (a)   Type of signs. Incidental signs shall be monument or wall signs.
         (b)   Number of signs.
            1.   If a lot has 1 driveway, 2 incidental directional signs shall
be permitted at the driveway entrance or exit;
            2.   If a lot has more than 1 driveway, 1 incidental directional
sign shall be permitted for each driveway; and
            3.   One incidental directional sign or 1 incidental parking and
loading sign shall be permitted at each critical turning point along an
interior access drive when required to safely direct vehicular traffic (e.g.,
to direct vehicular traffic to: a drive-up window; a customer or employee
parking area; or a delivery or loading area).
         (c)   Maximum sign surface area of incidental signs. Incidental signs
shall not exceed 2 square feet in sign surface area.
         (d)   Minimum front yard setback, side yard setback, and rear yard
setback for freestanding incidental signs.
            1.   Front yard setback. Three feet from proposed right-of-way.
            2.   Side yard setback and rear yard setback. The minimum side yard
setback or rear yard setback for a freestanding incidental sign shall be the
same as required for an accessory structure in the applicable district.
         (e)   Maximum height of incidental signs. The maximum height of an
freestanding incidental monument sign shall not exceed 4 feet in height above
grade.
   (E)   Awning sign, canopy sign, or marquee sign. Wherever a building
identification sign is permitted in a Residential District, the use of an
awning sign, canopy sign, or marquee sign shall be allowed subject to the
following provisions:
      (1)   Total area. The total area of the awning, canopy, or marquee (i.e.,
the combined 2- dimensional surface area of all sides of the awning, canopy, or
marquee) shall not exceed the sign surface area allocated to the façade of the
building upon which the awning, canopy, or marquee is attached.
      (2)   Sign surface.  The portion of the awning, canopy, or marquee which
includes a sign surface shall not exceed:
         (a)   Fifty percent of the total area of an awning or canopy; or
         (b)   Seventy-five percent of the total area of a marquee.
      (3)   Clearance to grade. The bottom edge of the:
         (a)   Awning or canopy shall not be less than 8 feet, 6 inches above
grade over a walkway:
         (b)   Marquee shall not be less than 9 feet above grade over a
walkway; or
         (c)   Awning, canopy, or marquee shall not be less than 15 feet above
grade over a driveway, interior access drive, or alley.
      (4)   Projection from building. The maximum projection of an awning,
canopy, or marquee shall not exceed 8 feet from or beyond its supporting
building and shall not project beyond any walkway adjacent to the building.
      (5)   Marquee sign.  A marquee sign may include a non-changeable copy
sign attached to or mounted on top of a marquee, subject to the sign surface
area limitations set forth above.
      (6)   Encroachment over public right-of-way.  No awning, canopy, or
marquee shall encroach into the air rights of any public street right-of-way.
   (F)   Suspended signs. Suspended signs shall be permitted on any building
containing 2 or more individual, non-related, and separately operated uses
subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   There shall be no more than 1 suspended sign per front façade of
the structure or tenant space of each grade-level tenant;
      (2)   The maximum sign surface area of a suspended sign shall not exceed
5 square feet; and
      (3)    All portions of the suspended sign or sign structure shall be not
less than 8 feet, 6 inches above finished grade.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.03(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.234 ON-PREMISES SIGNS: OB, LB, AND CB DISTRICTS AND ALL INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Single use sites; freestanding identification signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be either
monument signs or pole signs in compliance with Table 152.234B: Maximum Height
and Type of Sign, below.
      (2)   Number of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be
permitted at a rate of 1 freestanding identification sign for every 500 feet,
or portion thereof, that a single use site abuts a street, provided that:
         (a)   The number of freestanding identification signs shall be
calculated independently for each street which the single use site abuts;
         (b)   The minimum separation between freestanding identification signs
on the single use site, regardless of the street to which the freestanding
identification sign is oriented, shall be 100 feet;
         (c)   The minimum separation between freestanding identification signs
oriented toward the same street shall be 300 feet;
         (d)   In the case of multiple freestanding identification signs, each
freestanding identification sign shall be oriented toward the street by virtue
of which the multiple freestanding identification signs are permitted; and
         (e)   The total sign surface area of all freestanding identification
signs shall not exceed the maximum sign surface area permitted below.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding signs.
         (a)   Maximum sign surface area shall apply individually to each
street.
         (b)   The maximum sign surface area shall not exceed that specified in
Table 152.234A: Maximum Sign Surface Area, below:
Table 152.234A: Maximum Sign Surface Area
Maximum Sign Surface Area: Freestanding Signs for Single Use Sites
Frontage Districts
         OB LB CB LI/GI
Table 152.234A: Maximum Sign Surface Area
Maximum Sign Surface Area: Freestanding Signs for Single Use Sites
Frontage             Districts
                     OB            LB             CB             LI/GI
≤500 ft.           32 sq. ft.    64 sq. ft.     100 sq. ft.    64 sq. ft.
>500 ft.- ≤1,000 ft32 sq. ft.(1) 100 sq. ft.(1) 150 sq. ft (1) 100 sq. ft.(1)
> 1,000              48 sq. ft.(2) 200 sq. ft.(2) 300 sq. ft.(2) 200 sq. ft.(2)
(1)    Sign surface area may be all in 1 freestanding sign or divided between
all permitted freestanding signs.
(2)    Sign surface area may be all in 1 freestanding sign or divided between
all permitted freestanding signs, provided that the maximum sign surface area
for any individual freestanding sign shall not exceed 75% of the maximum
listed.
 
      (4)   Minimum front setback, side setback and rear setback for
freestanding identification signs.
         (a)   Front setback. The minimum front yard setback or front
residential bufferyard setback for any freestanding identification sign shall
be 5 feet from the proposed right-of-way.
         (b)   Side setback or rear setback. The minimum side yard setback,
minimum rear yard setback, minimum side residential bufferyard setback or
minimum rear residential bufferyard setback for a freestanding identification
sign shall be the same as required for any building or structure.
      (5)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. The maximum
height above grade of freestanding identification signs shall not exceed that
specified in
Table 152.234B: Maximum Height and Type of Sign, below:
 
Table 152.234B: Maximum Height and Type of Sign
Maximum Height and Type of Sign, Freestanding Signs for Single Use Sites
Type of Sign                                Districts
                                            OB    LB    CB     LI/GI
Monument sign                               5 ft. 6 ft. 8 ft.  8 ft.
Pole sign - when oriented toward any street NA    NA    25 ft. 25 ft.
NOTE: NA = Not Allowed/not permitted
 
   (B)   Integrated centers; freestanding identification signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be either
monument signs or pole signs in compliance with
Table 152.234D: Maximum Height and Type of Sign, below.
      (2)   Number of signs.  
         (a)   Freestanding identification signs shall be permitted at a rate
of 1 freestanding identification sign for every 500 feet, or portion thereof,
that an integrated center abuts a street, provided that:
            1.   The number of freestanding identification signs shall be
calculated independently for each street which the integrated center abuts;
            2.   The minimum separation between freestanding identification
signs on the single use site, regardless of the street to which the
freestanding identification sign is oriented, shall be 100 feet;
            3.   The minimum separation between freestanding identification
signs oriented toward the same street shall be 300 feet;
            4.   In the case of multiple freestanding identification signs,
each freestanding identification sign shall be oriented toward the street by
virtue of which the multiple freestanding identification signs are permitted;
and
            5.   The total sign surface area of all freestanding identification
signs shall not exceed the maximum sign surface area permitted below.
         (b)    Any freestanding identification sign for an integrated center
shall include the name of the integrated center and the sign shall allocate a
minimum of 10% of the sign surface area to the name of the integrated center.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding signs for an integrated
center.
         (a)   Maximum sign surface area shall apply individually to each
street which abuts the integrated center.
         (b)   The maximum sign surface area shall not exceed that specified in
Table 152.234C: Maximum Sign Surface Area, below:
Table 152.234C: Maximum Sign Surface Area
         Maximum Sign Surface Area; Freestanding Signs for Integrated Centers
Frontage Districts
         CB LI/GI
Table 152.234C: Maximum Sign Surface Area
                   Maximum Sign Surface Area; Freestanding Signs for
Frontage           Integrated Centers
                   Districts
                   CB              LI/GI
≤500 ft.         140 sq. ft.     64 sq. ft.
>500 ft.- ≤1,000 300 sq. ft. (1) 150 sq. ft. (1)
ft.
> 1,000            600 sq. ft. (2) 300 sq. ft. (2)
(1)    Sign surface area may be all in 1 freestanding sign or divided between
all permitted freestanding signs.
(2)    Sign surface area may be all in 1 freestanding sign or divided between
all permitted freestanding signs, provided that the maximum sign surface area
for any individual freestanding sign shall not exceed 75% of the maximum
listed.
 
      (4)   Minimum front yard setback, minimum side yard setback, and minimum
rear yard setback for freestanding identification signs.
         (a)   Front setback.  The minimum front yard or front residential
bufferyard shall be 5 feet from the proposed right-of-way.
         (b)   Side setback and rear setback. The minimum side yard setback,
minimum rear yard setback, minimum side residential bufferyard setback, or
minimum rear residential bufferyard setback for a freestanding identification
sign shall be the same as required for any building or structure.
      (5)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. The maximum
height above grade of freestanding identification signs shall not exceed that
specified in
Table 152.234D: Maximum Height and Type of Sign, below:
 
Table 152.234D:
Maximum Height and Type of Sign, Freestanding Signs for Integrated Centers
Type of Sign                               Districts
                                           CB     LI/GI
Monument sign                              20 ft. 8 ft.
Pole sign, when oriented toward any street 40 ft. 25 ft.
 
   (C)   Out lots in an integrated center; freestanding identification signs.
      (1)   Number of freestanding identification signs for out lots. In
addition to the freestanding identification signs permitted above for an
integrated center, individual out lots within an integrated center may qualify
for an individual monument sign as set forth below:
         (a)   1.   If business identification wall signs are located on 0, 1,
or 2 façades of the building located on the out lot, 1 monument identification
sign may be located on the out lot; or
            2.   If business identification wall signs are located on 3 or more
façades of the building located on the out lot, 0 monument identification signs
may be located on the out lot.
         (b)   If an out lot abuts more than 1 street, 1 additional monument
identification sign shall be permitted for each street which abuts the out lot.
If an out lot qualifies for an additional monument identification sign, the
minimum separation between the additional monument identification sign and any
other permitted freestanding identification sign, regardless of orientation of
the signs, shall be 100 feet.
         (c)   In the LI District and GI District, each lot shall be considered
an out lot and may qualify for a freestanding identification sign, subject to
the limitations listed above in this division.
      (2)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding monument identification
signs on out lots. The maximum sign surface area of freestanding monument
identification signs on out lots shall not exceed that specified in
Table 152.234E: Sign Surface Area and Height, below:
 
Table 152.234E: Sign Surface Area and Height
Freestanding Signs for Out Lots in Integrated Centers
Regulation        Districts
                  CB         LI/GI
Sign surface area 48 sq. ft. 32 sq. ft.
Height            6 ft.      4 ft.
 
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback, side yard setback, and rear yard
setback for freestanding monument identification signs on out lots.
         (a)   Front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback or front
residential bufferyard setback for any freestanding monument identification
sign on an out lot shall be 5 feet from the proposed right-of-way.
         (b)   Side yard setback or rear yard setback. The minimum side yard
setback, rear yard setback, side residential bufferyard setback, or rear
residential bufferyard setback for a freestanding identification sign shall be
the same as required for any building or structure.
      (4)   Maximum height of freestanding monument identification signs on out
lots. The maximum height above grade of freestanding monument identification
signs on out lots shall not exceed that specified in
Table 152.234E: Sign Surface Area and Height, above.
   (D)   Building identification signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Building identification signs shall be limited to
wall signs. In addition, awning signs, canopy signs or marquee signs may be
permitted subject to the provisions of division (D)(4), below.
      (2)   Number of building identification signs. There shall be no limit to
the number of building identification signs per façade, provided that the total
sign surface area of all building signs located on each building façade shall
not exceed the maximum sign surface area for the building façade upon which the
signs are located.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of building identification signs.  
         (a)   The total sign surface area of all building identification signs
oriented to an individual façade shall not exceed as follows in divisions (D)
(3)(a)1. and 2.; provided, however, that for any side façade or rear façade of
a building oriented toward a customer parking area or street, the maximum sign
surface area for a front façade shall apply:
            1.   Front façade.
               a.   OB Districts: 5% of the total area of the front façade of
the structure or tenant space; or
               b.   LB, CB, LI, and GI Districts: 10% of the total area of the
front façade of the structure or tenant space.
            2.   Side façade and rear façade.
               a.   OB Districts: 3% of the side façade or rear façade of the
structure or tenant space; or
               b.   LB, CB, LI, and GI Districts: 5% of the side façade or rear
façade of the structure or tenant space.
         (b)   The linear measurement of a business identification sign shall
not exceed 80%of the linear width of the façade of the structure or tenant
space on which the sign is located.
      (4)   Awning sign, canopy sign, or marquee sign. Wherever a wall sign is
permitted in a Commercial District or Industrial District, the use of an awning
sign, canopy sign, or marquee sign shall be allowed subject to the following
provisions.
         (a)   Total area. The total area of the awning, canopy, or marquee
(i.e., the combined 2- dimensional surface area of all sides of the awning,
canopy, or marquee) shall not exceed the sign surface area allocated to the
façade of the building upon which the awning, canopy, or marquee is attached.
         (b)   Sign surface. The portion of the awning, canopy, or marquee
which includes a sign surface shall not exceed:
            1.   Fifty percent of the total area of an awning or canopy; or
            2.   Seventy-five percent of the total area of a marquee.
         (c)   Clearance to grade. The bottom edge of the:
            1.   Awning or canopy shall not be less than 8 feet, 6 inches above
grade over a walkway;
            2.   Marquee shall not be less than 9 feet above grade over a
walkway; or
            3.   Awning, canopy, or marquee shall not be less than 15 feet
above grade over a driveway, interior access drive, or alley.
         (d)   Projection from building. The maximum projection of an awning,
canopy, or marquee shall not exceed 8 feet from or beyond its supporting
building and shall not project beyond any walkway adjacent to the building.
         (e)   Marquee sign. A marquee sign may include a non-changeable copy
sign attached to or mounted on top of a marquee, subject to the sign surface
area limitations set forth above.
         (f)   Encroachment over public right-of-way. No awning, canopy, or
marquee shall encroach into the air rights of any public street right-of-way
unless approved by the Indiana Department of Transportation (if applicable) and
the town.
   (E)   Incidental signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Incidental signs shall be monument signs or wall
signs.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   If a lot or integrated center has 1 driveway incidental
directional signs shall be permitted at the driveway entrance or exit;
         (b)   If a lot or integrated center has more than 1 driveway, 2
incidental directional signs shall be permitted for each driveway;
         (c)   One incidental directional sign or 1 incidental parking and
loading sign shall be permitted at each critical turning point along an
interior access drive when required to safely direct vehicular traffic (e.g.,
to direct vehicular traffic to a drive-through facility, a customer or employee
parking area, or a delivery or loading area); and
         (d)   If a lot is occupied by a use which includes a drive-through
facility, 1 menu board shall be permitted adjacent to the drive-through
facility as an incidental directional sign to announce the selection of
services or products available at the drive-through facility and the prices
thereof.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of incidental signs.
         (a)   Incidental signs shall not exceed:
            1.   OB and LB Districts: 2 square feet in sign surface area per
sign; and
            2.   CB, LI, and GI Districts: 6 square feet in sign surface area
per sign.
         (b)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the
contrary, a menu board sign permitted as an incidental directional sign
adjacent to the drive-through facility shall not exceed 48 square feet in sign
surface area.
      (4)   Minimum front yard setback, side yard setback, and rear yard
setback for freestanding incidental signs.
         (a)   Front yard setback or front residential bufferyard setback: 3
feet from the proposed right-of-way.
         (b)   Side yard setback, rear yard setback, side residential
bufferyard setback, and rear residential bufferyard setback: the same as
required for any building or structure.
      (5)   Maximum height of incidental signs.
         (a)   The maximum height of a freestanding incidental monument sign
shall not exceed 4 feet in height above grade.
         (b)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the
contrary, the maximum height of a menu board sign permitted as a freestanding
incidental directional monument sign adjacent to a drive-through facility shall
not exceed 7 feet in height above grade.
   (F)   Suspended signs in integrated centers.  Suspended signs shall be
permitted on any building containing 2 or more individual, non-related, and
separately operated uses subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   There shall be no more than 1 suspended sign per front façade of
the structure or tenant space of each grade-level tenant.
      (2)   The maximum sign surface area of a suspended sign shall not exceed
5 square feet.
      (3)   All portions of the suspended sign or sign structure shall be not
less than 8 feet, 6 inches above finished grade.
   (G)   Outdoor display area signs. Outdoor display areas shall be permitted
additional signs as specified below:
      (1)   Outdoor display area signs shall be limited to banner signs:
         (a)   Which are mounted on light poles located on the lot and within
or adjacent to the outdoor display area; and
         (b)   Which are mounted to the light poles with upper and lower
horizontal supports.
      (2)   Individual outdoor display area banner signs shall not exceed the
maximum dimensions specified below, either:
         (a)   Three feet in width by 8 feet in height; or
         (b)   Three and one-half feet in width by 5-1/2 feet in height.
      (3)   All individual outdoor display area banner signs placed on a lot
shall be of the same dimensions, shall be oriented on the side of the light
poles facing toward the outdoor display area, and shall be placed at the same
relative location on all light poles;
      (4)   No light pole shall contain more than 1 banner sign;
      (5)   The total surface area of all outdoor display area banner signs
shall not exceed a ratio of 3 square feet per 1,000 square feet of outdoor
display area; and
      (6)   Outdoor display area banner signs may announce the name of the
business, operation, manufacturer, product, or items on display.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.03(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.235 ON-PREMISES SIGNS: TC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Freestanding identification signs.  Freestanding identification signs
shall not be permitted within the TC - Town Center District.
   (B)   Building identification signs.
      (1)   Lower level building identification signs.  
         (a)   Building identification signs located on the first 18 feet of
building height or the actual building height, whichever is less, shall be
considered lower level building identification signs. Lower level building
identification signs shall be limited to: wall signs; awning signs, canopy
signs or marquee signs subject to the provisions of division (B)(4), below; or
projecting signs subject to the provisions of division (B)(3), below.
         (b)   The total sign surface area of all lower level building
identification signs oriented to an individual façade shall not exceed:
            1.   Front façade. Five percent of the total area of the first 18
feet or the actual building height, whichever is lesser, of front façade of a
building; and
            2.   Side façade and rear façade. Five percent of the total area of
the first 18 feet or the actual building height, whichever is lesser, of a side
or rear façade of a building.
      (2)   Upper level building identification signs.  
         (a)   Building identification signs located above the first 18 feet of
building height shall be considered upper level building identification signs.
Upper level building identification signs shall be limited to wall signs or,
projecting signs subject to the provisions of division (B)(3), below.
         (b)   The total sign surface area of all upper level building
identification signs oriented to an individual façade shall not exceed:
            1.   Front façade. Three percent of the total area of the front
façade of a building located above 18 feet above grade; and
            2.   Side and rear façades. Three percent of the total area of a
side or rear façade of a building located above 18 feet above grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-106.jpg]
 
      (3)   Projecting building identification signs.
         (a)   Maximum height of projecting building identification signs.
Projecting building identification signs shall not extend above the roof line.
         (b)   Sign surface area.
            1.   Total area. The sign surface area of a projecting building
identification sign shall not exceed the sign surface area allocated to either:
lower level building identification signs; or upper level building
identification signs, whichever is applicable based upon the location on façade
of the building upon which the projecting building identification sign is
attached.
            2.   Sign split between upper and lower levels.  In the case of a
projecting building identification sign located partially as a lower level sign
and partially as an upper level sign, the sign surface area regulations
regarding upper level building identification signs shall apply.
            3.    Corner lots. In the case of a projecting building
identification sign located on the corner of a building oriented toward the
intersection of 2 or more streets, the corner projecting building
identification sign shall count against the total sign surface area of building
identification signs authorized on the smaller front façade.
         (c)   Maximum number of projecting building identification signs.
            1.   Front façade. One projecting building identification sign
shall be permitted for each 200 feet in width of a front façade of a building
oriented toward a street. Whenever more than 1 projecting building
identification sign is permitted, the minimum separation between projecting
building identification signs oriented toward the same street shall be 100
feet.
            2.   Corner lots. In the case of a building located on a corner
lot, a projecting building identification sign may be located at the corner of
the building oriented toward the intersection of 2 or more streets; provided,
however, that no other projecting building identification signs shall be
located on the same building within 100 feet of a corner projecting building
identification sign, regardless of orientation.
         (d)   Maximum projection from building for projecting building
identification signs.
            1.   Projection from building. No projecting building
identification sign or sign structure supporting a projecting building
identification sign shall extend more than 5 feet from or beyond its supporting
building.
            2.   Distance from curb. No projecting building identification sign
or sign structure shall not extend any closer to an imaginary perpendicular
vertical plane located at the street pavement line, curb, or outside edge of
sidewalk than 3 feet.
            3.   Encroachment over right-of-way. Projecting building
identification signs in compliance with the above regulations may project into
the air rights of a public right-of-way if approval for the encroachment into
the air rights of a public right-of-way is obtained from the town, prior to the
placement of the projecting building identification sign.
         (e)   Minimum height above grade for a projecting building
identification sign. The bottom edge of a projecting building identification
sign shall not be less than 10 feet above grade over a walkway or 15 feet above
grade over a driveway.
      (4)   Awning sign, canopy sign or marquee sign.  Wherever a lower level
building identification sign is permitted, the use of an awning sign, canopy
sign or marquee sign shall be allowed subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Sign surface. The portion of the awning, canopy or marquee which
includes a sign surface shall not exceed 5% of the area of the applicable
façade and further shall not exceed:
            1.   Fifty percent of the total area of an awning or canopy; or
            2.   Seventy-five percent of the total area of a marquee.
         (b)   Relative size. No building identification sign located on an
awning, canopy or marquee shall occupy more than 80% of the width of the
awning, canopy, or marquee.
         (c)   Marquee sign. A marquee sign shall be limited to theater uses
and may include a non-changeable copy sign attached to or mounted on top of a
marquee, subject to the sign surface area limitations set forth above.
      (5)   Suspended signs. Suspended signs shall be permitted on any building
containing an awning or canopy sign subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   There shall be no more than 1 suspended sign per front façade of
the structure or tenant space of each grade-level tenant.
         (b)   The maximum sign surface area of a suspended sign shall not
exceed 5 square feet, which shall not be counted against the maximum permitted
sign surface area for lower level building identification signs.
         (c)   All portions of the suspended sign or sign structure shall be
not less than 8 feet, 6 inches above finished grade.
   (C)   Incidental signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Incidental signs shall be monument signs or wall
signs.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   If a lot has 1 driveway, 2 incidental directional signs shall be
permitted at the driveway entrance or exit;
         (b)   If a lot has more than 1 driveway, 1 incidental directional sign
shall be permitted for each driveway; and
         (c)   One incidental directional sign or 1 incidental parking and
loading sign shall be permitted at each critical turning point along an
interior access drive when required to safely direct vehicular traffic (e.g.,
to direct vehicular traffic to: a drive-up window; a customer or employee
parking area; or a delivery or loading area).
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of incidental signs. The maximum sign
surface area of incidental signs shall not exceed 4 square feet in sign surface
area per sign.
      (4)   Minimum front yard setback, side yard setback, and rear yard
setback for freestanding incidental signs. There shall be no minimum required
front yard setback, side yard setback, or rear yard setback for freestanding
incidental signs; provided, however, such signs shall not encroach into any
public right-of-way.
      (5)   Maximum height of freestanding incidental signs. The maximum height
of a freestanding incidental monument sign shall not exceed 4 feet in height
above grade.
   (D)   General regulations for signs in the TC - Town Center District.
      (1)   Illumination.
         (a)   No sign located in the TC - Town Center District shall be
internally illuminated.
         (b)   Sign illumination, if provided, shall be provided by way of:
            1.   Wall or structure mounted decorative sconces or coach lights
which are architecturally compatible with the building;
            2.   Wall or structure mounted gooseneck lamps with a metal shade
and decorative mounting which are architecturally compatible with the building;
            3.   Wall-wash lights mounted behind opaque individual letters or
elements; or
            4.   Shielded up-lights mounted in an open area beneath the sign.
      (2)   Design.
         (a)   Sign band. Building identification signs installed above
storefronts or on the ground floor façade should form a clearly articulated
band and be integrated into the overall building façade design.
         (b)   Architectural detail. Building identification signs shall be
designed so as to not interfere with architectural details or interrupt the
rhythm of columns or fenestration.
         (c)   Maximum size of letters or logos. The maximum size of any
individual letter or logo used as part of any building identification sign
shall not exceed 2.5 feet in any horizontal or vertical dimension.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.03(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.236 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS.
   (A)   Districts allowed. Off-premises signs shall only be permitted in the
CB - Community Business Districts, LI - Light Industrial Districts, and GI -
General Industrial Districts established under this chapter.
   (B)   Types of signs. Off-premises signs shall be limited to pole signs.
   (C)   Sign surface area for off-premises signs.
      (1)   Arterial streets. The maximum sign surface area for off-premises
signs oriented toward an arterial street shall be 672 square feet.
      (2)   All other streets. The maximum sign surface area for off-premises
signs oriented toward any street not classified as an arterial street shall be
300 square feet.
      (3)   Number of displays. An off-premises sign shall not contain more
than 2 displays or messages per sign surface.
      (4)   Temporary extensions.  Temporary extensions or embellishments
integrally incorporated into the sign surface and having: a vertical height of
no more than 4 feet above the top of the main portion of the sign; a maximum
horizontal dimension of no more than 1 foot beyond the sides of the main
portion of the sign; or a maximum vertical dimension of no more than 1 foot
below the bottom of the main portion of the sign, with a maximum combined area
not to exceed 200 square feet in additional sign surface area may be added to a
672-square-foot off-premises sign.
      (5)   Concealment of sign supports.  The backs of off-premises signs
shall be: concealed by another sign surface; screened by suitable architectural
treatment; or painted to blend with the surrounding (and maintained as such),
so that the supports, tie rods, bracing, or framework which supports the sign
surface is screened from view.
      (6)   Empty displays prohibited. Empty sign surfaces, or signs without a
display or message covering the entire sign surface, shall be prohibited. This
regulation shall apply individually to each display surface.
   (D)   Distance between off-premises signs.
      (1)   Linear spacing/all streets. The minimum separation between off-
premises signs located along and oriented toward the same street shall be 750
feet.
      (2)   Measurement of linear spacing. The method of measurement of the
spacing between off-premises signs oriented toward the same street shall be
along the centerline of the street to which the off-premises sign is oriented,
from the point in the centerline closest to the leading edge of the off-
premises sign.
      (3)   Radial spacing. In no event shall an off-premises sign be located
closer than 300 feet from any other off-premises sign regardless of location or
orientation.
   (E)   Maximum height of off-premises signs. The maximum height of an off-
premises pole sign shall not exceed 35 feet above grade.
   (F)   Minimum front yard setback, side yard setback, and rear yard setback
of off-premises signs.
      (1)   Front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback shall be the
same as required for any building or structure.
      (2)   Side yard setback and rear yard setback. The minimum side yard
setback or minimum rear yard setback for an off-premises sign shall be the same
as required for any building or structure.
   (G)   Separation from certain districts or uses.
      (1)   Linear spacing. The minimum distance between an off-premises sign
and a Residential District, Town Center District, public park - active or
passive, residential use, religious use, private or parochial school, or
designated historic landmark shall be 200 feet, measured along the centerline
of the street to which the off-premises sign is oriented, from the point in the
centerline closest to the leading edge of the off-premises sign to the point in
the centerline nearest district boundary or lot line of a use specified herein.
      (2)   Radial spacing. The minimum distance between an off-premises sign
and a Residential District, Town Center District, public park - active or
passive, residential use, religious use, private or parochial school, or
designated historic landmark shall be 100 feet, measured perpendicular from the
nearest edge of the sign surface to the nearest district boundary or lot line
of a use specified herein.
   (H)   Construction of off-premises signs. The supports, uprights, bracing,
and framework of an off-premises sign shall be of steel construction.
   (I)   Separations/jurisdictional boundaries. The lineal and radial
separation distances contained in this section shall not be limited by
jurisdictional boundaries. Required separation distances for proposed off-
premises signs located within the corporate limits of the town shall also be
maintained from off-premises signs located in adjacent municipalities or
jurisdictional areas.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.03(f), passed 1-26-2010)
OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 152.250 INTENT.
   These off-street parking regulations are intended to provide for the
provision of off-street parking areas which are adequate to support the needs
of proposed uses and future uses of a site while at the same time assuring that
the design and construction of the off-street parking areas meet minimum design
standards necessary to promote efficient circulation and prevent undue traffic
congestion.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 8.04, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.251 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Parking for buildings, structures, or uses. All new development,
additions to buildings or structures, or conversions of use for which an
improvement location permit is required by this chapter in any district shall
provide required off-street parking areas in accordance with the regulations of
this subchapter. Such off-street parking areas may be provided in either a
surface parking area or a parking garage. If off-street parking areas are
provided in a parking garage, the parking garage shall be located in compliance
with the development standards of the applicable district of this chapter
regarding: minimum yards and setbacks; landscaping of perimeter yards and
residential bufferyards (§
152.187); and foundation landscaping (§
152.188).
   (B)   Exceptions to off-street parking regulations for any TC District. A
site in the TC District may include on-street parking located immediately
adjacent to the site, if the adjacent on-street parking is approved as to
location and design by the Indiana Department of Transportation (if applicable)
and the town. If on-street parking is provided, the amount of off-street
parking required by this chapter for the site shall be deemed to be reduced by
the number of on-street parking spaces provided immediately adjacent to the
site.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.04(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.252 EXISTING PARKING AREAS.
   Existing off-street parking areas shall not be reduced below the minimum
requirement for such use as required by this chapter. Any off-street parking
areas existing prior to the effective date of this chapter which were already
below the standards established by this chapter shall not be further reduced.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.04(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.253 LOCATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Off-street parking areas shall be located:
      (1)   On the same lot as the building, structure, or use served by the
off-street parking area;
      (2)   Within the same integrated center, business park, or industrial
park as the building, structure, or use served by the off-street parking area;
or
      (3)   Within 500 feet of the building, structure or use served by the
off-street parking area, provided that the off-site location for the off-street
parking area is approved by the Town Council as a special exception use where:
         (a)   The off-street parking area shall be located within a district
which permits the use for which the off-street parking is provided; and
         (b)   A written agreement, properly drawn and executed by the parties
concerned, approved as to form by the Town Attorney, and recorded in the office
of Recorder for St. Joseph County assuring the availability of the off-street
parking area is filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals as part of the request
for approval of the special exception.
   (B)   In addition to the above location requirements, the location of off-
street parking areas in Residential Districts shall not be located in violation
of the provisions set forth in §
152.087.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.04(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.254 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   The design and construction of all required off-street parking areas shall
be in compliance with the stricter of the regulations contained in this
section, or the minimum specifications prescribed by the town.
   (A)   Design of parking areas.
      (1)   Layout. The layout of all off-street parking areas shall be in
compliance with 1 of the options set forth below:
         (a)   Option 1: in the Architectural Graphic Standards, Tenth Edition,
or most current edition, for a level of service “A” or “B”; or
         (b)   Option 2: in the
Table 152.254: Parking Lot Design, below:
 
Table 152.254: Parking Lot Design
Angle of Parking Space Minimum Width of Minimum Depth of Minimum Width of
                       Parking Space    Parking Space    Maneuvering Aisle
61°- 90°             9 ft.-0 in.      20 ft.-0 in.     24 ft.-0 in.
46° - 60°            9 ft.-0 in.      19 ft.-0 in.     18 ft.-0 in. (1 way)
45°                   8 ft.-6 in.      18 ft.-0 in.     15 ft.-0 in. (1 way)
Parallel               8 ft.-0 in.      22 ft.-0 in.     12 ft.-0 in. (1 way)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-108.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-110.jpg]
 
      (2)   Landscaping.  Except for individual single family dwellings or 2
family dwellings, the layout of all off-street parking areas shall comply with
the design related regulations contained in §§
152.189 and
152.192.
      (3)   Definition of off-street parking spaces.  Except individual single
family dwellings or 2 family dwellings, all off-street parking spaces shall be:
         (a)   Identified by painted lines (minimum 4 inches in width), raised
curbs, or other means to indicated individual spaces; and
         (b)   Provided with a raised curb, wheel stops, or other devices to
ensure that motor vehicles do not encroach beyond the off-street parking area
or into a required yard.
      (4)   Drainage of new improved hard surfaced parking lots.
         (a)   All new paved parking lots will retain on site the additional
storm water generated by the new improvements. The owner must store on site the
difference between the 10-year pre-developed state and the 100-year post
developed state for the site where a positive discharge points exists. Where no
there is no positive discharge, the storm water 100-year post developed state
must be stored on site.
         (b)   No storm water will be allowed to point discharge across an
adjacent property. Maximum allowable water ponding on the improved surface in 6
inches. There will be no discharge of storm water into the sanitary sewer
system.
         (c)   The drainage improvements shall be designed in accordance with §
151.080. The drainage design and plans shall be prepared by a professional
engineer or professional land surveyor in the state. The plans will be reviewed
and approved by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Surface of off-street parking areas. All required off-street parking
areas and any driveway, interior access driveway, or interior access drive to
and from the off-street parking areas shall be hard surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, pervious concrete, or other material to provide a durable, dust-free
surface, which meets or exceeds the minimum specifications prescribed by the
town, provided, however, a temporary or seasonal use permitted by the district
in which the temporary or seasonal use is located may use an unimproved or
gravel surface for the duration of the temporary or seasonal use. If a
temporary gravel surface is provided, the gravel shall be removed and the off-
street parking area shall be returned to its prior condition immediately upon
cessation of the temporary or seasonal use.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.04(d), passed 1-26-2010; Am. Ord. 1248, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 152.255 MINIMUM NUMBER OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   Off-street parking for all uses shall be provided in accordance with the
minimum requirements set forth in
Table 152.256: Minimum ADA Parking Spaces and §
152.258, Required Off-Street Parking, below. When the computation of required
off-street parking spaces results in a fraction of 1/2 or greater, the number
of required off-street parking spaces shall be rounded up to the next whole
number.
   (A)   Increase in intensity of use.  Additional off-street parking spaces
shall be required whenever: a change of use of a building, structure, or lot;
or an addition to any unit of measurement specified herein (i.e., dwelling
units, gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees, and the like),
results in an increase in the minimum number of required off-street parking
spaces to an extent of 15% or more than the number of off-street parking spaces
existing on the effective date of this chapter on the single use site,
integrated center, or industrial park, as the case may be, whether the total
increase occurs at 1 time or in successive stages.
   (B)   Units of measurements.
      (1)   Employees. The number of employees shall be compiled based upon the
maximum number of persons employed on the premises at any 1 time on an average
day or average night, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Gross floor area. Gross floor area shall be determined per the
definition of gross floor area in §
152.426.
      (3)   Seating capacity/building capacity.  Seating or building capacity
shall be based upon the determination of the Fire Chief/Building Code regarding
maximum building capacity.
   (C)   Reduction for combined off-street parking areas.
      (1)   Where an integrated center or industrial park proposes uses with
dissimilar peak time parking demands are proposed, an alternate parking plan
may be approved in connection with the issuance of an improvement location
permit in which a combined off-street parking area is provided. The total
number of off-street parking spaces which are developed in a shared off-street
parking area may be adjusted as indicated in
Table 152.255: Parking Reduction Percentages, below.
      (2)   The minimum total number of off-street parking spaces to be
initially improved under an alternate parking plan shall be the greatest total
number of off-street parking spaces calculated under the following scenarios:
Table 152.255: Parking Reduction Percentages
    Weekday                     Weekend
Use Daytime (6:00 Evening (6:00 Daytime (6:00 Evening (6:00 Nighttime
    a.m. to 6:00  p.m. to       a.m. to 6:00  p.m. to       (Midnight to 6:00
    p.m.)         midnight)     p.m.)         midnight)     a.m.)
Table 152.255: Parking Reduction Percentages
             Weekday                   Weekend
Use          Daytime (6: Evening (6:00 Daytime (6:00 Evening (6:00 Nighttime
             00 a.m. to  p.m. to       a.m. to 6:00  p.m. to       (Midnight to
             6:00 p.m.)  midnight)     p.m.)         midnight)     6:00 a.m.)
Hotel/motel  75%         100%          75%           100%          75%
Office/
professional 100%        10%           10%           5%            5%
service
Industrial   100%        10%           10%           5%            5%
Food sales   50%         100%          100%          100%          10%
and service
Retail       60%         90%           100%          70%           5%
Recreation   40%         100%          80%           100%          10%
Other        100%        100%          100%          100%          100%
 
   Parking Reduction Example: Assume an integrated center including an office
building, multiple retail uses, and movie theater which, under the basic
minimum requirements of this chapter, would be required to provide a total of
225 off-street parking spaces as set forth below.
 
Parking Reduction Example
        Basic Minimum Weekday Weekday Weekend Daytime Weekend Evening Weekend
                      Daytime Evening                                 Nighttime
Office  50            50      5       5               3*              3*
Retail  100           60      90      100             70              5
Theater 75            40      75      60              75              8*
TOTAL   225           150     170     165             148             16
* Note: Numbers have been rounded up per the requirements of §
152.255.
 
   Result: Under an alternate parking plan approval, the minimum total number
of off-street parking spaces may be reduced from 225 off-street parking spaces
to 170 off-street parking spaces (the reduction alternative which requires the
greatest number of off-street parking spaces).
(Ord. 1221, § 8.04(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.256 REQUIRED PARKING FOR THE DISABLED.
   (A)   Every off-street parking area and parking garage available to the
public shall have parking spaces reserved for the use of physically handicapped
persons as specified in
Table 152.256: Minimum ADA Parking Spaces, below (as required by ADA
Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities, Chapter 4.1.2 (5)(a),
published in the Federal Register, Volume 56, No. 144, dated July 26, 1991);
provided, however, facilities which provide medical care and other services to
persons with mobility impairments shall provide ADA parking spaces as follows:
      (1)   Outpatient units and facilities: 10% of the total number of off-
street parking spaces; and
      (2)   Units and facilities that specialize in treatment services for
persons with mobility impairments: 20% of the total number of off-street
parking spaces.
   (B)   Minimum ADA parking spaces:
Table 152.256: Minimum ADA Parking Spaces
Total Parking Spaces Required Minimum Number of Reserved Spaces
Table 152.256: Minimum ADA Parking Spaces
Total Parking Spaces Required Minimum Number of Reserved Spaces
1 - 25                        1
26 - 50                       2
51 - 75                       3
76 - 100                      4
101 - 150                     5
151 - 200                     6
201 - 300                     7
301 - 400                     8
401 - 500                     9
501 - 1,000                   2% of the total number of off-street parking
                              spaces
1,001 and over                20, plus 1 for each 100 off-street parking spaces
                              over 1,000
 
(Ord. 1221, § 8.04(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.257 BICYCLE RACKS.
   In order to encourage alternative means of transportation, any off-street
parking area which contains in excess of 50 parking spaces shall provide a
bicycle rack capable of parking a minimum of 10 bicycles. The bicycle rack
shall be so located as to provide reasonable visibility and security while not
interfering with the safe and efficient movement of pedestrians or motor
vehicles about the lot.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.04(g), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.258 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING TABLE.
   All uses shall provide a minimum number of off-street parking spaces as
indicated below.
 
Use                                      Parking Spaces Required
Ambulance and armored car service        1 parking space per vehicle plus 1
                                         parking space per on-duty employee
Amusement centers, skating rinks, pools, 1 parking space per 100 square feet of
natatoriums, exhibition halls            floor area in public use
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
                                        5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        of gross floor area within buildings
Amusement park                          plus 1.5 parking spaces per 1,000
                                        square feet of site area accessible to
                                        the public, exclusive of the parking
                                        area
Assembly facilities without fixed
seats, including dance halls, martial   1 parking space per every 25 square
arts schools, aerobic and exercise      feet of floor area in public use
centers, and similar studios or centers
                                        1 parking space per 300 square feet of
Automobile, motorcycle, truck, bus, RV  sales floor area in excess of 1,000
and boat sales                          square feet plus 1 parking space per
                                        2,000 square feet of open area
                                        5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        of gross floor area devoted to retail
                                        sales of automotive supplies or parts,
Automotive repair or service facility   plus 2 parking spaces per service bay
                                        (a service bay shall not be considered
                                        a parking space), plus 3 customer
                                        parking spaces
Bar, tavern, nightclub, cabaret, and    1 parking space per every 3 persons
other establishments for the sale of    based upon the maximum number of
beer or intoxicating liquor for         persons that can be accommodated at the
consumption on the premises             same time in accordance with design
                                        capacity
Barber shop/beauty shop/hair salon/     3 parking spaces per each customer seat
manicure shop/tanning salon             or service station
Boarding houses                         1 parking space per 2 guest rooms plus
                                        1 parking space for owner or manager
                                        5 parking spaces per alley. If, in
                                        addition, there are other uses or
                                        accessory uses located within or
                                        operated in conjunction with the
                                        bowling alley, such as restaurants,
                                        bars, taverns, nightclubs, and the
Bowling alleys                          like, additional parking spaces,
                                        calculated based upon the parking
                                        requirements for that specific use,
                                        shall be provided (calculation shall be
                                        based upon the total square feet of
                                        gross leasable floor area for such uses
                                        located within or operated in
                                        conjunction with the bowling alley)
Broadcasting, movie or video producing  1 parking space per 200 square feet of
or recording studios                    gross floor area
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                    Parking Spaces Required
                                       Stacking spaces per wash bay, as
                                       required for a drive-through facility,
Car washes                             plus 3.5 parking spaces per 1,000 square
                                       feet of gross floor area devoted to
                                       office or retail sales
                                       1 parking space per each employee plus 1
Casinos, approved hotels or buildings  parking space per each 3 persons based
wherein gambling games are conducted   upon the maximum number of persons that
                                       can be accommodated at the same time in
                                       accordance with the design capacity
                                       1 parking space per 2 employees, plus 1
                                       parking space per every 10 students
                                       based upon the maximum number of
College/university                     students that can be accommodated in
                                       accordance with the design capacity, or
                                       1 parking space per 5 seats in the main
                                       auditorium, whichever is greater
Commercial, trade, or business schools 40 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
                                       feet of classrooms
Child care centers                     1 parking space per employee plus 3
                                       additional parking spaces
                                       1 parking space per 200 square feet of
Financial institutions/banks           gross floor area, plus parking spaces as
                                       required for each walk-up, drive-
                                       through, or freestanding bank machine
                                       1 parking space for each walk-up, drive-
Financial institutions/banks -         through or freestanding bank machine,
freestanding bank machines, walk-up or plus stacking spaces as required for a
drive-through                          drive-through facility for any drive-
                                       through or freestanding bank machine
                                       accessible from an automobile
Funeral homes and mortuaries           1 parking space per every 50 square feet
                                       of gross floor area in service rooms
Gasoline stations and public garages   1 parking space per each employee, plus
                                       2 parking spaces for each service bay
Grocery store                          5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of gross floor area
Gun clubs, skeet, target or archery    1 parking space per every 2 employees,
ranges                                 plus 1 parking space per shooting
                                       position
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                    Parking Spaces Required
Hardware/paint/home improvement store  5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of gross floor area
Hospitals, sanitariums, rehabilitation 1 parking space per every 4 patient
centers and emergency medical care     beds, plus 1 parking space per every 2
service centers                        employees, plus 1 parking space per
                                       staff doctor
                                       1 parking space per guest room, plus 2
                                       parking spaces at office or registration
                                       area. If, in addition to guest rooms,
                                       there are other uses or accessory uses
                                       located within or operated in
                                       conjunction with the hotel or motel,
                                       such as ballrooms, meeting rooms, dining
                                       areas, retail stores, auditoriums, bars,
Hotels and motels                      restaurants, taverns, nightclubs, and
                                       the like, additional parking spaces,
                                       calculated based upon the parking
                                       requirements for that specific use,
                                       shall be provided (calculation shall be
                                       based upon the total square feet of
                                       gross leasable floor area for such uses
                                       located within or operated in
                                       conjunction with the hotel or motel)
                                       1 parking space per every 2 washing
Laundromats                            machines, plus 1 parking space per every
                                       2 employees
                                       10 parking spaces, plus 1 parking space
Libraries, museums and art galleries   per every 300 square feet of gross floor
                                       area over 2,000 square feet
                                       1 parking space for each 1,000 square
                                       feet of gross floor area devoted to such
                                       use. If, in addition, there is space
Industrial: assembly or manufacturing  devoted to office, retail or other uses
                                       specified elsewhere in these
                                       regulations, parking required for the
                                       additional use shall also be provided
                                       1 parking space for each 3,000 square
                                       feet of gross floor area. If, in
                                       addition, there is space devoted to
Industrial: warehouse or distribution  office, retail or other uses specified
                                       elsewhere in these regulations, parking
                                       required for the additional use shall
                                       also be provided
Medical and dental clinics             5 parking spaces per each doctor
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
                                        1.5 parking spaces per mobile home park
                                        lot plus there shall be a conveniently
                                        located area for visitor parking at a
Mobile home parks                       ratio of 1/2 space per lot; provided,
                                        however, in no case shall there be less
                                        than 25 parking spaces provided per
                                        mobile home park
Nursing, convalescent, rest homes,      1 parking space per every 4 beds plus 1
residential facilities for the          parking space per every 2 employees,
developmentally disabled, and other     plus 1 parking space per staff doctor
health homes and institutions
                                        1 parking space per each employee, plus
                                        1 parking space per every 3 persons
Off-track pari-mutuel wagering facility based upon the maximum number of
                                        persons that can be accommodated at the
                                        same time in accordance with the design
                                        capacity
Offices and office buildings            3.5 parking spaces per 1,000 square
                                        feet of gross floor area
Private clubs, dormitories,             2 parking spaces per every 3 sleeping
fraternities, sororities, and lodges -  rooms or 1 parking space per every 5
with sleeping rooms                     members, whichever is greater
Private clubs, fraternities,
sororities, and lodges - no sleeping    1 parking space per every 5 members
rooms
                                        2 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
Publishing establishments, newspaper or of gross floor area, plus 3.5 parking
printing shops                          spaces per 1,000 square feet devoted to
                                        office or related retail activities
Railroad or motor bus passenger         1 parking space per every 50 square
stations or heliports                   feet of gross floor area, plus 1
                                        parking space per every 2 employees
Refuse dumps or landfills               1 parking space per employee
                                        1 parking space per every 4 seats in
Religious uses - churches or temples    the main sanctuary, auditorium, or
                                        assembly room
Residential: Multifamily, including     2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
apartment houses
Residential: Single Family              1 parking space per dwelling unit
Residential: 2 Family                   2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                    Parking Spaces Required
                                       1 parking space per each 3 customer
                                       seats based upon the maximum number of
Restaurants: family restaurant, family persons that can be accommodated at the
restaurant with lounge, fast food      same time in accordance with design
restaurant                             capacity (including outdoor seating
                                       areas) (minimum of 5 parking spaces
                                       required)
                                       1 parking space per customer service
Restaurants: drive-in restaurant       unit, plus 10 parking spaces per 1,000
                                       square feet of gross floor area (minimum
                                       of 4 additional parking spaces required)
Restaurants: drive-through only (no    1 parking space per one employee
seating)                               (minimum of 5 parking spaces required)
                                       < 400,000 sq. ft. - If the total gross
                                       leasable floor area of an integrated
                                       center is less than 400,000 square feet,
                                       4 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of gross leasable floor area shall be
                                       required
                                       400,000 - 600,000 sq. ft. - If the total
                                       gross leasable floor area of an
                                       integrated center is greater than
                                       400,000 square feet, but less than
                                       600,000 square feet, 4.5 parking spaces
Retail - integrated centers            per 1,000 square feet of gross leasable
                                       floor area shall be required
                                       > 600,000 sq. ft. - If the total gross
                                       leasable floor area of an integrated
                                       center is greater than 600,000 square
                                       feet, 5 parking spaces per 1,000 square
                                       feet of gross leasable floor area shall
                                       be required
                                       Provided, however:
                                       (1) In no case shall any integrated
                                       center provide less than 5 parking
                                       spaces; and
                                       (2) The following individual uses:
                                       grocery store; hardware/paint/home
                                       improvement store; theaters; bowling
                                       alley; bar; tavern; nightclub; cabarets;
                                       or other establishments for the sale of
                                       beer or intoxicating liquor for
Retail - integrated centers (Cont’d) consumption on the premises, shall
                                       provide parking spaces as required for
                                       the individual use by this section, and
                                       the calculation shall be separate from
                                       the calculation of the gross leasable
                                       floor area calculation of the integrated
                                       center
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
                                        < 100,000 sq. ft. - 3.5 parking spaces
                                        per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                        area, provided, however, that in no
Retail - single use sites               case shall any individual use provide
                                        less than a total of 5 parking spaces
                                        100,000 sq. ft. and over - 2.5 parking
                                        spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
                                        1 parking space per classroom and
Schools: nursery, elementary and junior office or 1 parking space per every 10
high schools                            seats in auditorium, whichever is
                                        greater
                                        1 parking space per every 10 classroom
Schools: senior high schools            seats, plus 1 parking space per every 2
                                        staff members
Service or repair establishments        3.5 parking spaces per every 1,000
                                        square feet of gross floor area
Theatres, auditoriums, gymnasiums,      1 parking space per every 5 seats, plus
stadiums, arenas, convention halls, and 1 parking space per every 2 employees
places of assembly with fixed seats
Veterinary hospitals, animal kennels    1 parking space per every 400 square
and pounds                              feet of gross floor area
                                        Except for residential uses, in no case
Minimum parking required                shall any individual, non-related and
                                        separately operated use provide less
                                        than 3 parking spaces
                                        For any use not specified above,
                                        specific requirements shall be
                                        determined by the Zoning Administrator
                                        and shall be based upon requirements
Uses not specified                      for similar uses, expected demand and
                                        traffic generated by the proposed use,
                                        and other information from appropriate
                                        traffic engineering and planning
                                        criteria
 
(Ord. 1221, Art. 8.04, passed 1-26-2010)
OFF-STREET LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 152.270 INTENT.
   These off-street loading regulations are intended to provide for the
provision of off-street loading areas which are adequate to support the needs
of the proposed use and future uses of a site while at the same time assuring
that the design and construction of such off-street loading areas meet minimum
design standards necessary to provide efficient circulation and prevent undue
traffic congestion.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 8.05, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.271 LOADING FOR BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, OR USES.
   All commercial/town center or industrial development or conversions of use
for which an improvement location permit is required by this chapter shall
provide off-street loading areas in accordance with the regulations in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.05(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.272 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   The design and construction of all required loading spaces or excess
loading spaces shall be in compliance with the stricter of the regulations
contained in this section, or the minimum specifications prescribed by the
town.
   (B)   The following standards shall apply to the design of off-street
loading areas.
      (1)   Loading space dimensions. A required or excess off-street loading
space shall be at least 12 feet in width by at least 60 feet in length,
exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance
of at least 14 feet.
      (2)   Minimum aisle width. Each required off-street loading space shall
open directly upon an aisle or interior access drive with a width of at least
35 feet and creating a total maneuvering area, inclusive of the loading space,
of at least 105 feet, unless subject to the provisions of division (B)(4) below
regarding excess loading spaces.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-112.jpg]
 
      (3)   Maneuvering. Each maneuvering area, aisle and interior access drive
utilized to access a required loading space or an excess loading space shall be
so designed and located as to provide safe and efficient ingress/egress to each
loading space and so that trucks do not back from or into a public street, or
onto an adjoining property (unless the subject property and the adjoining
property are located within the same integrated center or industrial park and
such maneuvering area is subject to a recorded easement allowing the
maneuvering).
      (4)   Design of excess loading areas. Any use which provides loading
spaces at a rate of greater than 4 loading spaces, and more than 2 times the
minimum required by this chapter, shall provide a total maneuvering area of at
least 105 feet which is separate and distinct from the minimum aisle width
requirement of 35 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-114.jpg]      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/IMAGES/0-0-0-116.jpg]
 
      (5)   Alternate design for loading areas. In those instances where
insufficient area exists to provide for perpendicular loading spaces as allowed
by division (B)(2) or division (B)(4) above, angled or parallel loading spaces
may be proposed, provided:
         (a)   The design of the loading area shall include either a 1-way
traffic pattern or orients the loading spaces so that traffic flow from the
loading spaces is in the direction of traffic movement on the side of aisle on
which the loading spaces are located;
         (b)   The loading spaces are accessed by an aisle or interior access
drive having a width of not less than 35 feet plus sufficient maneuvering area
outside of the aisle of the interior access drive, based upon the angle of the
loading spaces, to provide safe and efficient maneuverability; and
         (c)   The design of the angled or parallel loading spaces shall be
subject to the approval of the Public Works Director/Town Engineer.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.05(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.273 LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   All off-street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the
use served.
   (B)   No off-street loading spaces shall be located between the front lot
line and the front façade of any portion of the building served; provided,
however, in the case of a double frontage lot, off-street loading spaces may be
located between a front lot line of a perimeter street and the rear of the
building served if: no access is provided across the front lot line; and the
yard between the off-street loading spaces and the front lot line is landscaped
in compliance with the regulations of §§
152.185 through
152.194 for a Type C: Full Screening landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-118.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-120.jpg]
 
   (C)   All off-street loading spaces shall be oriented toward a side lot line
or rear lot line.
   (D)   No off-street loading spaces shall be located in a required side yard,
required rear yard, required side residential bufferyard or required rear
residential bufferyard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-122.jpg]
 
   (E)   Office, professional services, retail, or other non-industrial uses
may provide 1 required loading space per building in a “pull-off” loading area
located adjacent to an interior access drive. A “pull-off” loading area shall
not be subject to the prohibition against being located between the front lot
line and front façade of any portion of the building served set forth in
division (C) above.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.05(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.274 USE OF REQUIRED LOADING AREA.
   Space allocated for required or excess off-street loading spaces and
associated maneuverability shall not be used to satisfy off-street parking
space requirements.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.05(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.275 SURFACE OF LOADING AREAS.
   All off-street loading areas and the ingress/egress to and from such off-
street loading areas located on the lot shall be hard surfaced with asphalt,
concrete or other material to provide a durable, dust-free surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-124.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1221, § 8.05(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.276 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.
   The site design of any gasoline service station shall provide for the safe
and efficient ingress and egress to the site for fuel delivery vehicles and an
area for the fuel delivery vehicles to park while unloading which does not
interfere with or impede ingress or egress to or from any public street.
(Ord. 1221, § 8.05(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.277 MINIMUM NUMBER OF OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
   Off-street loading spaces for all buildings or uses shall be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements set forth in the table below.
Table 152.277: Required Off-Street Loading
Use Gross Floor Area of Building (Square Required Number of Loading Spaces
    Feet)*
Table 152.277: Required Off-Street Loading
Use                  Gross Floor Area of        Required Number of Loading
                     Building (Square Feet)*    Spaces
                     Up to 10,000               0
Office/professional  10,000 - 100,000           1
service              100,000 - 200,000          2
                     Each additional 200,000 or 1 additional
                     portion thereof
                     Up to 10,000               0
                     10,000 - 25,000            1
Retail               25,000 - 60,000            2
                     60,000 - 120,000           3
                     Each additional 100,000 or 1 additional
                     portion thereof
                     Up to 10,000               0
                     10,000 - 40,000            1
Industrial           40,000 - 100,000           2
                     100,000 - 200,000          3
                     Each additional 200,000 or 1 additional
                     portion thereof
                     Up to 10,000               0
Other nonresidential 10,000 - 100,000           1
                     Each additional 100,000 or 1 additional
                     portion thereof
* Interpretation of numbers: Number ranges shall be interpreted as
follows:
   “Over ##,###, and less than or equal to ##,###”.
 
(Ord. 1221, § 8.05(g), passed 1-26-2010)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 152.290 INTENT AND POLICY.
   (A)   Intent.  This subchapter creates the framework for the siting of
wireless telecommunications facilities in a manner which: protects the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the community; provides comprehensive
service to the community; protects the community from visual clutter; is
compatible with existing and future land use; and preserves significant view
corridors.
   (B)   Policy. The following policy statements are set forth to provide
guidance to wireless communication facility providers in the placement of
wireless telecommunication facilities within the town. It is hereby declared
that the town telecommunications policies for the corporate limits of the town
shall be to:
      (1)   Facilitate the comprehensive provision of wireless
telecommunication services to the residents and businesses of the town;
      (2)   Maximize the use of existing and approved telecommunication towers,
buildings, and structures to accommodate new wireless telecommunication
antennas in order to minimize the number of telecommunication towers needed to
comprehensively serve the community;
      (3)   Minimize the number, height, obtrusiveness, and the visual impacts
of telecommunications towers, associated equipment, and buildings;
      (4)   Encourage wireless telecommunication facilities to be located in
areas which are least disruptive to residential, park, open space, and greenway
uses and to be as unobtrusive and invisible as reasonably possible;
      (5)   Ensure that the height of telecommunications towers has the least
visual impact and is no greater than required to achieve service area
requirements and potential co-location;
      (6)   Site telecommunications towers to minimize locations which are
visually solitary or prominent when viewed from residential areas or any public
way;
      (7)   Site telecommunications towers at locations which are obscured by
vegetation, tree cover, topographic features, buildings, or other structures to
the maximum extent feasible;
      (8)   Protect views of and vistas from architecturally or historically
significant structures and historically significant landscapes so that these
architectural or historical resources are not impaired or diminished by the
placement of telecommunications towers; and
      (9)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from
telecommunication towers failure through structural design standards and
setback requirements.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.01(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.291 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to
the contrary, wireless telecommunications facilities, when such are permitted
by and in compliance with federal law and the laws of the State of Indiana
(including but not limited to non-interference with public safety
telecommunications), shall be regulated and governed by the regulations and
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Amateur radio exemption. This section shall not apply to nor be
construed to apply to amateur radio operators who are licensed to operate a
radio or transmitter by the Federal Communications Commission under Part 97 of
the Federal Communications Commission’s Rules.
   (C)   Compliance with other laws. A telecommunications tower shall be
erected and operated in compliance with the most current Federal Communication
Commission and Federal Aviation Administration rules and regulations and other
applicable federal and state standards. All telecommunications towers shall
comply with all ordinances of the town not in conflict with this section.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.01(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.292 SITING HIERARCHY OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   Development of wireless telecommunications facilities shall be in accordance
with the following siting alternatives hierarchy. The order of ranking, from
highest to lowest, shall be from division (A), to division (B), to division
(C), outlined below. Where a lower ranked alternative is proposed, the
applicant must demonstrate by substantial evidence that higher ranked options
are not technically feasible or available.
   (A)   Co-location. The co-location of antenna on existing telecommunication
towers and associated equipment or buildings shall comply with the following
regulations:
      (1)   The co-location or placement of new telecommunications antennas
upon existing telecommunications towers are hereby declared as permitted uses
in all districts and may be issued an improvement location permit provided all
development standards outlined in §
152.293(B) are met.
      (2)   Associated equipment or buildings, when located within an existing
compound area that is in compliance with this chapter, may be issued an
improvement location permit provided all development standards outlined in §
152.293(C), below, are met.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-126.jpg]
 
   (B)   Existing structure or building utilization. The utilization of
existing structures and buildings for placement of antenna and associated
equipment or buildings, including surface mounted and roof mounted applications
of telecommunication antennas on existing buildings and structure mounted
applications of telecommunication antennas on water towers, electric-line
transmission towers, or other existing structures, shall comply with the
following regulations:
      (1)   The placement of new telecommunications antennas upon existing
structures and buildings are hereby declared as permitted uses in all districts
and may be issued an improvement location permit provided all development
standards outlined in §
152.293(B), below, are met.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-128.jpg]
 
      (2)   Associated equipment or buildings, when located within an existing
building or compound area that is in compliance with this chapter, may be
issued an improvement location permit provided all development standards
outlined in §
152.293(C) - Associated Equipment or Buildings and Compound Area Requirements
below are met.
   (C)   New telecommunications tower locations.  New telecommunications towers
and associated equipment or buildings shall comply with the following
regulations:
      (1)   Where permitted. Wireless telecommunications facilities requiring
the construction of a telecommunications tower, building, or structure are
hereby declared as special exception uses in and requiring the approval of a
special exception prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit,
provided, however, no new telecommunications tower shall be located within 500
feet of a Residential District or use unless the applicant can demonstrate
through the materials required by division (C)(4) of this section, that there
are no other locations, buildings, or structures beyond 500 feet of a
Residential District or use which are available and which can provide the
necessary wireless telecommunications services to the residents and businesses
of the town.
      (2)   Alternatives exhausted. The applicant for a wireless
telecommunications facility special exception shall demonstrate that they have
exhausted all efforts to locate the proposed telecommunications antennas upon
existing telecommunications towers, buildings, or structures in the
geographical area of the proposed telecommunications antennas. In the event
that a wireless communications provider claims that efforts to locate the
proposed telecommunications antennas upon existing telecommunications towers,
buildings, or structures failed because of the demanded lease amount of the
owner of an existing telecommunications tower, the dispute over fair market
value shall be settled as set forth in division (C)(3), below.
      (3)   Fair market value. In the event of dispute between wireless
telecommunications providers regarding the fair market value of rental for a
co-location on an existing telecommunications tower which is subject to a
requirement to provide co-location at a reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis
and at a cost not materially exceeding fair market value, the applicant, at the
applicant’s cost, shall select an independent appraiser to determine fair
market value of the rental. In the event of a dispute over the appraisal
results, the wireless telecommunication providers shall employ a new appraiser
subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator. The new appraisal shall be
performed at the expense of the wireless telecommunication providers involved
in the dispute. The expense of the new appraisal shall be equally shared
between the wireless telecommunication providers and the results shall be
conclusive.
      (4)   Additional special exception filing requirements. In addition to
the requirements specified in §
152.367(I) and any applicable Rules of Procedure, all applications for a
special exception for a new telecommunications tower location shall include the
following:
         (a)   A service plan for the town. The service plan shall demonstrate
efforts to minimize the size and number of telecommunications tower locations
throughout the geographical area, taking into consideration existing
technology. The service plan shall include, but not be limited to the following
information:
            1.   A narrative detailing:
               a.   The reason of need (coverage, capacity, new users, and the
like) for a telecommunications tower or wireless communication facility at the
requested site;
               b.   The nature of any existing wireless communication facility
sites indicated on the map required by division (C)(4)(a)2., below, shall be
documented (i.e., freestanding structure with available heights noted, roof
mounted applications, existing telecommunications towers with information
regarding co-location opportunities or limitations, service providers utilizing
each such wireless communication facility site, and the like); and
               c.   The manner in which the proposed placement will promote the
town telecommunications policies.
            2.   a.   A map of the town identifying the following:
                  i.   All existing telecommunications towers; and
                  ii.   All structures or buildings within a 1-mile radius of
the proposed site that have a height equal to or greater than the height of the
proposed telecommunications tower minus 30 feet.
               b.   In the event that a telecommunications tower is proposed
within 1 mile of the boundary of the town, the map shall include the
information required above for all areas within 1 mile of the proposed
telecommunications tower.
            3.   a.   If the applicant is a licensed provider of wireless
communication services, the applicant shall supply individual coverage maps of
the town jurisdiction, which:
                  i.   Identify all existing locations utilized by the licensed
provider’s network and reflects the current coverage levels to the town; and
                  ii.   Identify the proposed coverage levels of the licensed
provider’s network after the installation of the proposed wireless
telecommunication facility.
               b.   In the event that the licensed provider proposes multiple
sites, a separate coverage map for each additional wireless telecommunication
facility, and an overall coverage map based upon all proposed wireless
telecommunication facilities shall be provided.
         (b)   A certification, in a manner acceptable to the town, from the
owner of the telecommunications tower or the property on which the
telecommunications tower is located, that the telecommunications tower is
available for use by another wireless telecommunications provider on a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis and at a cost not exceeding the fair
market value for the use of the facilities.
         (c)   A designation by the owner of the telecommunications tower or
the property on which the telecommunications tower is located of an area which
is set aside for the equipment of future users of the telecommunications tower
and is located:
            1.   Within the proposed compound area; or
            2.   Within a separate compound area located on the same lot and
located no further from the telecommunications tower than the distance from the
telecommunications tower to the proposed compound area plus 50 feet.
         (d)   Color photo simulations showing the site of the proposed
telecommunications tower with a photo-realistic representation of the proposed
telecommunications tower as it would appear viewed from the closest Residential
District and from adjacent public right-of-way, and photographs of the same
views as in the photo simulations showing the current appearance of the site
without the proposed telecommunications tower.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.01(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.293 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to complying with the requirements for a special exception use
for the district in which the lot is located, all wireless telecommunications
facilities shall comply with the following additional development standards.
   (A)   Telecommunication tower and antenna array.
      (1)   Height. The maximum height of a telecommunications tower, including
antenna array, shall be less than 200 feet above grade.
      (2)   Telecommunications tower type.  All new telecommunications towers
shall be of a tapering monopole construction unless a determination is made in
connection with a special exception request that an alternative design would
better blend into the surrounding environment and is approved as a waiver of
development standards as provided for and regulated in §
152.367(I).
      (3)   Guys and guy anchors. If a guyed telecommunication tower is
approved, all guys and guy anchors shall be located within the buildable area
of the lot and shall not be located within any required yard or required
residential bufferyard.
      (4)   Security fencing. The base of a telecommunications tower and all
guy anchors shall be enclosed by security fencing. This fencing shall conform
with the requirements detailed in division (C)(1), below.
      (5)   Structural design.  A telecommunications tower shall be designed
and built so as to:
         (a)   Be capable of use by at least 2 wireless communications
providers for a telecommunications tower less than 80 feet in height;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-130.jpg]
 
         (b)   Be capable of use by 3 or more wireless communications providers
for a telecommunications tower of 80 feet in height or greater;
         (c)   Accommodate antenna arrays consisting of 9 to 12 antennas for
each antenna array, provided, however, this regulation shall not apply to slick
antenna applications;
         (d)   Locate the antenna arrays within 15 vertical feet of each other;
         (e)   Have no more than 3 degrees of twist and sway at the top
elevation; and
         (f)   Provide internal cable routing for all tapering monopole
telecommunication towers.
      (6)   Antenna arrays and types. To minimize adverse visual impacts, the
antenna type used shall be in accordance with the following alternatives
hierarchy. The order of ranking, from highest to lowest, shall be (a), (b),
(c), (d), and (e), outlined below. Where a lower ranked alternative is
proposed, the applicant must demonstrate by substantial evidence that higher
ranked options are not technically feasible or available:
         (a)   Flagpole antenna (with or without a flag, as appropriate to the
setting) (see § 152.231 for information regarding flags);
         (b)   Slick antennas or stealth antennas other than flagpole antennas;
         (c)   Panel antennas, also known as directional or sectored antennas;
         (d)   Whip antennas; and
         (e)   Dish antennas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-132.jpg]      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/IMAGES/0-0-0-134.jpg]      [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/IMAGES/0-0-0-
136.jpg]
      (7)   Signs. No lettering, symbols, images, trademarks, signs (including
banners, pennants, or streamers), or advertising shall be placed on or affixed
to any part of a telecommunications tower, antenna array or antenna, other than
as required by Federal Communications Commission regulations regarding
telecommunications tower registration or other applicable law.
      (8)   Safety. Telecommunications towers shall be constructed to minimize
potential safety hazards. Telecommunications towers shall be constructed so as
to meet or exceed the most recent EIA-222 standards, and prior to issuance of
an improvement location permit, the Zoning Administrator shall be provided with
an engineer’s certification that the telecommunications tower’s design meets or
exceeds the EIA-222 standards. Guyed telecommunications towers shall be located
in such a manner that if the telecommunications tower should fall along its
longest dimension, the telecommunications tower will remain within the lot
lines and avoid dwelling units, habitable structures, public street rights-of-
way, utility lines, and other telecommunications towers.
      (9)   Lights. No signals, lights, or other illumination (including
holiday lights or outdoor strings of lights) shall be permitted on
telecommunications towers unless required by the Federal Communications
Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, or the town. When incorporated
into the approved design of the telecommunications tower, outdoor light
fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking areas, or similar areas, in
compliance with the requirements of §§
152.210 through
152.215 of this chapter, may be attached to the telecommunications tower.
      (10)   Modifications. If any additions, changes, or modifications are to
be made to a telecommunications tower, the Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to require proof, through the submission of engineering and
structural data, that the addition, change, or modification conforms to
structural wind load and all other requirements of the current Building Code
adopted by the town.
   (B)   Telecommunications antennas mounted on existing buildings or
structures.
      (1)   Roof-mount. Roof mounted telecommunications antennas are permitted
on buildings and structures in all districts, except for single family
dwellings or 2 family dwellings, without a special exception, provided:
         (a)   A non-whip antenna:
            1.   Does not exceed the height of the building by more than 10
feet; and
            2.   Shall be no closer than 10 feet to the perimeter of the
building.
         (b)   A whip antenna:
            1.   Does not exceed the height of the building by more than 15
feet; and
            2.   Shall be no closer than 15 feet to the perimeter of the
building.
         (c)   Prior to installation of a roof mounted telecommunications
antenna or equipment, the Zoning Administrator shall be provided with an
engineer’s certification that the roof will support the proposed
telecommunications antenna or associated roof mounted equipment.
      (2)   Surface mount. Surface mounted telecommunications antennas are
permitted on buildings or structures in all districts without a special
exception, provided:
         (a)   The antenna is of the non-whip antenna type;
         (b)   The non-whip antenna is mounted flush with the exterior of the
building or structure so that it projects no more than 30 inches from the
surface of the building or structure to which it is attached; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-138.jpg]
 
         (c)   The non-whip antenna’s appearance is designed to blend with the
color or texture of the surrounding surface of the building or structure.
      (3)   Other existing structures.  Telecommunications antennas are
permitted on existing utility, lighting, telecommunications towers and other
structures in all districts without a special exception, provided:
         (a)   The existing utility, lighting, telecommunications towers, and
other structure exceeds 50 feet in height above grade;
         (b)   The telecommunications antenna does not exceed the height of the
structure by more than 10 feet if a non-whip antenna, or 15 feet if a whip
antenna; and
         (c)   Existing structures may be rebuilt if necessary to support the
load of the new telecommunications antenna without further zoning proceedings
provided:
            1.   If the structure to be rebuilt is not an existing
telecommunications tower, the rebuilt structure shall comply with all
applicable regulations of the district in which the structure is located; or
            2.   If the structure to be rebuilt is an existing
telecommunications tower, the new telecommunications tower shall:
               a.   Not exceed the height of the existing telecommunications
tower; and
               b.   Comply with all other regulations contained in this section
for the erection of a new telecommunications tower, except that a special
exception shall not be required.
      (4)   Application. When an application for an improvement location permit
to locate a telecommunications antenna on an existing building or other
structure is made, the Zoning Administrator shall be provided with color photo
simulations showing the site of the existing structure with a photo-realistic
representation of the proposed telecommunications antenna and the existing
structure or any proposed reconstruction of the structure as it would appear
viewed from the closest Residential District and from adjacent public right-of-
way. The applicant shall also submit photographs of the same views as in the
photo simulations showing the current appearance of the site without the
proposed telecommunications antenna.
   (C)   Associated equipment or buildings and compound area requirements.
      (1)   Fencing and landscaping of ground mounted associated equipment or
buildings.
         (a)   Fencing required.  The compound area and all guy anchors shall
be secured with a board-on-board or chain link fence of not less than 6 feet in
height nor more than 10 feet in height. A security wire (barbed, razor, and the
like) may be located on the telecommunications tower-side of the fence but
shall not extend above the top of the fence. A chain link fence, if used, shall
be black vinyl coated.
         (b)   Landscaping required.  Landscaping shall be installed around the
perimeter of the fenced compound area running the full length of all sides of
the compound area or building, except for entry gates or doors. The type of
landscaping required shall be based upon the open space of the fence. If the
fence has an open space of:
            1.   Fifty percent or greater, a 10-foot wide landscaping strip
running the full length of all sides of the compound area or building, except
for entry gates or doors, with 4 evergreen trees for every 30 feet shall be
installed on the outside of the fenced area;
            2.   Less than 50% but greater than 20%, a 10-foot wide landscaping
strip running the full length of all sides of the compound area or building,
except for entry gates or doors, with 2 evergreen trees for every 25 feet shall
be installed on the outside of the fenced area; or
            3.   Twenty percent or less, a 10-foot wide landscaping strip
running the full length of all sides of the compound area or building, except
for entry gates or doors, with 1 ornamental tree (minimum 1-1/2 inch caliper)
planted for every 25 feet shall be installed on the outside of the fenced area.
         (c)   Interior access drives or walkways that lead to the entry into
the compound area or building shall be hard-surfaced with asphalt or concrete.
      (2)   Exterior materials and roof pitch of associated equipment or
buildings.
         (a)   Associated equipment buildings, whether ground or roof mounted
and not enclosed by a fence providing a complete sight barrier (i.e., a fence
with zero open space), shall be similar in color, exterior material, and
character to the main or adjoining building or structure. If ground mounted the
roof pitch of the associated equipment building shall match the pitch of any
existing building or structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-140.jpg]
 
         (b)   When an equipment building is located on a lot that does not
contain an existing building or structure and is not enclosed by a fence
providing a complete sight barrier (i.e., a fence with zero open space), the
exterior material shall be either brick or stone. The roof pitch shall not be
less than a 3-foot vertical rise for each 12-foot horizontal run nor greater
than a 12-foot vertical rise for each 12- foot horizontal run.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.01(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.294 ABANDONMENT AND REMOVAL OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS, ANTENNA ARRAYS,
ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT, AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Abandonment.  Telecommunications towers, antenna arrays, associated
equipment, and buildings which have not been used for a period of 1 year shall
be deemed abandoned and shall be removed from the site.
   (B)   Notice required. The owner of the telecommunications tower and the
last service provider to use a telecommunications tower shall notify the Zoning
Administrator within 30 days that use of a telecommunications tower has been
discontinued.
   (C)   Security.  
      (1)   Every telecommunications tower owner and all service providers
shall establish a cash security fund, bond or irrevocable letter of credit to
secure the payment of removing the telecommunications towers, antenna arrays,
associated equipment and buildings that have been determined to be abandoned,
or found to be in noncompliance with this chapter, and to provide the town a
fund from which to deduct fines and penalties for noncompliance with this
chapter or other applicable laws in the following amounts.
         (a)   The amount to be provided for each telecommunications tower
shall be 125% of the cost of construction based upon a licensed engineer’s
estimate of the cost of construction of the telecommunications tower.
         (b)   The amount for each antenna array on the telecommunications
tower shall be 125% of the cost of construction based upon a licensed
engineer’s estimate of the cost of installation of the antenna array.
      (2)   Any reduction in the security fund provided, because of deductions
of fines, penalties, or removal costs, shall be replenished to the total of the
required amount within 30 days after notice from the town of the amount
deducted and the deficiency created hereby.
   (D)   Refund. Within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 3 months
after the telecommunications tower and/or antenna array is removed, any
remaining funds on deposit with the town pursuant to this section, after
application and above all expenses provided for herein, shall be refunded to
the appropriate owner or provider who created the security fund.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.01(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.295 LIMITATIONS ON SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A special exception which does not fully comply with the
telecommunications policies contained herein for telecommunications towers may
be granted upon a determination that such a grant better accomplishes the
telecommunications policies set out in this section than would a strict
application of these telecommunication policies. Such deviations from the town
telecommunications policy shall be no greater than necessary to accomplish
those policies.
   (B)   A special exception which does not comply with the development
standards of this subchapter may only be granted upon:
      (1)   Approval of a waiver of development standards as provided for in §
152.367(I) and regulated in §
152.367(H); or
      (2)   Separate application for and approval of a variance of development
standards filed for and obtained in accordance with the requirements of §
152.367 and any applicable Rules of Procedure.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.01(f), passed 1-26-2010)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR THE MENTALLY ILL
§ 152.305 LOCATIONS.
   A residential facility for the mentally ill as defined in this chapter and
by state law may not be located within 3,000 feet of another residential
facility for the mentally ill, as measured between lot lines.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 9.02, passed 1-26-2010)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR CONTROLLED USES
§ 152.330 CONTROLLED USES GENERALLY.
   Controlled uses are hereby recognized as having objectionable secondary
impacts. A concentration of controlled uses in a particular area can increase
the impact of those objectionable secondary impacts to the point where a
deleterious impact is created on area properties. In order to prevent the
concentration of controlled uses and to prevent such deleterious impacts from
leading to the development of blighted areas, any controlled use, in addition
to the permitted use and development standard regulations specified in any
primary zoning district, shall also be subject to the following additional
regulations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 9.03, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.331 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR CONTROLLED USES.
   Controlled uses shall be subject to the following additional development
standards:
   (A)   Spacing regulations.
      (1)   General. No building or lot may be used and no building may be
erected, moved, structurally altered or enlarged for any controlled use, if the
building or lot is located within 1,000 feet of any 2 of the following
divisions (A)(1)(a) through (d); provided, however, a controlled use may be
structurally altered for the purposes of constructing, enlarging, or
refurbishing kitchen, food service, restroom, or indoor storage areas, if the
structural alterations are performed within the existing building; and the
seating capacity or patron service area is not increased:
         (a)   Controlled uses;
         (b)   Family restaurant with lounge;
         (c)   Any business establishment with 4 or more amusement devices; or
         (d)   Cabaret - family.
      (2)   Adult businesses. No adult business shall be located within 500
feet of any:
         (a)   District of any other planning and zoning jurisdiction which
allows any dwelling use as a primary use;
         (b)   Lot being legally established for a dwelling use, religious use,
school use or park use; or
         (c)   Any of the following districts:
            1.   In the Town of New Carlisle:
R1  Single Family District
R2  Single Family and 2 Family District
MF  Multifamily District
OB  Office/Buffer District
LB  Local Business District
CB  Community Business District
TC  Town Center District
PUD Planned Unit Development District (that does not specifically include adult
    businesses as permitted uses)
 
            2.   In St. Joseph County:
A   Agricultural District
R   Single Family District
R-2 Residential District
O/B Office/Buffer District
O   Office District
B   Business District
C   Commercial District
PUD Planned Unit Development (that does not specifically include adult
    businesses as permitted uses)
U   University District
 
      (3)   Tattoo, body piercing, scarifying, and branding establishments. No
tattoo, body piercing, scarifying, and branding establishment shall be located
within 500 feet of:
         (a)   Any religious use; or
         (b)   Any public or parochial school for children in any grades from K
through 12.
      (4)   Gun sales or gunsmith shops.  No firearms or ammunition shall be
sold in any gun sales or gunsmith shops within 200 feet of any:
         (a)   Any public or parochial school for children in any grades from K
through 12;
         (b)   Child care center; or
         (c)   Child care ministry.
   (B)   Measurement of distance.  Measurement of distance for controlled uses
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single use sites. All measurements shall be from the lot lines of
the lot or out lot occupied by the controlled use.
      (2)   Integrated centers. All measurements shall be from the perimeter
walls of the tenant space occupied by the controlled use.
      (3)   Straight line.  All distance measurements shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening buildings, structures, or objects.
   (C)   Exterior display for adult businesses. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this chapter to the contrary, all exterior displays for an adult
business shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   View from right-of-way. No adult business shall be conducted in any
manner that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by
display, decorations, sign, show window, or other opening from any public
right-of-way.
      (2)   Number of signs. Not more than 1 business wall sign shall be
permitted for an adult business and the business wall sign shall be permitted
only on the front façade of the building. In addition to the 1 permitted
business wall sign, an adult business may be permitted not more than 1
freestanding sign structure (i.e., a pole sign, a pylon sign, or a ground sign)
if permitted by §§
152.230 through
152.236, and any amendments thereto, and if the freestanding sign meets all of
the requirements of the district in which it is located. All other sign
structures shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Sign surface area. The sign surface area of a business wall sign
for an adult business shall not exceed 16 square feet. The maximum sign surface
area of a freestanding sign structure (i.e., a pole sign, a pylon sign, or a
ground sign), where permitted, shall not [exceed] 48 square feet.
      (4)   Lighting. Signs and sign structures may be illuminated, provided,
however, the illumination shall not be by way of exposed neon, exterior
lighting (e.g., spot or flood lights) or any flashing or animated lights
(either interior to the sign, on the exterior of the sign, or as a border to
the sign).
   (D)   Continuation of nonconforming use. This section is subject to the
provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.067.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.03(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.332 DEFINITIONS FOR ADULT BUSINESSES.
   The following terms related to adult businesses shall be defined as set
forth below. All other terms shall have the meanings set forth in §§
152.425 and
152.426 of this chapter.
   ADULT BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult mini
motion picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult cabaret (a.k.a.
Class B cabaret), adult drive-in theater, adult live entertainment arcade,
adult motel, or adult service establishment.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a preponderance of its stock-in-
trade or its dollar volume in trade, books, magazines, periodicals, or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records, or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT CABARET (a.k.a. CLASS B CABARET). Any cabaret, nightclub, bar, tavern,
restaurant or similar establishment, not including a 21 and over cabaret, a
family cabaret, family restaurant, or family restaurant with lounge, which
features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances by topless or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers,
exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers where the performances are
distinguished or characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or
by emphasis on specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in lewd, lascivious, or erotic dancing or
performances that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an
audience or customers.
   ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open lot or part thereof, with appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the presentation of motion pictures, films,
theatrical productions and other forms of visual productions, for any form of
consideration, to persons in motor vehicles or on outdoor seats in which a
preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ARCADE. Any building or structure which contains or
is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth a series of
live dance routines, strip performances, or other gyrational choreography which
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of
more than 5 but less than 50 persons, used for presenting films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions in
which a preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing
of materials which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar establishment offering public
accommodations for any form of consideration which provides patrons, upon
request, with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-reducing devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per
machine at one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or
more persons used for presenting films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slide
or similar photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the total
presentation time is devoted to showing of materials which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, structure, premises, or other
facility, or any part thereof, under common ownership or control which provides
a preponderance of services involving specified sexual activities or display of
specified anatomical areas.
   ENLARGEMENT OF AN ADULT BUSINESS. An increase in the size of the building,
structure, or premises in which the adult business is conducted by either
construction or use of:
      (1)   An adjacent building;
      (2)   An additional building; or
      (3)   The construction or use of any portion of an adjacent building or
additional building, whether located on the same or an adjacent lot or parcel
of land.
   ESTABLISHING AN ADULT BUSINESS. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of an adult business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
business, to any of the adult businesses defined herein;
      (3)   The addition of any of the features of 1 or more of the adult
businesses defined herein to an existing business;
      (4)   The addition of any of the adult businesses defined herein to any
other existing adult business; or
      (5)   The relocation of any adult business.
   NONCONFORMING ADULT USE. Any building, structure, or land legally
established as an adult business prior to the effective date of this chapter,
but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the provisions of
this chapter.
   RECONSTRUCTION OF AN ADULT BUSINESS. The rebuilding or restoration of any
nonconforming adult business use which was damaged or partially destroyed by an
exercise of the power of eminent domain, or by fire, flood, wind, explosion, or
other calamity, or act of God if the damage or destruction exceeds 50% of the
fair market value of the building, structure, or the facilities affected.
   RESUMPTION. The reuse or reoccupation of a nonconforming adult business use
which has been discontinued for a period of 6 or more consecutive months.
   SERVICES INVOLVING SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES OR DISPLAY OF SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS (as used to define an “adult service establishment”). Any
combination of 2 or more of the following activities:
      (1)   The sale or display of books, magazines, periodicals, or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records, or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   The presentation of films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or similar photographic reproductions which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons;
      (3)   The operation of coin- or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors or other image producing devices to show images to 5 or fewer
persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Live performances by topless or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers,
exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers, where the performances are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (4)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating, or the
infliction of pain;
      (6)   Erotic touching, fondling, or other such contact with an animal by
a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal, or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
divisions (1) through (6) of this definition.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION OF AN ADULT BUSINESS. Any change which would prolong
the life of the supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing
walls, columns, beams or girders, except such changes as are ordered made
pursuant to the provisions of the Unsafe Building Law, I.C. 36-7-9-1, and any
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.03(b), passed 1-26-2010)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 152.345 INTENT.
   This subchapter creates the framework for the siting of wind energy
conversion systems, which convert the power of the wind into the generation of
electricity. It is the intent of this subchapter to:
   (A)   Facilitate the comprehensive provision of wind energy conversion
systems (“WECS”) to the residents and businesses of town;
   (B)   Minimize the height, obtrusiveness, and the visual impacts of WECS,
and all associated equipment and buildings;
   (C)   Encourage WECS to be located in such a manner as to minimize their
impact to residential uses; public parks, open space, and greenways; and
streams, creeks, and rivers;
   (D)   Ensure that the height of WECS have the least visual impact, and are
no greater than required to achieve their designated service;
   (E)   Protect views of and vistas from architecturally or historically
significant structures and historically significant landscapes so that these
architectural or historical resources are not impaired or diminished by the
placement of WECS; and
   (F)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from the failure of a
WECS, through structural design standards and setback requirements.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.04A., passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.346 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Classification. WECS shall be classified as either:
      (1)   A small wind energy conversion system (“SWECS”), designed and
installed exclusively for the on-site use of any associated electric power
generation; or
      (2)   A wind energy facility (“WEF”), designed and installed exclusively
for off-site use of any associated electric power generation.
   (B)   Districts permitted. A SWECS is permitted in all zoning districts as
an accessory use; a WEF is permitted as a special use in designated zoning
districts.
   (C)   Building permit. A building permit is required for the installation of
all WECS.
      (1)   Building permit applications for a SWECS shall be accompanied, at a
minimum, by:
         (a)   Standard manufacturer’s drawings of the engineering
specifications for the installation requirements of the wind turbine structure,
including the tower, base, and footings. This analysis is frequently supplied
by the manufacturer;
         (b)   A statement that the system shall comply with all applicable
rules and regulations of the electric service provider for the property and the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission;
         (c)   A plot plan showing the location of the SWECS relative to all
property lines, on-site structures, off-site structures within 1.5 times the
height of the SWECS, utility locations (such as but not limited to overhead
utilities, transformers, and junction boxes), and measured distances from all
streams, creeks, rivers, public parks, public open space and greenways, and
historic preservation districts;
         (d)   Certification that the installer of the SWECS is certified by
the manufacturer of the SWECS, and has received the necessary training to
properly and safely install the SWECS. Owner-installed SWECS will require an
affidavit certifying that the installation will comply with the manufacture’s
specifications and the requirements of the electric service provider of the
property; and
         (e)   A drawing of the electrical components in sufficient detail to
allow for a determination that the manner of installation conforms to the
National Electrical Code. This information is frequently supplied by the
manufacturer.
      (2)   Building permit applications for a WEF shall be accompanied by a
certification of the approval of the special use by the County Council.
   (D)   Compliance with other laws and ordinances. All WECS shall comply with
all federal, state and local laws and ordinances not in conflict with this
division, including, but not limited to placement in floodplains and historic
preservation districts.
   (E)   Compliance with Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) regulations. WECS must
comply with any applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals
for installations close to airports.
   (F)   Electric utility notification. No WECS shall be installed until
evidence has been given that the utility company has been informed of the
customer’s intent to install an interconnected, customer-owned WECS. Off-grid
systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
   (G)   Signs. No WECS turbine, tower, or associated building or structure may
be used to advertise or promote any product or service. No word or graphic
representation that may be construed as advertising, other than appropriate
warning signs and the manufacturers technical information, shall be placed on a
wind turbine, tower, or other associated building or structure.
   (H)   Signal disturbance. Generators and alternators should be constructed
so as to prevent the emission of radio and television signals. Upon a complaint
of any signal disturbance, the operation of the WECS shall cease. The owner/
operator shall correct any signal disturbance problem that is identified before
the operation of the system can resume.
   (I)   Appearance, color, and finish. The exterior surface of any visible
components must be a non-reflective, neutral color, and blend into the
surrounding environment as practical as possible. White or light grey is the
color of preference unless the manufacturer’s color preference is proven to
better blend into the environment. Rotors (blades) or vanes may be painted
black to better assist in the prevention of ice build-up. Decorative items,
such as flags, streamers, and holiday and commemorative decorations are
prohibited.
   (J)   Lighting. No WECS shall be artificially lighted, unless required by
the FAA or appropriate authority.
   (K)   Support tower. The tower component of any WECS shall be one that is
recommended and certified by the manufacturer.
      (1)   A building-mounted SWECS must be firmly anchored to the building
(roof or wall) according to the manufacturer’s recommendations. Additional
support brackets or cables must be anchored to the structure on which the SWECS
is located.
      (2)   A WECS mounted on a self-supporting tower shall be on a tower that
is of monopole design and does not require the use of guy wires or any other
means of lateral support.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.04B., passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.347 SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS; DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Accessory use. A SWEC may be installed as an accessory use to a
primary use. No SWEC shall be installed on any property without the existence
of a primary use.
   (B)   Minimum lot size, number, maximum height. The minimum lot size, the
maximum number of SWECS on a lot or parcel, and the maximum height of a SWEC
shall be as specified in
Table 152.347, below:
Table 152.347
District Minimum Lot/Parcel Size Maximum Number of SWECS Maximum Height
Table 152.347
District               Minimum Lot/Parcel Maximum Number of Maximum Height
                       Size               SWECS
R1 Single Family       1 acre             1                 60 ft.
R1 Single Family       10 acres           2                 60 ft.
R2 Single Family and 2 1 acre             1                 60 ft.
Family
MF Multifamily         1 acre             2                 60 ft.
O/B Office Buffer      1 acre             1                 60 ft.
LB Local Business      1 acre             2                 60 ft.
CB Community Business  1 acre             2                 60 ft.
TC Town Center         1 acre             1                 60 ft.
LI and GI Industrial   1 acre             1                 80 ft.
LI and GI Industrial   2 acre             2                 80 ft.
LI and GI Industrial   3 acre             3                 80 ft.
 
   (C)   Height. The height of a SWECS shall be measured from 1 foot above
ground level to the highest extension of the blade, rotor, or vane. The minimum
distance between the ground and the blade, rotor, or vanes shall be 10 feet, as
measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blade, rotor, or vane.
   (D)   Noise. SWECS shall not exceed 60 decibels (dB), as measured at the
closest property line. However, the 60 dB standard may be exceeded during
short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe windstorms.
   (E)   Survival speed. SWECS shall be rated by the manufacturer as having a
minimum survival wind speed of 100 miles per hour.
   (F)   Setback. The minimum setback of a SWEC shall meet all of the
following, measured from the edge of the support tower:
      (1)   Two hundred feet from public parks, public open space, public
greenway, historic preservation districts, streams, and rivers, measured from
the nearest property lines, district lines, and/or the top of any stream or
river bank;
      (2)   One-half the height of the to the nearest occupied off-site
structure; and
      (3)   Ten feet from any side and rear property line. Any property line
adjacent to a street shall be deemed a front yard and meet the location
requirements in the illustrations below.
   (G)   Location on property. The location of a SWECS on a property shall be
in accordance with division (F), above, and with Illustrations 1 and 2 below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-142.jpg]
 
   (H)   Abandonment. A SWEC that is out of service for a continuous 24-month
period will be deemed to have been abandoned and shall be removed. Maintenance
events which require extended periods of time beyond a 24-month period shall be
brought to the attention of the Building Department.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.04C., passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.348 WIND ENERGY FACILITY; GENERAL.
   (A)   Special exception use required. A wind energy facility (WEF) is
allowed in designated districts only as a special use, and after a public
hearing by the Area Board of Zoning Appeals and approval by the County Council.
   (B)   Preliminary site development project meeting required. A WEF is a
unique facility having to meet specific location and technical requirements. A
preliminary site development project meeting is required with the local
agencies, and where at a minimum, the following information is to be provided:
      (1)   The location of the WEF identified on an aerial photograph, and the
property tax ID numbers of the properties involved;
      (2)   The number and specifications of the wind turbines;
      (3)   The method and route of transportation of all equipment;
      (4)   The construction timeline and the production life of the WEF;
      (5)   A site plan showing the location of floodplains; wetlands; forested
areas; on-site structures; structures within 500 feet of the development site;
streams and legal ditches; utility lines, cables, and pipelines; and
      (6)   Developer’s determination of public infrastructure needs.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.04D., passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.349 WIND ENERGY FACILITY; APPROVAL.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of division (B) of this section, the
developer of the WEF shall provide all applicable information under §
152.346, and any additional information requested from the preliminary site
development project meeting.
   (B)   Applications for WEF as a special use shall be accompanied by the
items outlined under §
152.367(I) in addition to the following:
      (1)   A site plan showing, at a minimum:
         (a)   North arrow, written and graphic scale, general location map;
         (b)   Legal description;
         (c)   The location and height (including the top of the arc of the
blade) of the wind turbines;
         (d)   The location of all other supporting structures such as but not
limited to sheds, offices, operation and maintenance facilities, drives, and
parking areas;
         (e)   Location of all structures on adjacent properties within 300
feet of all property lines;
         (f)   Topography lines at 2-foot intervals;
         (g)   Location of all natural features such as streams, ditches,
floodplain, wetlands, and tree canopy;
         (h)   Drainage and soil erosion control, including location of all
drainage tiles; and
         (i)   Location of all utilities and utility corridors, such as but not
limited to electric transmission lines, natural gas pipe lines, petroleum pipe
lines, fiber optic lines, sewer lines, and water lines.
      (2)   A site development report, including but not limited to the
following items:
         (a)   The schedule and phasing of construction; the transportation
route for the delivery of and the maintenance of all equipment; provisions for
the repair of any public infrastructure such as roads, ditches, and culverts;
         (b)   A statement describing the service area and the primary
customers of the WEF;
         (c)   Statements indicating that all utilities have been contacted
relative to the location and construction of the WEF along with their responses
and requirements;
         (d)   Technical details of the facility and individual wind turbines,
including but not limited to height of all wind turbines; power generation
capacity; long-term maintenance and replacement requirements; survival wind
speed, and any other information deemed appropriate by the developer, and the
professional staff of town;
         (e)   An analysis of how the WEF will effect the operations of other
facilities such as radio and television transmissions, cell phone
transmissions, and radar transmissions;
         (f)   A statement outlining the security arrangements that will be
placed on the site;
         (g)   An analysis of the maximum decibel levels to be anticipated at
all property lines and at all inhabitable structures within 300 feet of all
property lines;
         (h)   The maintenance plan that has been established for the WEF; and
         (i)   A decommissioning plan outlining the method, timing, and cost of
the removal of 1 or more of the wind turbines upon the termination,
abandonment, discontinuation, decommissioning; or cessation of 1 or more of the
wind turbines, or complete cessation of the operations of the WEF.
      (3)   Other information.
         (a)   A list of all adjacent property owners within 300 feet of the
project boundary lines, along with stamped and addressed envelopes; and
         (b)   Reports from the following agencies and responses to any
concerns raised by the respective agencies:
            1.   Indiana Department of Environmental Management;
            2.   Indiana Department of Natural Resources;
            3.   Town Building Inspector;
            4.   Town Engineer; and
            5.   New Carlisle Town Council.
   (C)   Any project-specific agreements, such as public infrastructure
improvements or a payment-in-lieu-of-taxes agreement, must be approved prior to
final project approval.
   (D)   Liability insurance covering bodily injury and property damage naming
the town as an additional insurer with limits of at least $2,000,000 per
occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate, with a deductible of no more than
$5,000.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.04E., passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.350 WIND ENERGY FACILITY; ABANDONMENT, DISCONTINUATION, OR
DECOMMISSIONING OF WIND TURBINES AND REMOVAL OF WIND ENERGY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Abandonment and/or decommissioning. Wind turbines, wind energy
facilities, and all associated equipment and buildings which have not been used
for a continuous 24 months from the last day of any known transmission of
energy shall be deemed abandoned and shall be removed from the site per the
decommissioning plan. Maintenance events which require extended periods of time
beyond a 24-month period shall be brought to the attention of the Building
Inspector.
   (B)   Security fund. The wind energy facility owner shall establish a cash
security fund, bond or irrevocable letter of credit to secure the payment of
removing any abandoned wind energy facility, including the wind turbines and
associated equipment and buildings that have been determined to be abandoned or
found to be in noncompliance with this chapter, and to provide the town with a
fund from which to deduct fines and penalties for noncompliance with this
chapter or other applicable laws in the amount of 125% of the cost of
construction of the wind energy facility based upon a licensed engineer’s
estimate of the cost of construction. Any reduction in the security fund
provided because of deductions of fines, penalties, or removal costs shall be
replenished to the total of the required amount within 30 days after notice
from the town of the amount deducted and the deficiency created hereby. Within
a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 3 months after the wind turbine
facility is removed, any remaining funds on deposit with the town pursuant to
this chapter, after application and above all expenses provided for herein,
shall be refunded to the appropriate owner or provider who created the security
fund.
(Ord. 1221, § 9.04F., passed 1-26-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.365 TOWN COUNCIL.
   In order to effectuate the purpose of this chapter regarding the
implementation of the Comprehensive Plan and this chapter, the Town Council
shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, including without
limitation I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. have the powers and duties to:
   (A)   Approve, reject, or amend a Comprehensive Plan, or segment thereof,
certified to it by the Area Plan Commission;
   (B)   Initiate amendments to the text of this chapter;
   (C)   Adopt, reject, or amend proposals to amend or partially repeal the
text of this chapter;
   (D)   Initiate amendments to the text of the town Subdivision Control
Ordinance;
   (E)   Adopt, reject, or amend proposals to amend or partially repeal the
text of the town Subdivision Control Ordinance;
   (F)   Adopt or reject proposals to amend zone maps;
   (G)   Adopt, reject, or modify a PUD District ordinance;
   (H)   Approve or disapprove all petitions for special exception uses after
receiving such petitions from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable
recommendation, unfavorable recommendation, or no recommendation; and
   (I)   Such additional powers and duties as may be set forth for the Town
Council elsewhere in this chapter or Indiana state law.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.01, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.366 AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment.  The area planning law is hereby re-adopted and the
Area Plan Commission is hereby reestablished as the Plan Commission for the
Town of New Carlisle, Indiana, in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
   (B)   Membership, qualifications and terms. The membership of the Area Plan
Commission, the qualification of its members, and the terms of membership shall
be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The Area Plan Commission is hereby vested with the
duties and powers imposed upon and granted to an Area Plan Commission under the
area planning law, including without limitation the powers and duties listed
below. To effectuate the purposes of this chapter, the Area Plan Commission
may, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws:
      (1)   Supervise and make rules for the administration of the affairs of
the Planning Department;
      (2)   Prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and hearings,
and other matters authorized by Indiana planning and zoning laws;
      (3)   Keep a complete record of all departmental proceedings;
      (4)   Record and file all bonds and contracts and assume responsibility
for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the Planning
Department;
      (5)   Prepare, publish and distribute reports, ordinances and other
material related to the Area Plan Commission activities authorized by state law
or this chapter;
      (6)   Adopt a seal;
      (7)   Certify to all official acts;
      (8)   Supervise the fiscal affairs of the Planning Department;
      (9)   Prepare and submit an annual budget and be limited in all
expenditures to the provisions made for expenditures by the legislative bodies
of participating municipalities or the Board of Commissioners of St. Joseph
County;
      (10)   Prescribe the qualifications of, with the consent of the Executive
Director, fix the compensation of the employees of the Planning Department,
which compensation shall conform to salaries and compensations fixed before
that time by the Board of Commissioners of St. Joseph County;
      (11)   Delegate authority to its employees to perform ministerial acts in
all cases except where final action of the Area Plan Commission is necessary;
      (12)   Designate a hearing examiner or a committee of the Commission to
conduct any public hearing required to be held by the Area Plan Commission;
      (13)   Appoint a plat committee to hold hearings on and approve plats and
replats on behalf of the Area Plan Commission;
      (14)   Make recommendations to the Town Council concerning:
         (a)   The adoption of the Comprehensive Plan and amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   The adoption of this chapter, a text amendment to this chapter,
a replacement Zoning Ordinance, or the town Subdivision Control Ordinance;
         (c)   The adoption or amendment of a PUD District ordinance; and
         (d)   Zone map changes.
      (15)   Render decisions concerning and approve plats or replats of
subdivisions;
      (16)   Assign street numbers to lots and structures or renumber lots and
structures on streets or highways within the Area Plan Commission’s
jurisdiction to conform with the numbers of structures on streets within cities
within St. Joseph County. The Area Plan Commission hereby delegates the
assignment of street numbers to the Town Clerk-Treasurer;
      (17)   The naming or renaming of streets when performed in connection
with a plat or replat (the naming or renaming of streets within the corporate
limits of the town, when not performed in connection with a plat or replat,
shall be within the jurisdiction of the Town Council);
      (18)   Render decisions concerning development plans and amendments to
development plans;
      (19)   Establish advisory committees of citizens interested in problems
of planning and zoning which shall report to the Area Plan Commission and shall
make inquires and reports only on the subject and problems specified in the
resolution establishing the advisory committee of citizens by the Area Plan
Commission;
      (20)   Establish an executive committee which may act in the name of the
Area Plan Commission as set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-408;
      (21)   Negotiate for grants-in-aid and agree to terms and conditions
attached to the grants-in-aid;
      (22)   Establish a schedule of reasonable fees to defray the
administrative costs connected with:
         (a)   Processing and hearing administrative appeals and petitions for
zone map change, special exception uses, variances, planned unit developments,
and development plan approvals;
         (b)   Issuing improvement location permits; and
         (c)   Other official actions taken under this chapter.
      (23)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy available under
this chapter or applicable law for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter or actions taken hereunder; and
      (24)   Exercise all powers conferred on it by state law, local ordinance,
or rule in the manner so prescribed. This subchapter shall not be construed as
a limitation on those powers.
   (D)   Commitments.
      (1)   Requirement of commitments by the Area Plan Commission.
         (a)   The Area Plan Commission may, when in the discretion of the Area
Plan Commission it is deemed necessary either: to assure the compatibility of a
proposed development with surrounding properties; or to minimize the potential
for the occurrence of detrimental affects from any attributes of a proposed
development on surrounding properties, require or allow the owner of a parcel
of property to make written commitments concerning the use or development of
the subject property in connection with:
            1.   A development plan approval as provided for in this chapter;
            2.   A recommendation to the Town Council regarding a zone map
change to any district classification contained in this chapter;
            3.   A recommendation to the Town Council regarding a PUD District
ordinance;
            4.   A secondary approval of a PUD; or
            5.   A modification of permitted uses or development requirements
of a PUD.
         (b)   The commitments shall be reduced to writing in recordable form
and signed by the owner(s) of the real estate. The commitments shall be in
effect for:
            1.   As long as the zone map applicable to the parcel remains
unchanged;
            2.   The parcel is designed as a PUD under §§
152.165 through
152.171; or
            3.   Modified or terminated as provided below.
         (c)   Commitments required or allowed in connection with a zone map
change or the adoption of a PUD District ordinance shall be voted upon by the
Town Council as certified by the Area Plan Commission.
         (d)   The commitments shall authorize their recording by staff in the
office of the Recorder of St. Joseph County upon the final approval of the
applicable petition. The staff shall be reimbursed by the petitioner for any
and all fees associated with the recording of the commitments.
         (e)   Following the recording of the commitments, staff shall return
the original recorded commitments to petitioner and shall retain a copy of the
recorded commitments in its file.
         (f)   The Area Plan Commission, Town Attorney, Zoning Administrator,
appropriate enforcement official, owners of all parcels of ground located
within 300 feet of the real estate and all owners of real estate within the
area included in the petition who were not petitioners for approval, and other
specially affected persons designated in such commitments shall be entitled to
enforce the commitments pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1015 or as otherwise provided
by applicable law.
         (g)   The commitments required or allowed by the Area Plan Commission
shall be in substantially the form set forth in Appendix B-1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Modification or termination of commitments by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (a)   Commitments required or allowed by the Area Plan Commission may
be modified or terminated by a decision of the Area Plan Commission.
         (b)   Any modification or termination of the commitments shall not be
effective until:
            1.   Reduced to writing;
            2.   Approved by the Area Plan Commission;
            3.   Executed and notarized by the present owner(s) of the real
estate; and
            4.   Recorded in the office of the Recorder of St. Joseph County.
         (c)   The modification or termination of commitments shall be in
substantially the form set forth in Appendix B-2 of this chapter.
         (d)   Procedures to be followed regarding form of filing, public
hearing and notice, and reasons for modification or termination shall be those
set forth in §
152.391.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.02, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.367 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment and jurisdiction. The Board of Zoning Appeals for St.
Joseph County, is hereby re-established in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900 et
seq. The Board of Zoning Appeals for the shall have exclusive authority over
all matters set forth under I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq., within the corporate
limits of the Town of New Carlisle.
   (B)   Membership, qualifications, and terms. The membership of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, the qualification of its members, and the terms of membership
shall be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the duty and
power to:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by staff, hearing officer, or administrative
official under this chapter;
      (2)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative board or other body except
the Area Plan Commission in relation to the enforcement of this chapter;
      (3)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative board or other body except
the Area Plan Commission in relation to the enforcement of those provisions of
this chapter requiring the procurement of an improvement location permit or a
certificate of occupancy;
      (4)   Hear and make a favorable recommendation, unfavorable
recommendation or no recommendation to the Town Council on all special
exception uses in accordance with the provisions of division (I), below; and
      (5)   Hear and determine all variances from development standards of this
chapter.
   (D)   Conditions.  
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, in connection with its making of a
favorable recommendation, unfavorable recommendation or no recommendation to
the Town Council regarding the approval of a special exception use, may
recommend that the Town Council impose certain reasonable conditions as a part
of the Town Council’s approval of any special exception use.
      (2)   Such conditions may include any reasonable site, development,
operational standards, performance standards, requirements, and restrictions
(including duration of approval) deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the
findings of fact determinations.
   (E)   Amendments. The Board of Zoning Appeals, in connection with making a
determination on a variance of development standards, may accept amendments to
a petition which, in the sole discretion of the Board of Zoning Appeals, are
necessary for the Board of Zoning Appeals to make the determination and
findings of fact required by division (H), below.
   (F)   Commitments.  
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may recommend or the Town Council may
permit or require the owner of a parcel of property to make a written
commitment concerning the use or development of that parcel in the case of a
petition for a special exception use.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may permit or require the owner of a
parcel of property to make a written commitment concerning the development of
that parcel in the case of a petition for a variance of development standards.
      (3)   Such commitments may include any reasonable site, development,
operational standards, performance standards, requirements, and restrictions
(including duration of approval) deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the
findings of fact determinations.
      (4)   All such commitments shall be in recordable form and shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder and shall take effect upon the
granting of the special exception use or variance. A recorded commitment shall
be binding on the owner of the parcel, each subsequent owner, and each other
person acquiring an interest in the parcel.
      (5)   The commitments shall be in substantially the form set forth in
Appendix B-3 of this chapter.
      (6)   A recorded commitment may be modified or terminated only by a
decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (7)   The modification or termination of commitments shall be in
substantially the form set forth in Appendix B-4 of this chapter.
      (8)   Procedures to be followed regarding form of filing, public hearing
and notice, and reasons for modification or termination shall be those set
forth in §
152.391.
      (9)   By recommending, permitting or requiring commitments, the Board of
Zoning Appeals does not obligate itself to make a favorable recommendation nor
does the Town Council obligate itself to approve or deny any request.
      (10)   This section does not affect the validity of any covenant,
easement, equitable servitude, or other land use restriction created in
accordance with law.
   (G)   Rules.  
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules concerning: the
filing of appeals; applications for special exception uses and variances; the
giving of notice; the determination of interested parties to receive notice;
the conduct of hearings; the creation, form, recording, modification,
enforcement, and termination of commitments; and the designation of which
specially affected persons and classes of specially affected persons are
entitled to enforce commitments.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be printed and
made available to all applicants and other interested persons.
   (H)   Variance of development standards. A variance from any of the
development standards of this chapter may only be approved upon the Board of
Zoning Appeals making a written determination and adopting appropriate findings
of fact, based upon the evidence presented at a public hearing, that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
      (3)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter would result in
practical difficulties in the use of the property.
   (I)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Statement of purpose. Certain land uses, while they may be
generally appropriate in certain districts and under certain circumstances, may
have characteristics and locational impacts which, if inappropriately located,
may have a detrimental effect upon other land uses within the district and the
town. It is therefore recognized that such land uses should be regulated in
order to preserve property values, as well as promote the public health,
safety, comfort, community moral standards, convenience, and general welfare of
the town.
      (2)   Uses permitted by special exception. Only those uses identified in
each individual district as uses permitted by special exception shall be
permitted by special exception in each district.
      (3)   Grant of a special exception.  
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby authorized to hear and
make a favorable recommendation, unfavorable recommendation or no
recommendation to the Town Council on a petition for a special exception use.
         (b)   The Town Council shall, within 60 days of a recommendation by
the Board of Zoning Appeals, vote on the petition for a special exception use.
         (c)   All petitions for a special exception use shall comply with the
following requirements:
            1.   Petition for special exception. A petition for special
exception shall be initially filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with the requirements for the filing of a variance, except as such
requirements may be modified in this section. The petition shall include
proposed detailed findings of fact pursuant to division (I)(3)(c)4., below, in
support of the determinations required to be made.
            2.   Waiver of development standards. A petition for special
exception may contain a request to waive development standards of the district
determined to be inappropriate for the individual special exception use. The
waiver may only be approved if the waiver is specifically requested in the
petition and specifically approved at the public hearing. Any development
standards which are waived in this manner shall require additional findings as
specified in division (H) of this section, above, for the grant of a variance
of development standards.
            3.   Basis of review of a special exception use.  
               a.   In reviewing a special exception petition with regard to
compliance with the required findings of fact, the Board of Zoning Appeals and
Town Council shall give consideration to the particular needs and circumstances
of each special exception application and shall examine the following items as
they relate to the proposed use:
                  i.   Topography and other natural site features;
                  ii.   Zoning of the site and surrounding properties;
                  iii.   Driveway locations and street access;
                  iv.   On-site and off-site accommodations for vehicular and
pedestrian circulation patterns;
                  v.   Amount, location, and design of parking areas and
loading areas;
                  vi.   Building character, including height, intensity,
materials, and architecture;
                  vii.   Landscaping, screening, and buffering of adjacent
properties;
                  viii.   Compatibility of the proposed use, site design, and
architecture with the district in which the use is proposed to be located;
                  ix.   Extent to which the proposed use, site design, and
architecture comply with the regulations and development standards that would
be applicable if the site were zoned to a Commercial/Town Center District or
Industrial District of this chapter which would permit the proposed use as a
primary use;
                  x.   Open space and other site amenities; and
                  xi.   Availability and adequacy of streets, sanitary
facilities, potable water, storm water management system, and other utilities.
               b.   The Board of Zoning Appeals and the Town Council shall find
that the above items are dealt with appropriately by the petition for special
exception use such that divisions (I)(3)(c)4. and (I)(3)(c)5., below, are
complied with.
               c.   In addition to the requirements of this division (I)(3),
special exception uses shall be subject to any additional development standards
as determined by the Town Council.
            4.   Findings of fact for a special exception. A special exception
may only be granted upon making a written determination and adopting
appropriate findings of fact, based upon the evidence presented at a public
hearing, that:
               a.   The proposed use will not be injurious to the public
health, safety, comfort, community moral standards, convenience or general
welfare;
               b.   The proposed use will not injure or adversely affect the
use of the adjacent area or property values therein;
               c.   The proposed use will be consistent with the character of
the district in which it is located and the land uses authorized therein; and
               d.   The proposed use is compatible with the recommendations of
the town Comprehensive Plan.
            5.   Requirements for the grant of a special exception. The grant
of a special exception shall comply with the following requirements.
               a.   The proposed use shall conform to all development standards
of the applicable zoning district (unless a waiver of the development standards
is requested as part of the special exception petition and approved as set
forth above).
               b.   The proposed use shall conform to all conditions or
commitments attached to the grant of the special exception.
   (J)   Other powers. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall exercise all powers
conferred on it by state law, local ordinance, or rule in the manner so
prescribed. This section shall not be construed as a limitation on those
powers.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.03, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.368 STAFF AGENCIES.
   (A)   Establishment. The Office of the Area Plan Commission of St. Joseph
County, is hereby reestablished as the Planning Department for the Town of New
Carlisle.
   (B)   Administration of Planning and Zoning Authority. The Office of the
Area Plan Commission is hereby delegated the authority to perform all
ministerial acts of the Area Plan Commission not required by law to be
performed by the Area Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals within the
town.
   (C)   Duties and powers of the Executive Director and Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Executive Director to supervise the
general administration of the Planning Department.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Executive Director to receive and
review all applications required by this chapter for zone map changes,
development plan approvals, and planned unit developments.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce and
administer this chapter, receive and review all applications required by this
chapter for determination by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and issue improvement
location permits.
      (4)   The Executive Director shall, when requested by the Area Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals, or when the interests of the town so
require, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in this
chapter and render written reports on the same.
      (5)   The Executive Director shall keep the records of the Planning
Department, including, without limitation, records of applications and reports
rendered. The Executive Director shall maintain records of all final
determinations, decisions, and recommendations of the Area Plan Commission.
      (6)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain records including, without
limitation, records of all permits issued, certificates issued, and notice or
orders issued.
      (7)   The St. Joseph County/City of South Bend Building Department shall
maintain records including, without limitation, records of all: applications
before the Board of Zoning Appeals; and final determinations, decisions, and
recommendations of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (8)   The Executive Director shall transmit to the Area Plan Commission
the recommendation of the Planning Department on all applications, petitions,
or matters requiring official action by the Area Plan Commission.
      (9)   The St. Joseph County/City of South Bend Building Department shall
transmit to the Board of Zoning Appeals technical advice on all applications,
petitions, or matters requiring official action by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (10)   The Executive Director shall transmit to the Board of Zoning
Appeals the recommendation of the Planning Department on applications,
petitions, or matters requiring official action by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (11)   The Executive Director shall maintain the Official Zone Maps and
designate on the Official Zone Maps all map amendments granted under the terms
of this chapter.
      (12)   The Executive Director shall provide and maintain information for
the public relative to all matters arising out of this chapter.
      (13)   The Executive Director may designate staff to assist in the daily
administration of the duties and responsibilities set forth in this chapter.
      (14)   The Executive Director shall perform such other duties as the Area
Plan Commission may direct in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator is hereby charged with
the administration of this chapter and, in particular, shall have the
jurisdiction, authority, and duties described below:
      (1)   To conduct preliminary consultations with potential applicants
regarding development proposals regulated by this chapter;
      (2)   To review all improvement location permit applications for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (3)   To issue improvement location permits upon a determination that the
permit application is in full compliance with all terms and provisions of this
chapter, the town Subdivision Control Ordinance, and all other duly adopted
applicable ordinances, rules, or regulations of the town.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.04, passed 1-26-2010)
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 152.385 INTENT.
   The development review procedures for the town are intended to provide for
the protection of the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
residential and business citizens of the town by providing for the thorough
review of all permit applications and development petitions so that informed
decisions regarding the permit applications and development petitions may be
rendered while balancing the needs of the development community for the timely
review of those permit applications and development petitions.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 10.05, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.386 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Improvement location permit required. No building, structure,
improvement, sign, or use of land may be altered, changed, enlarged, placed,
erected, or located, unless the building, structure, improvement, sign, or use
and its location conform to the provisions of this chapter and an improvement
location permit for the alteration, change, placement, erection, or location of
the building, structure, improvement, sign, or use has been issued.
   (B)   Duration of improvement location permit.
      (1)   An improvement location permit shall be valid for a period of 1
year after date of issuance.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to extend the period
of validity of any improvement location permit one or more times, provided,
however, the total time period of all extension(s) shall not exceed 6 months.
   (C)   Review of improvement location permit application.
      (1)   Improvement location permits for single family and 2 family
dwellings and related accessory buildings or structures. The Zoning
Administrator may take up to 5 business days to study an application for an
improvement location permit. During this 5-business day period, the Zoning
Administrator may consult with other staff or appropriate technical
consultants. If, after the 5-day period, the Zoning Administrator has not
requested any additional information or stated any objections in writing to the
applicant, and the proposed building, structure, or improvement, and the
proposed use conform in all respects to the provisions of this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue the improvement location permit.
      (2)   Improvement location permits for all: multifamily, commercial/town
center, industrial or special exception buildings, structures, improvements or
uses; signs; and accessory buildings, structures or improvements related to
multifamily, commercial/town center, industrial, or special exception uses. The
Zoning Administrator may take up to 15 business days to study the application
for an improvement location permit. During the 15-day period, the Zoning
Administrator may consult with other staff or appropriate technical
consultants. If, after the 15-day period, the Zoning Administrator has not
requested any additional information or stated any objections in writing to the
applicant, and the proposed building, structure, improvement or sign, and the
proposed use conform in all respects to the provisions of this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue the improvement location permit.
      (3)   Improvement location permits for buildings, structures,
improvements, signs, or uses authorized by variance. In addition to the
requirements above, an improvement location permit for a building, structure,
improvement, sign, or use authorized by variance shall not be issued until:
         (a)   Receipt by the Zoning Administrator of written notice from the
Board of Zoning Appeals that the application therefor has been approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals; and
         (b)   A determination by the Zoning Administrator that the improvement
location permit application is in full compliance with the terms of any
conditions which may have been imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeals and
commitments which may have been made by the owner.
      (4)   Improvement location permits for buildings, structures,
improvements, signs, or uses authorized by special exception. In addition to
the requirements above, an improvement location permit for a building,
structure, improvement, sign or use authorized by special exception shall not
be issued until:
         (a)   Receipt by the Zoning Administrator of written notice from the
Town Council that the application therefor has been approved by the Town
Council; and
         (b)   A determination by the Zoning Administrator that the improvement
location permit application is in full compliance with the terms of any
conditions which may have been imposed by the Town Council and commitments
which may have been made by the owner.
   (D)   Appeal of determination. Any determination by the Zoning Administrator
concerning the issuance of an improvement location permit may be appealed to
the Board of Zoning Appeals by any party claiming to be adversely affected by
that decision.
   (E)   Record of permits. A record of all improvement location permits shall
be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the building or land affected and shall be available for public inspection
and copying as provided by applicable state law.
   (F)   Amended improvement location permit. When a builder, developer, or
owner of any building, structure, improvement, or sign for which an improvement
location permit has been obtained, for any reason, proposes that the
construction of the building, structure, improvement, or sign deviate from the
plans filed with the improvement location permit application and approved by
the Zoning Administrator, the builder, developer, or owner shall make
application for an amended improvement location permit. The Zoning
Administrator shall review the application for the amended improvement location
permit in accordance with the procedures set forth above to determine
compliance of the amended improvement location permit application with the
provisions of this chapter and any other applicable conditions, commitments, or
restrictions. If the amended improvement location permit application is found
to be in compliance, the Zoning Administrator shall issue an amended
improvement location permit. Any determination by the Zoning Administrator with
respect to an amended improvement location permit shall be subject to the same
appeal rights and procedures as set forth above for an initial application for
an improvement location permit.
   (G)   Revocation in event of violation. If the Zoning Administrator
determines that construction or development is proceeding or has proceeded in
violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, site plan, or
condition approval, or that the improvement location permit has been issued in
violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, site plan, zoning
commitment, or condition of approval, the Zoning Administrator may revoke the
improvement location permit. In the event that an improvement location permit
is revoked, the Zoning Administrator shall send written notice of the
revocation to the permit applicant.
   (H)   Fees. Fees for improvement location permits shall be as established by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.05(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.387 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS, ORDINANCES, RULES, OR REGULATIONS.
   The issuance of an improvement location permit does not substitute for or
supersede the requirement to obtain approvals specified in other laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations, as the same may be amended from time to
time, before the construction of any building, structure, improvement or sign,
including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Town Building Code;
   (B)   Town Subdivision Control Ordinance;
   (C)   Any other applicable federal, state or local law, ordinance, rule, or
regulation, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Rule 5 Erosion Control Regulations;
      (2)   Driveway permit regulations for the town; and
      (3)   State or federal environmental permits.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.05(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.388 APPLICATION FORM AND PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All improvement location permit applications shall comply with the
form of application specified by the town. When an improvement location permit
is required by this chapter, additional site plans, landscape plans, lighting
plans, sign plans, and building elevations, as described below, may be required
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   A site plan for a single family dwelling or a 2 family dwelling
on a platted lot:
         (a)    North arrow;
         (b)    Address of the lot;
         (c)    Scale (not more than 1 inch = 100 feet);
         (d)    Legal description of the lot;
         (e)    Names, centerlines, and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys, thoroughfares, public ways, water ways, or railroad rights-of-way
abutting or within the lot;
         (f)    The location and dimensions of all buildings, structures, or
improvements currently existing on the lot;
         (g)    Structures proposed for demolition should be indicated as such;
         (h)    The location and dimensions of all proposed buildings,
structures or improvements, including fences, sheds, paved areas, storage
areas, parking areas (indicate if parking is hard surfaced). Cross-hatch or
shade lightly all proposed buildings;
         (i)    Location of any proposed or existing driveway and its width at
the property line (any connection to an alley must also be indicated);
         (j)   The distance from lot lines for all existing and proposed
buildings, structures or improvements (this distance is measured as a line from
the point where the building, structure or improvement is closest to the
property line. This measurement is taken perpendicular to the property line.);
         (k)   The height of the existing and proposed buildings, structures or
improvements; and
         (l)   All other information required by the Zoning Administrator for
the proper administration of this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may waive or relax any of the site plan
requirements listed above, as circumstances dictate.
   (C)   (1)   A site plan for any commercial/town center, industrial, or
special exception use:
         (a)   North arrow;
         (b)   Address of the site;
         (c)   Scale (not more than 1 inch = 100 feet);
         (d)   The actual shape, size, and dimensions of the lot;
         (e)   Area map or sketch to indicate the location of the lot;
         (f)   Names, centerlines, and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys, thoroughfares, public ways, water ways, or railroad rights-of-way
abutting or within the lot;
         (g)   The location and dimensions of all buildings, structures,
improvements or signs currently existing on the lot;
         (h)   Structures proposed for demolition should be indicated as such;
         (i)   The location and dimensions of all proposed buildings,
structures, improvements, or signs, including fences, sheds, paved areas,
storage areas, parking areas (indicate if parking is hard surfaced). Cross-
hatch or shade lightly all proposed buildings;
         (j)   Location of any proposed or existing driveway and its width at
the property line. (Any connection to an alley must also be indicated);
         (k)   If applicable, location of all existing and proposed
freestanding signs on the site. See division (E), below, for requirements
regarding proposed signs;
         (l)   The distance from lot lines for all existing and proposed
buildings, structures, improvements or signs. (This distance is measured as a
line from the point where the building, structure, improvement or sign is
closest to the property line. This measurement is taken perpendicular to the
property line.);
         (m)   The height of the existing and proposed buildings, structures or
improvements;
         (n)   The number of dwelling units (if applicable) of existing and
proposed buildings or structures;
         (o)   The current and proposed use to be made of all buildings,
structures, improvements, or lands within the lot (e.g., parking area, loading
area, residence, office, outdoor storage);
         (p)   Locational engineering information regarding all utilities to
provide service to the buildings or structures on the lot;
         (q)   The location and dimensions of all off-street parking areas and
off-street loading areas and facilities;
         (r)   The location, size, and dimension of all fences, walls, or other
screening and buffering devices;
         (s)   Site data summary (a text summary in table format describing:
square footage of existing and proposed buildings; existing, proposed, and
required parking; existing, proposed, and required loading; proposed and
permitted maximum building height; accommodation of drainage, sanitary sewer,
water, and other utility services; legal description; lighting; and
landscaping);
         (t)   The seal of the registered professional engineer or architect
responsible for the site plan; and
         (u)   All other information required by the Zoning Administrator for
the proper administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may waive or relax any of the site plan
requirements listed above, as circumstances dictate.
   (D)   Building elevations.
      (1)   (a)   Address of the site;
         (b)   Proposed name of the development;
         (c)   Scale;
         (d)   Elevations for each façade of the building;
         (e)   Specification or sample of the type and color of building
materials to be used for all wall, window, roof, and other architectural
features; and
         (f)   Any other information requested in writing by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator, in its sole discretion, may waive or
relax any of the building elevation requirements listed above, as circumstances
dictate.
   (E)   Sign plan.
      (1)   (a)   Address of the site;
         (b)   Proposed name of the development;
         (c)   Scale;
         (d)   (Freestanding signs): a site plan indicating the location of any
existing or proposed freestanding signs;
         (e)   (Wall signs): a site plan indicating the location of any
building upon which a sign is to be mounted, with the location of the signs
indicated;
         (f)   Elevation of proposed signs including size, materials, and
color;
         (g)   Illumination details for proposed signs;
         (h)   Placement, size, color, and illumination details for any
proposed wall sign; and
         (i)   Any other information requested in writing by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator, in its sole discretion, may waive or
relax any of the sign plan requirements listed above, as circumstances dictate.
   (F)   Landscape plan.
      (1)   (a)   Address of the site;
         (b)   Proposed name of the development;
         (c)   Scale (not more than 1 inch = 100 feet);
         (d)   The location of any existing or proposed freestanding signs;
         (e)   Outline of all existing or proposed buildings or structures,
including parking areas and loading areas;
         (f)   Boundary lines of the site;
         (g)   Location of all floodway and floodway fringe areas within the
boundaries of the site;
         (h)   All existing elevations and proposed land contour lines having
at least 2-foot intervals;
         (i)   Proposed sidewalk, walkway, or alternate plan for pedestrian
ways;
         (j)   Size, species, and spacing (on center) of all proposed trees,
landscaping and ground cover;
         (k)   Location of existing trees in required yards and required
residential bufferyards, indicating type and size of trees and whether the
trees are to be removed or preserved;
         (l)   Description of methods to preserve trees without injury and with
sufficient area for the root system to sustain the tree;
         (m)   Description of protective care and physical restraint barriers
at the drip line to prevent alteration, compaction or increased depth of the
soil in the root system area prior to and during groundwork and construction;
and
         (n)   Any other information requested in writing by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the landscape plan requirements listed above, as circumstances
dictate.
   (G)   Lighting plan.
      (1)   (a)   North arrow;
         (b)   Address of the site;
         (c)   Scale (not more than 1 inch = 100 feet);
         (d)   Proposed name of the development;
         (e)   Boundary lines of the site including all dimensions of the site;
         (f)   Outline of buildings, structures, and other improvements (e.g.,
parking areas, loading areas, interior access drives, and the like) on the lot
and the location of all outdoor light fixtures;
         (g)   A description of the outdoor light fixtures, including but not
limited to manufacturers or electric utility catalog specifications sheets,
drawings, or photometric report, which indicate:
            1.   The outdoor light fixture classification (e.g., cutoff, semi-
cutoff, full cutoff, or non-cutoff);
            2.   Mounting height of freestanding outdoor light fixtures; and
            3.   Wattage proposed for each outdoor light fixture.
         (h)   If architectural building lighting is proposed, indicate the
location, type, and intensity of lighting on each building façade; and
         (i)   Any other information requested in writing by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the lighting plan requirements listed above, as circumstances
dictate.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.05(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.389 ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Text amendments. The procedures and requirements for the preparation
and consideration of proposal to amend or partially repeal the provisions of
this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Text of Zoning Ordinance.  The Town Council may, from time to time,
upon its own motion or upon the petition of the Area Plan Commission, amend or
partially repeal the text of this chapter in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-4-602 et seq.
      (2)   Town Council action. In the case of proposal to amend or partially
repeal the text of this chapter or in the case of a zone map change, the Town
Council may act upon the amendment only after a report has been presented by
the Area Plan Commission after public notice and hearing in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-604 et seq.
      (3)   Town Council may initiate proposal. The Town Council may initiate
and also require the Area Plan Commission to: prepare a proposal to amend or
partially repeal the text of this chapter; or consider and recommend a proposal
for zone map change, and submit the amendment to a public hearing by the Area
Plan Commission within 60 days after formal written request by the Town
Council.
      (4)   Review procedure and time limits. The procedure for the referral of
a proposed amendment to the Area Plan Commission and the time limits for action
by the Area Plan Commission and the Town Council shall be as set forth in I.C.
36-7-4-607 et seq.
   (B)   Zone map amendments (a.k.a. rezoning petitions). The procedures and
requirements for the preparation and consideration of proposal to amend zone
maps shall be as follows:
      (1)   Zone map change.  Proposals to change the zone maps, whether by
incorporating an additional map or by amending or deleting a map, incorporated
by reference into this chapter may be initiated by the Town Council, the Area
Plan Commission, or by a petition of the owners of property
of at least 50% of the area involved in the petition in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-602 et seq.
      (2)   Filing of proposal.  A proposal for zone map change (a/k/a rezoning
petition) shall be filed in the office of the Town Council. The proposal shall
be on forms substantially as provided by the town and available from the Area
Plan Commission.
      (3)   Required plans. Each proposal for zone map change shall be
accompanied by 6 copies of a proposed site plan which conforms generally to the
requirements set forth in §
152.388, above.
      (4)   Referral to Area Plan Commission. The Town Council shall refer a
proposal for zone map change to the Area Plan Commission for public hearing and
recommendation.
      (5)   Supplemental plans. Depending on the nature of the proposal, the
Executive Director shall have the authority to request the submission of other
supplemental information, including, but not limited to building elevations,
sign plans, landscape plans, lighting plans, or traffic studies. If requested,
such additional building elevations, sign plans, landscape plans, or lighting
plans shall conform to the requirements set forth in §
152.388, above.
      (6)   Certification. After public hearing, the Area Plan Commission shall
certify the proposal with:
         (a)   A favorable recommendation;
         (b)   An unfavorable recommendation; or
         (c)   No recommendation.
      (7)   Commitments. The certification of a proposal by the Area Plan
Commission to the Town Council may include written commitments as set forth in
§
152.366(D). Such commitments may include: limitations upon certain uses;
requirements for specific building or parking area setback or screening;
requirements for specific site design features or project amenities; or
requirements that development conform with site plans, building elevations,
sign plans, landscape plans, or lighting plans which were submitted in
connection with the proposal.
      (8)   The Town Council may adopt or reject the proposal for zone map
change, as certified.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.05(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.390 VARIANCE AND SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROCEDURES.
   The procedures and requirements for the preparation and consideration of
petition for a variance of development standards or a special exception use
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Petitions.  Petitions for a variance of development standards or for a
special exception use shall be filed in office of the St. Joseph County/City of
South Bend Building Department/the Town Clerk- Treasurer of the Town of New
Carlisle, Indiana. The proposal shall be on the form provided, available in the
office of the Building Commissioner/from the town.
   (B)   Town referral. Each petition for a variance of development standards
or for a special exception use shall include a letter from the town describing
the nature of the variance or special exception required.
   (C)   Required plans. Each petition for a variance of development standards
or for a special exception use shall be accompanied by a site plan which
conforms to the requirements set forth in §
152.388, above.
   (D)   Supplemental plans. Depending on the nature of the petition, the
Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to request the submission of
plans of operation, traffic studies, radio frequency studies, or other
supplemental information including, but not limited to building elevations,
sign plans, landscape plans or lighting plans. If requested, the additional
building elevations, sign plans, landscape plans or lighting plans shall
conform to the requirements set forth in §
152.388, above.
   (E)   Variance of development standards.  The Board of Zoning Appeals, at a
public hearing, shall hear and determine all variances of development
standards.
   (F)   Special exception uses. Upon receipt of a petition for a special
exception use, the St. Joseph County/City of South Bend Building Department
shall forward a copy of the petition to the town. The Board of Zoning Appeals,
at a public hearing, shall hear and make a favorable recommendation,
unfavorable recommendation or no recommendation to the Town Council on all
special exception uses. The Town Council shall, approve or disapprove all
petitions for special exception uses within 60 days after the Board of Zoning
Appeals makes its recommendation. If the Town Council does not vote to deny the
petition for a special exception use within 60 days, the petition is approved.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.05(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.391 MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION OF COMMITMENTS.
   In those instances where a property owner wishes to request that commitments
which were entered into in connection with a development plan approval, zone
map change, PUD District ordinance, secondary approval of a PUD, modification
of permitted uses or development requirements of a PUD, variance, or a special
exception, be modified or terminated, the request for modification or
termination shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Form of filing. Such request shall be filed as an “Petition for
Modification or Termination of Commitments” with the body which permitted or
required the commitments (i.e., the Area Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning
Appeals).
      (1)   In the case of a modification or termination of commitments
permitted or required by the Area Plan Commission, the petition shall be on
forms provided by the office of the Area Plan Commission.
      (2)   In the case of a modification or termination of commitments
permitted or required by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the petitions shall be on
forms provided by the St. Joseph County/City of South Bend Building Department/
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Public hearing and notice. Each request for modification or
termination of commitments shall be determined after a public hearing. The
notification requirements and other procedural requirements for conducting the
public hearing on a modification or termination of commitments shall be the
same as for the initial public hearing at which the commitments were originally
permitted or required.
   (C)   Reasons for modification or termination. The petitioner or property
owner shall be responsible for presenting convincing evidence to the Area Plan
Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals as to the reasons, need, or
justification for the proposed modification or termination of commitments.
(Ord. 1221, § 10.05(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.392 COMBINED HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Area Plan Commission may designate a hearing examiner or Committee
of the Commission to conduct a combined hearing relative to developments that
require more than one hearing under this section.
   (B)   The decision to use this procedure shall be made by the applicant.
   (C)   In conducting a combined hearing, the hearing examiner or Committee of
the Commission may exercise the following:
      (1)   The powers of the Area Plan Commission in making recommendations to
the Common Council on rezoning petitions and text amendments under the I.C. 36-
7-4-600 series.
      (2)   The powers of the Plat Committee in approving or denying
subdivision plats under the I.C. 36-7-4-700 series.
      (3)   The powers of the Board of Zoning Appeals to grant variances and
make recommendations on special exceptions under the I.C. 36-7-4-900 series.
      (4)   The powers of the Executive Director, hearing examiner or Committee
of the Area Plan Commission as it concerns the approval of Development Plans
under the I.C. 36-7-4-1400 series.
   (D)   Dimensions of the hearing examiner or committee of the Area Plan
Commission under the combined hearing procedure may be excepted or appealed as
follows:
      (1)   Decisions made in relation to the powers granted under division (C)
(1) above may be appealed to the Area Plan Commission not later than five days
after the date the decision is made.
      (2)   Decisions made in relation to the powers granted under division (C)
(2) above may be appealed to the Area Plan Commission not later than five days
after the date the decision is made.
      (3)   Decisions made in relation to the powers granted under division (C)
(3) above may be appealed to the Area Plan Commission not later than five days
after the date the decision is made.
   (E)   The Area Plan Commission shall make rules governing the hearing of
cases under the combined hearing procedure. The rules may not require a
petitioner or an applicant to use the combined hearing procedure.
(Ord. 1270, passed 4-9-2013)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.405 AUTHORITY.
   The Zoning Administrator of the town is hereby designated to enforce the
terms and provisions of this chapter in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.406 ALLEGED VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Zoning Administrator of the town receives a complaint or has
reason to suspect that an alleged violation of the terms and provisions of this
chapter is occurring, the Zoning Administrator shall investigate the complaint
or suspicion and shall take whatever action is warranted in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.407 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part thereof and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is
in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter, may be held
responsible for the violation, suffer the penalties, and be subject to the
remedies herein provided.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(c), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.408 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator may enter upon any building, structure, or land
or part thereof at any reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting all
buildings, structures, or lands located within the corporate limits of the town
for the purpose of carrying out their duties in the enforcement of this
chapter. Prior to entering upon any premises, the Zoning Administrator shall
furnish sufficient identification and information to enable the owner, tenant,
or occupant to determine the purpose of the inspection and that the person
conducting the inspection is an authorized representative of the town.
   (B)   In the event that entry is denied by the owner, tenant, or occupant of
a premises, the Zoning Administrator may make application to any court of
competent jurisdiction for the issuance of a search warrant. The application
shall identify the premises upon which entry is sought and the purpose for
which entry is desired. The application shall state the facts giving rise to
the belief that a condition which is in violation of this chapter exists on the
premises, or that such a violation in fact exists and must be abated, and that
the condition or violation is not a lawful nonconforming use to the best of the
affiant’s belief. Any warrant issued pursuant to the application shall order
the owner, tenant, or occupant to permit entry to the Zoning Administrator for
the purposes stated therein.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.409 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   The Zoning Administrator is empowered to issue a cease and desist order
requiring the suspension of land improvement of any kind when any of the
following circumstances exist:
   (A)   A site improvement is occurring without an improvement location permit
or any other permit required by this chapter having first been obtained;
   (B)   A site improvement is occurring in violation of:
      (1)   The terms, conditions, or provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The terms and conditions of an improvement location permit;
      (3)   The terms and conditions of any other permit required as a pre-
requisite to the issuance of an improvement location permit;
      (4)   The terms, provisions, conditions, or commitments of a variance or
special exception use;
      (5)   Other approval grant authorized by this chapter; or
      (6)   Other applicable federal, state, or local law or ordinance.
   (C)   The cease and desist order shall be posted on the property in a
conspicuous place, or personally delivered to the owner, tenant, or occupant of
any building or land or part thereof and any architect, builder, contractor,
agent or other person who commits, participates in, assists, directs, creates,
or maintains any situation that is in violation of the terms and provisions of
this chapter and state the conditions under which construction or other
activity may be resumed. The Zoning Administrator shall meet with the recipient
of a cease and desist order upon request to explain the conditions under which
construction or other activity may be resumed.
   (D)   In addition to any other remedies available pursuant to any other
applicable law and this chapter, the Town Attorney, Zoning Administrator, or
appropriate enforcement official may institute a lawsuit in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of a cease and desist order,
including but not limited to injunctive relief.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.410 VIOLATIONS.
   Subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.067 on nonconforming lots, uses, buildings, structures of signs, each of
the following shall constitute a zoning violation which may be enforced by the
town in accordance with the provisions set forth in §
152.411 below:
   (A)   The location, erection, or maintenance of any sign not specifically
permitted by this chapter;
   (B)   The failure to obtain an improvement location permit when one is
required by the terms and provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   The outdoor storage of junk, trash, or debris in any district, the
provisions of which do not specifically permit such a use;
   (D)   (1)   The parking or storage in any district, the provisions of which
do not specifically permit such a use, of any:
         (a)   Motor vehicle used or designed for use in pulling, towing,
hauling, transporting; or
         (b)   Motor vehicle or separate trailer as a temporary or permanent
base, platform or support for equipment, machinery, materials, or other goods
(including but not limited to stake body trucks, dump trucks, trucks, or
tractors having dual real wheels or more than 2 axles, semi-trailer tractors,
semi-trailers and trailers having dual real wheels or more than 1 axle or
having an overall length of more than 12 feet).
      (2)   However, this provision does not apply to motor vehicles which do
not exceed 3/4 ton load classification in size and which are the primary source
of transportation for an individual whose primary place of residence is the
particular dwelling at which the commercial motor vehicle is parked on a
regular basis.
   (E)   The outdoor storage or display of merchandise or goods in any district
the provisions of which do not specifically permit such a use or in violation
of the district development standards regulating such a use;
   (F)   The conduct of any activity in a Residential District that is not
specifically enumerated as a permitted primary or accessory use in that
district, and which activity has not been legally established by a currently
valid special exception use or other approval grant;
   (G)   Failure to comply with district development standards, including but
not limited to landscaping, paving of parking areas, minimum parking space
requirements, minimum loading space requirements, trash dumpster enclosure,
fencing, landscaping, or screening requirements;
   (H)   The failure to comply with:
      (1)   The terms, provisions, conditions, or commitments of a variance
grant or special exception use grant;
      (2)   The terms of commitments made in connection with a zoning map
change or the approval of a development plan;
      (3)   The terms, provisions, or conditions of any other permit required
as a prerequisite to the issuance of a improvement location permit; or
      (4)   Other approval grant authorized by this chapter;
   (I)   The violation of a cease and desist order issued pursuant to this
subchapter; and
   (J)   Failure to comply with any other provisions of this chapter or other
applicable federal, state, or local law or ordinance.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(f), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.411 REMEDIES OR PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part
thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
commits, participates in, assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation
that is in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter as defined in
§
152.410, above, may be issued a citation by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of divisions (B) and (C), below, each day
a zoning violation remains uncorrected is a distinct and separate zoning
violation subject to an additional citation and fine in the amount prescribed
in this chapter.
   (B)   Procedures for initial notice of zoning violation or citation.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may issue a notice of zoning violation to
a person (i.e., any owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part
thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person) who
commits a zoning violation or allows a zoning violation to be committed on real
estate in which the person has a possessory interest. The notice of zoning
violation may be served by: personal service; certified mail, return receipt
requested; registered mail; or by posting the notice in a conspicuous place on
the property where the violation occurs, and shall serve as notice that a
zoning violation has been committed.
      (2)   No citation shall be issued unless notice as required by division
(B)(1) above has been provided at least 10 days before the citation is issued,
in order to allow the person receiving notice an opportunity to correct the
violation and to come into compliance with the terms and provisions of this
chapter, provided, however, the service of a notice of zoning violation and the
provision of time to correct the zoning violation is not required before
issuing a citation for: violation of a cease and desist order issued pursuant
to §
152.409; or violation of §
152.293(A)(7) or (A)(9) regarding signs or lights located on a wireless
telecommunications facility. If upon re-inspection, the zoning violation
remains unabated, a second notice of zoning violation may be served, or a
citation accompanied by the fines as specified in §
152.412, below, may be issued.
   (C)   Action after second notice or citation. A person (i.e., any owner,
tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part thereof and any architect,
builder, contractor, agent, or other person) who is served with a second notice
of zoning violation or receives a citation shall have 10 days from service of a
second notice of zoning violation or receipt of citation to take 1 of the
following actions:
      (1)   The person may elect to file a petition for zoning map change,
variance, special exception use or development plan approval to correct the
violation, in which case the person must indicate the intent to file such a
petition on the served second notice or citation and return a copy to the
Zoning Administrator or appropriate enforcement official. During the pendency
of the petition the issuance of additional notices or citations and additional
monetary fines as prescribed in §
152.412, shall be stayed. A person who files the petition within the time
period shall pursue the petition in an expeditious and diligent manner. If the
petition is denied, withdrawn or dismissed and the zoning violation continues,
then a lawsuit may be commenced by the Town Attorney, Zoning Administrator, or
appropriate enforcement official as provided by applicable laws; or
      (2)   The person or any other interested party may elect to appeal the
decision of the enforcement official pursuant to §
152.367(C) as an Administrative Appeal before the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Legal action for failure to correct violation. If an owner, tenant, or
occupant of any building or land or part thereof and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent or other person who is served with a second notice of zoning
violation or receives a citation fails to either correct the violation or take
such actions to come into compliance within 10 days as set forth in division
(B) above, then the Town Attorney, Zoning Administrator, or appropriate
enforcement official may institute legal action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce the terms and conditions of this chapter, including but
not limited to: enforcement of a cease and desist order as provided in §
152.409; assessment and collection of fines as provided in §
152.412; or the pursuit of injunctive and other equitable relief and remedies
available under state law.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(g), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.412 FINES.
   Monetary fines for zoning violations shall be assessed as set forth in §§
152.440 through
152.446 and the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(h), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.413 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   Seeking a penalty as authorized in this section does not preclude the
designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and additional relief
from the Court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive relief or any
other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of this chapter available
under applicable state law.
   (B)   In the event that a violation of this chapter is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner, tenant, or occupant of any
building or land or part thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent,
or other person who commits, participates in, assists, directs, creates, or
maintains any situation that is in violation of the terms and provisions of
this chapter shall be liable to the town for the town’s reasonable attorney
fees in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 11(i), passed 1-26-2010)
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
§ 152.425 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS.
   The language of this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the
following regulations:
   (A)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, limited liability company, corporation, or other legal
entity, as well as an individual;
   (B)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular, in each case,
if the context so requires;
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive;
   (D)   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended,”
“designed,” “constructed,” “altered,” or “arranged” to be used or occupied;
   (E)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot,” “tract,” or “parcel;” and
   (F)   Where a regulation involves 2 or more items, conditions, provisions or
events connected by the conjunction “and,” “or,” or “either... or,” the
conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
      (a)   “And” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply;
      (b)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singly or in any combination; and
      (c)   “Either... or” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (G)   The terms “more intense” and “less intense” are terms used herein to
describe relationships between particular districts. This relationship is based
upon the uses permitted within each district. A “more intense” district permits
more uses or a greater density of uses than a “less intense” district. District
intensity groupings progress from Agricultural, to Residential, to Commercial/
Town Center, to Industrial Districts, in the sequence listed within each group
of districts from least intense to the most intense.
(Ord. 1221, § 12.01, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.426 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms or words used in the text of this chapter shall have the
following meanings, unless a contrary meaning is either required by the context
of a particular sentence or phrase or specifically prescribed in a particular
sentence or phrase.
   ABANDONED. A condition that exists after a voluntary act or failure to act
by the owner of a nonconforming use which evidences that the owner neither
claims nor retains the right to exercise the nonconforming use.
   ACCESS. The way in which vehicles ingress and egress a lot from a street
fronting along the lot.
   ACCESS DRIVE. That area within the right-of-way between the pavement edge or
curb and the right-of-way line to provide ingress and egress to and from a lot.
   ACCESSORY (STRUCTURE, BUILDING, OR USE). A subordinate structure, building,
or use that is customarily associated with, and is appropriately and clearly
incidental and subordinate in use, size, bulk, area and height to the primary
structure, building, or use, and is located on the same lot as the primary
building, structure, or use.
   ACCESSORY PARKING LOT. See PARKING LOT, ACCESSORY.
   ADULT BUSINESS. See §§
152.330 through
152.332.
   ADULT CABARET. See CABARET, ADULT.
   AGRICULTURAL NONCONFORMING USE. An agricultural use of land that is not
permitted under this chapter, including any amendments hereto.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. An operation which consists of the following uses,
individually or in combination: the production of livestock or livestock
products, commercial aquaculture, equine or equine products, land designated as
a conservation reserve plan, pastureland, poultry or poultry products,
horticultural or nursery stock, fruit, vegetables, forage, grains, timber,
trees, bees and apiary products, tobacco, or other agricultural crops; uses
accessory to agricultural operations on the site; or uses accessory to
agricultural operations in the area.
   ALLEY, PRIVATE. A private right-of-way for public use as a secondary means
of public access to a lot otherwise abutting upon a public street or private
street and not intended for traffic other than public services and circulation
to and from the lot.
   ALLEY, PUBLIC. Any public right-of-way which has been dedicated or deeded to
and accepted by the public for public use as a secondary means of public access
to a lot otherwise abutting upon a public street and not intended for traffic
other than public services and circulation to and from the lot.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE.  Any establishment which keeps, maintains, or operates for
hire on the premises 4 or more amusement devices, including by way of example:
automatic baseball court, shooting gallery, pinball machines, tenpin machines,
electronic or video game machines, prize machines, and the like. An
establishment which has 4 or more amusement devices, and which establishment
does not dedicate and/or derive its business and/or income primarily from these
amusement devices, shall not be considered a controlled use.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER. Any indoor and/or outdoor establishment which keeps,
maintains, or operates for hire on the premises 1 or more recreational
activities, including by way of example: go-cart tracks, skateboard facilities,
water slides, model car or model railroad tracks, ice and roller skating rinks,
and the like. Establishments of this type generally charge fees for each
activity, and may include food, beverage, amusement arcade, and waiting areas.
   AMUSEMENT PARK. A primarily outdoor establishment which keeps, maintains,
and operates on the premises 1 or more recreational activities, including by
way of example: roller coasters, water
slides, merry-go-rounds, plays, dance shows, and any and all assortment of
mechanical rides, amusement booths, restaurants, and snack areas.
Establishments of this type generally have controlled access to the entire
facility, and have a general admission charge. Selected venues within the park
may have additional fees and/or charges and may include elements of an
amusement arcade and an amusement center.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device designed and used to:
      (1)   Receive direct broadcast satellite service, including direct-to-
home satellite services;
      (2)   Receive video programming services via multipoint distribution
services, including multichannel multipoint distribution services,
instructional television fixed services, and local multipoint distribution
services;
      (3)   Receive radio or television broadcast signals; or
      (4)   Collect or radiate electromagnetic waves, including both
directional antennas, such as panel antenna, and dish antenna, and
omnidirectional antennas, such as whip antennas, but not including satellite
earth stations.
   ANTENNA ARRAY. A structure attached to a telecommunications tower that
supports a telecommunications antenna.
   ANTENNA, DISH. A dish shaped device which may be freestanding or mounted on
a building or structure and is designed to receive direct broadcast satellite
service.
   ANTENNA, FLAGPOLE. A telecommunications tower designed to appear and
function as a large diameter flagpole where panel antenna are integrally
designed into and located inside of a telecommunications tower and are not
visible from the exterior. A FLAGPOLE ANTENNA may or may not include flying of
a flag. FLAGPOLE ANTENNA may be ground mounted or roof mounted.
   ANTENNA, NON-WHIP.  An antenna which is not a whip antenna, such as dish
antennas, panel antennas, and the like.
   ANTENNA, PANEL. A flat, rectangular antenna or antenna array designed to
concentrate a radio signal in a particular area. Panel antenna are also known
as directional antenna or sectored antenna.
   ANTENNA, RADIO/TELEVISION. A wire or combination of wires and support
structures designed for directly transmitting electric waves (broadcast radio
or television) into space, or receiving them therefrom.
   ANTENNA, SLICK. Panel antennas that are mounted directly to tapering
monopole telecommunications tower where the furthest point of the panel antenna
is no greater than 18 inches from the exterior of the tapering monopole
telecommunications tower.
   ANTENNA, STEALTH. An antenna or antenna array placed on or in an existing or
proposed building, structure, or telecommunications tower and designed or
placed in a manner intended to disguise, hide, or minimize the appearance of
the antenna or antenna array. A STEALTH ANTENNA may or may not have a secondary
function (e.g., bell tower, church steeple, spire, flagpole, clock tower,
cupola, and the like). STEALTH ANTENNA may include, but are not limited to:
flagpole antenna; slick antenna; or a surface-mount antenna with a color and
appearance that is compatible with or blends with the color and materials of
the surface of the building or structure to which the surface-mount antenna is
attached.
   ANTENNA, TELECOMMUNICATION. An antenna used to provide a telecommunications
service.
   ANTENNA, WHIP. An omnidirectional dipole antenna of cylindrical shape which
is no more than 6 inches in diameter.
   APPROVED HOTEL. See HOTEL, APPROVED.
   AREA BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals having
jurisdiction over all real property within the town.
   AREA PLAN COMMISSION. The Area Plan Commission of St. Joseph County,
established pursuant to the Area Planning Law of the state.
   ARTIFICIAL LAKE. Either:
      (1)   An artificially created body of water which is not required in
connection with a storm water management system; or
      (2)   That portion of an artificially created body of water developed in
connection with a storm water management system which exceeds the capacity
required to manage the 100-year storm event.
   ASSEMBLY (when used in reference to an industrial operation). The fitting
together of previously manufactured parts or sub-assemblies, that does not
require additional manufacturing or machining, into a finished item or unit.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any party duly authorized in writing by the owner of a
subject parcel to act on the owner’s behalf with respect to any development
petition, including but not limited to a petition for: zone map change;
platting of a subdivision; development plan approval; variance; special
exception use; or vacation of land in a plat.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Servicing and repairs which include muffler repair
or installation, brake repair or installation, shock replacement, transmission
repair, tire recapping, motor overhaul, or body or fender repair work (not
including the dismantling or wrecking of motor vehicles, or the storage of
inoperable, damaged, or wrecked vehicles, other than those awaiting immediate
repair).
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR.  Servicing and repairs limited to tune-ups, oil
changes, sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries, and other minor
maintenance operations.
   AWNING.  A roof-like cover, often of fabric, metal, plastic, fiberglass, or
glass designed and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative
embellishment, and which is supported by and projects from a wall or roof of a
building or structure over a window, door, sidewalk, walkway, or the like.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-144.jpg]
 
   BANNER.  See SIGN, BANNER.
   BAR. A premises used primarily for the sale or dispensing of liquor by the
drink for on-site consumption, and where packaged liquor may be sold or food
may be available for consumption on the premises as accessory to the primary
use.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building with an interior vertical height
clearance of not less than 78 inches and having 1/2 or more of its interior
vertical height clearance below grade level.
   BED & BREAKFAST. The commercial leasing of bedroom(s) for guest(s) within a
private, owner-occupied, single family dwelling unit or 2 family dwelling unit.
Such leasing provides temporary accommodations, typically including a morning
meal, to overnight guests for a fee. The leasing may also provide for the
temporary accommodation of daytime meetings or receptions for guests for a fee.
The leasing caters largely to tourists and the traveling public.
   BILLIARD HALL. See POOL HALL.
   BINGO. A game of chance as defined in I.C. 4-32.3-2-3, and all other games
of chance or other allowable events as regulated by I.C. 4-32.3.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, or municipal
boundary lines.
   BLOCK FACE. The frontage of a block, which may contain 1 or more lots, along
1 side of a public street or private street between intersections.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-146.jpg]
 
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. See AREA BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building or part of a building, other than hotels, motels,
restaurants, bed & breakfast, or multifamily dwellings, containing
accommodation facilities in common where lodging, typically with meals reserved
solely for the occupants thereof, is provided, whether or not for compensation.
   BUFFERYARD. See RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD.
   BUFFERYARD, FRONT. See RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD, FRONT.
   BUFFERYARD, REAR. See RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD, REAR.
   BUFFERYARD, SIDE. See RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD, SIDE.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard and lot
area requirements of this chapter have been met and in which development may
occur subject to compliance with all applicable development standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-148.jpg]
 
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind or nature.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner of the Town of New
Carlisle.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building or structure to the
highest point of the building (typically the roof) or structure; provided,
however, appurtenances such as chimneys, spires, cupolas, steeples, antenna
attached to a building or structure shall not be included in the calculation of
building height.
   BUILDING LINE.  A line parallel to any front lot line, side lot line, or
rear lot line which passes through the nearest point of any building or
structure.
   BUILDING LINE, FRONT. A line parallel to any front lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any side lot line.
   BUILDING LINE, REAR. A line parallel to any rear lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any side lot line.
   BUILDING LINE, SIDE. A line parallel to any side lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any front lot line or rear lot line.
   BUILDING MATERIAL. Exterior surface materials, exclusive of materials used
for: windows; doors; roofing; fascia; soffit; balconies; railings; handrails;
stairs; foundations; vents; and support beams or columns less than 18 inches in
width.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued in compliance with the terms and provisions
of the Building Code for the town.
   BUS. A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than 10 passengers,
exclusive of the driver.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise involving selling, storing or processing goods or
commodities or the rendering of services.
   BUSINESS DAY. A day when the offices of the town and the Area Plan
Commission of St. Joseph County are open to the public for the transaction of
business for the entire period of its normal operating hours.
   CABARET. A commercial establishment where persons congregate for the purpose
of eating, drinking, dancing or singing and where live musical or live
entertainment is provided.
   CABARET, 21 & OVER (a.k.a. CLASS A CABARET). Any cabaret, not including an
adult cabaret or a family cabaret, or family restaurant with lounge, which has
on the premises an area where:
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages are sold, bartered, exchanged, given away, or
furnished; and
      (2)   From which minors are excluded pursuant to I.C. 7.1-5-7-9, 7.1-5-7-
10 and 7.1-5-7-11.
   CABARET, ADULT (a.k.a. CLASS B CABARET). See §
152.332.
   CABARET, FAMILY (a.k.a. CLASS C CABARET). Any cabaret in which minors are
not excluded pursuant to I.C. 7.1-5-7-9, 7.1-5-7-10, and 7.1-5-7-11, and which
is not a 21 & over cabaret, an adult cabaret, or a family restaurant with
lounge.
   CALIPER. The diameter of a tree trunk, measured in inches, at 6 inches above
the ground.
   CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, metal, plastic, fiberglass, or
glass on a support, which is supported in total or in part, from the ground and
providing shelter over, for example, a doorway, outside walk, interior access
drive, or parking area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-150.jpg]
 
   CANOPY, VEHICULAR. A roofed, open, drive-through structure designed to
provide temporary shelter for vehicles and vehicle occupants while receiving a
business service.
   CARE GIVER. See DWELLING, CARE GIVER.
   CARE RECEIVER. See DWELLING, CARE RECEIVER.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure designed and intended to shelter the automotive
vehicle of occupant or owner of the premises, with at least 1 side open to the
weather.
   CASINO. A building, facility or room where any gambling games, not operated
by a qualified organization are conducted. (For reference see I.C. 4-32.3 et
seq.)
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued authorizing an occupancy
under the local Building Codes of the town.
   CHILD CARE. A service that provides for the care, health, safety, and
supervision of a child’s social, emotional, and educational growth.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A nonresidential building where at least 1 child receives
child care from a provider:
      (1)   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   For regular compensation; and
      (3)   For more than 4 hours but less than 24 hours in each of 10
consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays.
   CHILD CARE HOME.  
      (1)   A residential structure in which at least 6 children (not including
the children for whom the provider is a parent, stepparent, guardian,
custodian, or other relative or any child who is at least 14 years of age and
does not require child care) at any time receive child care from a provider:
         (a)   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian, or custodian;
         (b)   For regular compensation; and
         (c)   For more than 4 hours but less than 24 hours in each of 10
consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays.
      (2)   The term includes:
         (a)   A Class I child care home; and
         (b)   A Class II child care home as defined in state law.
   CHILD CARE MINISTRY. Child care operated by a church or religious ministry
that is a religious organization exempt from federal income taxation under
Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CHILD CARE PROGRAM, SCHOOL AGE. A program operated by a school corporation
or a nonprofit organization that offers care to children who are at least 5
years of age but less than 15 years of age for the following periods of time:
      (1)   Before or after the school day, or both;
      (2)   When school is not in session; or
      (3)   When school is in session for students who are enrolled in a half-
day kindergarten program.
   CLASS A CABARET. See CABARET - 21 AND OVER.
   CLASS B CABARET. See CABARET - ADULT.
   CLASS C CABARET. See CABARET - FAMILY.
   CLUB. An association or corporation:
      (1)   Organized, in good faith, under authority of law;
      (2)   Maintaining, in good faith, a membership roll of paid-up
membership:
      (3)   Owning, leasing, or occupying an establishment operated solely for
objects of a nation, social, patriotic, religious, political, or athletic
nature, or the like;
      (4)   Not operated for pecuniary gain;
      (5)   With property and advantages of the organization belonging to its
members;
      (6)   Where the sale or provision of alcoholic beverages, if undertaken,
is done pursuant to a club permit issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Commission.
   CO-LOCATION. The placement of 2 or more antenna or antenna arrays by
telecommunication service providers on a common support structure.
   COMMITMENT. A legally binding, written restriction on the use and
development of real estate entered into in connection with a petition for:
zoning map change; development plan approval; special exception; or variance.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The Comprehensive Plan for the town or any supplemental
or replacement comprehensive plan subsequently recommended by the Area Plan
Commission and adopted by the Town Council pursuant to state law.
   CONCEPT PLAN. An informal site plan of a proposed subdivision, project,
planned unit development or other development intended to convey the scope,
content and nature of a proposed development, but lacking sufficient detail to
determine compliance with chapter requirements.
   CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW. A cursory review of a concept plan or sketch plan for a
proposed subdivision, project, planned unit development or other development in
which staff provides initial review comments to a prospective petitioner on the
design and layout of a proposed subdivision, project, planned unit development
or other development.
   CONDOMINIUM.  A building, group of buildings, or portion thereof, in which
units are owned individually, and the structure, common areas, or facilities
are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis. (For reference
see I.C. 32-25.)
   CONFORMING. The state of being in compliance with the permitted use or
development standards regulations of the district to which the real estate is
zoned pursuant to this chapter.
   CONTROLLED USE. Any use recognized as having objectionable secondary
impacts. See §§
152.330 through
152.332 and Appendix A for a listing of CONTROLLED USES.
   COTTAGE BUSINESS/RESIDENTIAL. A business operated out of the same building
or tenant space as the primary dwelling unit of the proprietor when located in
a district which permits such mixed-use occupancy.
   COTTAGE SCHOOL. A private school which:
      (1)   Provides educational services for a maximum of 6 children at a
time;
      (2)   Is operated in a residential property; and
      (3)   Provides educational instruction for students between and including
grades K - 12.
   COUNTRY CLUB. Land area and buildings containing golf courses, recreational
facilities, clubhouse, and customary accessory uses, open only to members and
their guests.
   CUTOFF. A luminaire where light distribution does not exceed:
      (1)   Two and one-half percent above an angle of 90 degrees; and
      (2)   Ten percent at an angle between 80 degrees and 90 degrees.
   CUTOFF, FULL. A luminaire equipped with a light fixture (i.e., lamp, lens,
reflective surface, and the like) that does not protrude below the bottom edge
of the light fixture and is designed so that:
      (1)   No light is emitted above an angle of 90 degrees; and
      (2)   Light distribution does not exceed 10% at an angle between 80
degrees and 90 degrees.
   CUTOFF, NON. A luminaire where light distribution is unrestricted.
   CUTOFF, SEMI. A luminaire where light distribution does not exceed:
      (1)   Five percent above an angle of 90 degrees; and
      (2)   Twenty percent at an angle between 80 degrees and 90 degrees.
   DECK. A ground-supported, unenclosed, platform accessory structure, usually
constructed of wood, of which any permanent horizontal area(s) of the platform
is raised above grade level and is designed and intended for the recreational
enjoyment of the occupant(s) and guest(s) of the primary use or structure.
   DETAILED TERMS. The uses and development standards specified in a PUD
District ordinance with sufficient information from which to determine if an
improvement location permit application is in compliance with the use, area and
bulk regulations specified in the PUD District ordinance. Specific information
including but not limited to: permitted uses; gross density; frontage;
setbacks; minimum yards; use of yards; building height; parking area
requirements; loading area requirements; landscaping requirements; signs; open
space; building design and appearance requirements; and the like, is provided.
   DEVELOPED RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE. The total horizontal area of those
portions of a lot which are located outside of any required yard and which are
set aside and developed for the recreational use and enjoyment of all residents
of a project.
   DEVELOPMENT PETITION. Any petition or review process required by this
chapter prior to the issuance of a improvement location permit, including but
not limited to petitions for: zone map changes; variances; special exception
uses; primary plats; secondary plats; re-plats; vacations; or development
plans.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Specific plans development of property filed in connection
with development incentives review under the terms of this chapter. A
DEVELOPMENT PLAN may include but not be limited to: a site plan; landscape
plan; signs; lighting plans; building elevations; and pedestrian and vehicular
circulation plans, which are reasonably necessary to depict or describe certain
information and data as required by this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS. Permitted uses, development standards and any
additional requirement specified in this chapter which must be satisfied in
connection with the approval of a development plan.
   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. Area, bulk, height, setback, parking, loading,
landscaping, lighting, performance standards, building materials, pedestrian
and vehicular circulation, and other applicable regulations of a district
contained in this chapter which govern the physical development of real estate.
   DIRECTOR. See EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   DISTRICT. Any zoning district or overlay district applicable to a section of
the territory within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   DISTRICT, OVERLAY. A section of the territory within the jurisdiction of
this chapter in which additional requirements are imposed on certain properties
within one or more underlying zoning district.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A section of the territory within the jurisdiction of this
chapter for which uniform regulations over the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings, structures or land,
including, but not limited to: permitted uses; height; area; size; and
intensity of use of buildings, structures, land, and open spaces about
buildings or structures, are established by this chapter.
   DRAINAGE POND. An artificially created body of water which is required in
connection with a storm water management system.
   DRIVE, INTERIOR ACCESS. A way for internal vehicular movement in and around
an individual lot or integrated center.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY. A feature of an establishment which typically
includes an opening in the exterior of the building, or the use of pneumatic
dispatch or similar devices, which encourage or permit customers to receive
goods or services while remaining in or on a motor vehicle.
   DRIVEWAY.  Access for vehicular egress/ingress between the right-of-way of a
public street or private street and the minimum required setback line on a lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-152.jpg]
 
   DRIVEWAY, INTERIOR ACCESS. A way for vehicular egress/ingress between the
minimum required setback lines of separate lots or between lots within the
boundaries of an integrated center.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion of a building, which is designed or used
primarily for residential purposes, including a single family dwelling, 2
family dwelling, and multifamily dwelling but not including hotels, motels,
boarding houses, lodging houses, and bed & breakfast.
   DWELLING, ACCESSORY. A dwelling unit which is subordinate and incidental to
the primary use of a lot for a single family dwelling.
   DWELLING, CARE GIVER. A second dwelling unit located on a lot in a
Residential District which permits only 1 single family dwelling as a matter of
right and which is:
      (1)   Occupied by a family who provides weekly assistance to the family
residing in the permitted single family dwelling; and
      (2)   Approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals through the grant of a
special exception.
   DWELLING, CARE RECEIVER. A second dwelling unit located on a lot in a
Residential District which permits only 1 single family dwelling as a matter of
right and which is:
      (1)   Occupied by a family who receives weekly assistance from the family
residing in the permitted single family dwelling; and
      (2)   Approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals through the grant of a
special exception.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit which is fabricated in one or
more modules at a location other than the home site, by assembly-line type
production techniques or by other construction methods unique to an off-site
manufacturing process.
   DWELLING, MOBILE. A movable or portable dwelling unit that:
      (1)   Is fabricated in 1 or more modules at a location other than the
home site, by assembly-line type production techniques or by other construction
methods unique to an off-site manufacturing process;
      (2)   Is designed for occupancy by 1 family;
      (3)   Is erected or located as specified by the town Building Code; and
      (4)   Was either:
         (a)   Constructed prior to June 15, 1976; or
         (b)   Constructed subsequent to or on June 15, 1976 and bears a seal,
certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Standards law.
   DWELLING, MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit which is fabricated in 1 or more
modules at a location other than the home site by assembly-line type production
techniques or by other construction methods unique to an off-site manufacturing
process, provided that the dwelling unit must have been built in compliance
with the Indiana One and Two Family Dwelling Code and the Town Building Code.
   DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A building consisting of 3 or more dwelling units,
including condominiums, with varying arrangements of entrances and party walls.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY.  An individual, detached building containing 1
dwelling unit which is either:
      (1)   Built in compliance with the Indiana One and Two Family Dwelling
Code and the Town Building Code;
      (2)   A modular dwelling; or
      (3)   A manufactured home dwelling.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A building consisting of 2 dwelling units which may be
either attached side by side or one above the other, and each dwelling unit
having a separate or combined entrance.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only 1 family and its household employees,
including provisions for sleeping, lawful cooking, and sanitary facilities. The
term shall include mobile dwellings, modular dwellings and manufactured
dwellings but shall not include recreational vehicles.
   EIA-222. Electronics Industries Association Standard 222, “Structural
Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Support Structures.”
   ELECTRONIC VARIABLE MESSAGE SIGN (EVMS). See SIGN, ELECTRONIC VARIABLE
MESSAGE.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a date
for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to
privately perform a striptease for another person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business who furnishes, offers to furnish, or
advertises to furnish escorts as a primary business purpose for a fee, tip, or
other compensation.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission of
St. Joseph County, or the designee of the Executive Director of the Area Plan
Commission of St. Joseph County.
   FAÇADE.  That portion of any exterior elevation of a building, extended from
grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves, and extending the entire width
of the building elevation.
   FAÇADE, FRONT. The façade of a building which is oriented toward a front lot
line of the lot on which the building is located.
   FAÇADE, REAR. The façade of a building oriented toward a rear lot line of a
lot on which the building is located.
   FAÇADE, SIDE. The façade of a building oriented toward a side lot line of a
lot on which the building is located.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal adoption,
foster care or guardianship, living and cooking together as a single
housekeeping unit, exclusive of incidental domestic servants and temporary,
non-compensating guests; or not more than 2 persons not so related, living and
cooking together as a single housekeeping unit. A person or persons residing
with a family as hereinabove defined by reasons of placement by a publicly
licensed placement agency shall be considered as members of that FAMILY.
   FAMILY RESTAURANT. See RESTAURANT, FAMILY.
   FAMILY RESTAURANT WITH LOUNGE. See RESTAURANT, FAMILY, WITH LOUNGE. 
   FLAG. See SIGN, FLAG.
   FLOOR AREA.  
      (1)   For single family dwellings and 2 family dwellings, the sum of all
horizontal surface areas of all floors of all roofed portions of a building
enclosed by and within the surrounding exterior walls or roofs, or the
centerline(s) of party walls separating the buildings or portions thereof. The
floor area of such a building shall exclude all areas with a vertical height
clearance less than 78 inches, exterior open balconies, and open porches.
      (2)   For multifamily dwellings, the sum of all horizontal surface areas
of all floors of all roofed portions of all buildings enclosed by and within
the surrounding exterior walls or roofs, or the centerline(s) of party walls
separating the buildings or portions thereof. However, the floor area of such a
building shall not include the following:
         (a)   All areas with a vertical height clearance less than 78 inches;
         (b)   All exterior open balconies and open porches;
         (c)   Floor area or basement floor area devoted to off-street parking
or off-street loading, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space;
         (d)   Floor area or basement floor area provided for recreational
uses, available to occupants of 2 or more dwelling units within a project; or
         (e)   Basement FLOOR AREA provided for storage facilities, allocated
to serve individual dwelling units with a project.
   FLOOR AREA, FINISHED. That portion of floor area constructed, completed and
usable for living purposes with normal living facilities which includes
sleeping, dining, cooking, sanitary, or combination thereof. A floor area or
portion thereof used only for storage purposes and not equipped with the
facilities mentioned above shall not be considered FINISHED FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  
      (1)   For dwelling units, the total area, computed on a horizontal plane
inclusive of finished basements, attached garages, entrances, hallways,
stairways, and other enclosed areas, but exclusive of unfinished basements,
cellars, and attics.
      (2)   For commercial or industrial buildings or structures, the sum of
all horizontal surface areas of all floors of a building or structure measured
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls
separating abutting buildings or structures.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS LEASABLE. The portion of the gross floor area which is
designated for the exclusive use and occupancy of a tenant.
   FLOOR AREA, MAIN. That portion of the finished floor area located on the
first floor of the dwelling unit.
   FOUNDATION LANDSCAPING. Landscaping installed along or in relation to the
perimeter foundation of a building or structure.
   FOUNDATION LANDSCAPING AREA. The area along or in proximity to the perimeter
foundation of a building or structure which is required to be set aside for the
installation of foundation landscaping.
   FRATERNITY HOUSE.  A building containing sleeping rooms, bathrooms, common
rooms, and a central kitchen and dining room maintained exclusively for
fraternity members and their guests or visitors and affiliated with an
instruction of higher learning.
   FRONT FAÇADE. See FAÇADE, FRONT.
   FRONTAGE. The line of contact of an abutting property with the street right-
of-way along a front lot line which allows unobstructed, direct access to the
lot.
   FRONTAGE STREET or FRONTAGE ROAD. See STREET, FRONTAGE.
   FULL CUTOFF. See CUTOFF, FULL.
   GAMBLING GAME. Any of the activities governed by the State Gaming Commission
as a wagering device set forth in I.C. 4-33-2-9, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   GAME COURT. In Residential Districts, a type of recreation facility which
consists of an unpaved or paved, accessory, surface area of ground open and
essentially unobstructed to the sky, on the same lot as the primary building,
designed and intended for the playing of a recognized sport as an accessory,
recreational activity by the occupants and guests of the primary building,
which may include fencing, screening, nets, goals, or other necessary
appurtenances required for recreational use.
   GARAGE. An accessory building to a residential use, or an enclosed area
attached to or integrated into a residential building, which is primarily
designed and intended to be used for the storage of the private vehicle(s) for
the occupant(s) of the residence and is not a separate commercial enterprise
available to the general public.
   GARAGE, PARKING. See PARKING GARAGE.
   GARAGE SALE. A public or private sale conducted by the owner or occupier of
a premises of 6 or more items of personal property owned by the owner or
occupier of the premises, which personal property was not acquired by the owner
or occupier for the purpose of resale.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. Any building, land area or other premises or
portion thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sales
of vehicular fuels, which may include as an accessory use: minor automotive
repairs; the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, or batteries; car
washes; and similar uses. The establishments shall provide a facility where
gasoline and other motor fuels are stored and subsequently dispensed by means
of fixed, approved dispensing equipment by customers or employees.
   GENERAL TERMS. The uses and development standards expressed in a PUD
District ordinance (such as designations of areas in terms of: units per acre;
multifamily; retail; office; and the like) which do not provide sufficient
information from which to be able to determine if an improvement location
permit application for a particular development is in compliance with the use,
area and bulk regulations for the PUD District ordinance. Detailed information
regarding: permitted uses; gross density; frontage; setbacks; minimum yards;
use of yards; building height; parking requirements; loading requirements;
landscaping requirements; sign information; open space; building design and
appearance requirements; and the like, are not specified.
   GLARE. The harsh appearance of a direct source of light as discernible from
adjacent properties and which causes annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual
performance and visibility.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land laid out for at least 9 holes for playing the
game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways and hazards, and may
include a clubhouse or shelter (with ancillary pro shop, food service, locker
room facilities, fitness center, and the like). See also COUNTRY CLUB.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground 5 feet from
the building, structure or proposed building pad; provided, however, when
referring to “street grade” the term GRADE shall mean the slope of a street
specified in percentage (%) terms.
   GREENBELT. An open space along the perimeter of a development, subdivision
or project which is maintained in its natural vegetative state and which, at a
minimum, contains sufficient vegetation to meet or exceed perimeter landscape
yard requirements.
   GREENWAY. May include any of the following:
      (1)   A linear open space established along either a natural corridor
(i.e., a riverfront, stream valley or ridge line) or over land (i.e., along a
railroad right-of-way, a canal, a scenic road, or other route) converted to or
available for recreational use;
      (2)   Any natural or landscaped course for pedestrian or bicycle passage;
or
      (3)   An open space connector linking parks, natural features, cultural
features, or historic sites with each other or with residential, employment or
shopping areas, which are designated on an officially adopted plan of the town
or the county.
   GROUP HOME. A residential facility for children which, in addition to
providing food and shelter, may also provide some combination of personal care,
social services, counseling services, or transportation to residents and is
licensed by the state.
   GROUP RESIDENCES. A residential facility which, in addition to providing
food and shelter, may also provide some combination of personal care, social
services, counseling services or transportation to residents. GROUP RESIDENCES
would include student housing, halfway houses, work release houses or any other
similar form of residential facility for individuals which do not qualify as a
family or any other form of residential facility expressly provided for in this
chapter.
   GUN AND GUNSMITH SHOPS. Any location where firearms or ammunition are being
sold or repaired as the primary business items.
   HALF STORY. See STORY, HALF.
   HEDGE PLANT. A woody plant of relatively low height (not exceeding 10 to 12
feet in height), branching from the base.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, structure, object, district, land use, area
or site of historical significance and designated as an historic landmark on
the historic preservation plan.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The research protection, maintenance, restoration,
rehabilitation, reconstruction or development of historic landmarks and
Historic Preservation Districts. For the purposes of this chapter, this
definition shall apply to the preservation of exterior features only.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission
established under the provisions of this chapter.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT. A geographically definable area with a
significant consideration of buildings, structures, sites, spaces, or objects
unified by past events, physical development, design, setting, materials,
workmanship, a sense of cohesiveness, or related historic association and
designated as an historic preservation district on the historic preservation
plan.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or business activity carried on within a
legally established dwelling unit by a resident of the dwelling.
   HOTEL. Any building or group of buildings containing 5 or more rooms without
direct entrance to or from the outside, designed or intended to be occupied for
sleeping purposes by guests for a fee, often with general kitchen and dining
room facilities provided within the building or an accessory building, and
which caters to the traveling public.
   HOTEL, APPROVED. A hotel where gambling may be conducted, and contains: at
least 250 rooms, or a lesser number established by the State Gaming Commission;
an indoor public space used for exhibit space; meeting rooms; banquet rooms;
restaurants; lobbies; lounges or bars; show theaters; parking areas; and shops.
This definition shall also include the definition of “approved hotel” contained
in I.C. 4-33-2-3, as that definition may be amended from time to time.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Any man-made, immovable item which becomes part of, placed
upon, or is affixed to real estate.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement, or moving of a building or structure, and uses
thereof, complies with the provisions of this chapter, or a building permit
which includes a site plan review or which authorizes the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement, or movement of any sign.
   INCIDENTAL.  A minor occurrence or condition which is customarily associated
with a permitted use and is likely to ensue from normal operations.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. An integrated center zoned for and primarily used by
industrial businesses. See INTEGRATED CENTER.
   INTEGRATED CENTER. An area of development (commercial/town center,
industrial, or any combination of commercial/town center, industrial, and
residential uses) of 1 or more lots or out lots, comprised of:
      (1)   Two or more individual, non-related and separately operated uses in
1 building sharing common site facilities;
      (2)   One or more buildings containing non-related and separately
operated uses occupying a common site, which utilizes 1 or a combination of
common site facilities, such as driveways, parking areas, loading areas,
interior access drives, maintenance, and similar common services; or
      (3)   One or more buildings containing non-related and separately
operated uses occupying individual sites, which are interrelated by the
utilization of 1 or a combination of common facilities, such as driveways,
internal public street or private street network developed in accordance with
an approved master plan or preliminary plan of a subdivision, parking areas,
loading areas, maintenance, or other services.
   INTERIOR YARD. See YARD, INTERIOR.
   JUNK YARD. Any place at which personal property:
      (1)   Is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale, or reduction or similar
disposition;
      (2)   Is owned, possessed, collected, accumulated, dismantled, or
assorted (including but not limited to: used or salvaged base metal or metals,
their compounds or combinations; used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags,
glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick and similar property except animal
matter; and used motor vehicles, machinery or equipment which does not carry a
current, valid license); or
      (3)   Is used, owned, or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   LAWFUL COOKING. A room or area in which food may be prepared and cooked and
which contains the following:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
an approved water supply and approved sewer/septic system. The sink must
provide an adequate amount of water under pressure, both unheated and heated to
no more than 120ºF;
      (2)   Cabinets, shelves, counters, or tables used for storage of food,
eating, drinking, or cooking equipment and utensils shall be of sound condition
furnished with surfaces that are easily cleanable and that will not impart any
harmful effect to food; and
      (3)   A stove, oven, or microwave oven for cooking food and a
refrigerator for safe storage of food at temperatures less than 45ºF. These
appliances shall be properly installed with all necessary connections for safe,
sanitary, and efficient operation and shall be maintained in good working
condition.
   LEGALLY ESTABLISHED. The condition of being in compliance with all
applicable development regulations at the time of recording, construction or
erection of a lot, building, structure, use, or sign.
   LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING.  See NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR
STRUCTURE, LEGALLY ESTABLISHED OR NONCONFORMING USES, LEGALLY ESTABLISHED.
   LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment whose primary business, in terms of
gross floor area or sales, is related to the sale of alcoholic beverages. A
grocery store or drug store which sells alcoholic beverages, but whose sales of
such beverages is incidental to the overall gross floor area or sales receipts
of the business, shall not be considered a LIQUOR STORE.
   LOADING AREA. Any area maintained and intended for the maneuvering and
temporary parking of vehicles while transferring goods or materials to and from
a facility. LOADING AREA includes the loading space and maneuvering area
required to enter the loading space.
   LOADING, OFF-STREET.  A loading area located completely on a lot and
accessed via interior access drives, interior access driveways, access drives,
or driveways in which no individual loading spaces gain direct access to a
public street or private street.
   LOADING SPACE.  A hard-surfaced, off-street area used for the temporary
parking of a commercial vehicle while transferring goods or materials to and
from a facility.
   LOT.  
      (1)   A piece, parcel, plot, or tract of land designated by its owner or
developer to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single ownership
or control and may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record; or
         (b)    A combination of complete lots of record.
      (2)   For purpose of this definition, the ownership of a LOT is further
defined to include:
         (a)   The person(s) who holds either fee simple title to the property
or is a life tenant as disclosed in the records of the assessor; or
         (b)   A long-term lessee (but only if the lease is recorded among the
records of the St. Joseph County Recorder and has a term (exclusive of non-
exercised extensions and renewals) of at least 25 years remaining before its
expiration at the time of applying for a permit).
      (3)   Provided, however, for the purposes of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance, the term LOT shall mean that portion of a subdivision which is
proposed to be recorded in the office of the St. Joseph County Recorder as a
LOT OF RECORD.
   LOT AREA.  The total area of a lot bounded on all sides by any front lot
line, rear lot line, and side lot line, provided, however, LOT AREA shall not
include: any area lying within the right-of-way of any public street or private
street or easement for surface access into the subject lot or adjoining lots;
or land reserved for drainage pond, wetland, or lands subject to periodic
flooding. No part of the minimum lot area required under the applicable
district, commitment, variance grant, or development plan approval may be
satisfied by land that is under water.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-154.jpg]
 
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot abutting 2 or more streets at their intersections, or
upon 2 parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total ground area within the lot or project covered by the
primary structure plus any accessory structures (including decks over 30 inches
above grade, above-ground pools, in-ground pools, garages, carports, storage
sheds, or any under roof areas), excluding driveways, walkways, fences, grade
level decks and patios, and walls not attached in any way to a roof.
   LOT DEPTH.  The distance from the midpoint of the front lot line to the
midpoint of the rear lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot abutting 2 parallel streets, or abutting 2
streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot which is not a corner lot or a double frontage lot.
   LOT LINE. The line of separation of a lot from any abutting street or
adjoining lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from any abutting street or
limited access highway.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line, or in the case of a triangularly shaped lot, a line 10 feet in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line. However, in the case of a corner lot, any lot line which intersects with
a front lot line shall not be considered a REAR LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not designated as a front lot line or rear lot
line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a final plat recorded in the office of
the Recorder of St. Joseph County, or for which a deed has been so recorded
prior to May 6, 1958.
   LOT WIDTH. The full width of a lot measured along the minimum front yard and
minimum building setback line required by this chapter.
   LUMINAIRE. A complete lighting unit consisting of a lamp or lamps together
with the parts designed to distribute light on any property, to position and
protect the lamps and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
   LUMINOUS TUBE LIGHTING. Gas-filled tubing which, when subjected to high
voltage, becomes luminescent in a color characteristic of the particular gas
used, e.g., neon, argon, and the like.
   MANUFACTURE. The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substances into new products or into a useable form. MANUFACTURE may include
the creation of products (including subsequent assembly of previously
manufactured parts), or the blending of materials such as lubricating oils,
plastics, resins, or liquors.
   MANUFACTURED HOME DWELLING. See DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MANUFACTURING RETAILER. A food sales and service establishment which where
food or beverage products are produced in a limited quantity (not industrial
manufacturing) sufficient to support on-site sales as a primary or accessory
portion of the on-site business. Examples include confectioners, bakeries and
brew pubs.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading or tapping by hand or mechanical device.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including message therapy by a licensed health professional and
establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical culture studios,
massage studios, or massage parlors. Any MASSAGE BUSINESS which involves any
specified anatomical areas or any specified sexual activities shall be deemed
an adult business.
   MASTER PLAN.  A drawing, map, plan, or other graphic representation of an
overall project, drawn to an appropriate scale by hand or other drawing method,
but containing sufficient detail to depict the patterns proposed for an overall
project and to determine general compliance with the use and development
standards provisions of this chapter.
   MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.  The height which a building or structure may not
exceed. See also BUILDING HEIGHT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-156.jpg]
 
   MET TOWER.  A meteorological tower used for the measurement of wind speed.
   MINI (SELF STORAGE) WAREHOUSE. A building or structure designed and used for
the purpose of renting or leasing individual storage spaces to occupants who
are to have access to such for the purpose of storing and removing personal
property.
   MINOR. A person less than 21 years of age.
   MOBILE DWELLING. See DWELLING, MOBILE.
   MOTEL. Any building or group of buildings containing 5 or more rooms with at
least 25% of all rooms having direct entrance to and from the outside without
the necessity of passing through the main lobby of the building(s), designed
and intended to be occupied for sleeping purposes by guests for a fee, where
general kitchen and dining room facilities may be provided within the building
or an accessory building, and which caters to the traveling public.
   NEIGHBORHOOD RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A site where individuals bring
household recyclable materials to either drop off without compensation, or, to
redeem the materials for monetary compensation. Beyond any limited sorting, no
other processing of the materials takes place at the site. All materials are
stored completely within the structure while awaiting periodic shipment to the
processing facilities. While these collection points may be developed as
freestanding sites, they typically are accessory uses sharing the site of a
larger primary use. Possible structures for this type of operation include such
recycling containers as “igloos,” reverse vending machines, trailers, or
similar structures.
   NIGHTCLUB. An establishment: offering liquor by the drink or food for on-
site consumption; and in which music, dancing, or entertainment is conducted.
   NONCONFORMING.  The state of not being in compliance with the permitted use
or development standards regulations of the district to which the real estate
is zoned pursuant to this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure erected or
constructed but which fails to conform to the present requirements of the
district.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, LEGALLY ESTABLISHED. Any continuous,
lawfully established building or structure erected or constructed:
      (1)   Prior to the time of adoption, revision or amendment of this
chapter but which fails by reason of the adoption, revision or amendment to
conform to the present requirements of the district;
      (2)   Pursuant to a granted variance; or
      (3)   Prior to a right-of-way acquisition or access rights acquisition by
a governmental entity but which fails by reason of the right-of-way acquisition
or access rights acquisition by a governmental entity to conform to the present
requirements of the district.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any land use which fails to conform to the present
requirements of the district.
   NONCONFORMING USE, LEGALLY ESTABLISHED. Any continuous, lawful land use
having commenced:
      (1)   Prior to the time of adoption, revision, or amendment of this
chapter but which fails by reason of the adoption, revision, or amendment to
conform to the present requirements of the district; or
      (2)   Pursuant to a granted variance.
   NON-CUTOFF.  See CUTOFF, NON.
   NON-WHIP ANTENNA. See ANTENNA, NON-WHIP.
   OCCUPANCY. The use to which a building or premises is devoted.
   OFF-STREET. An area, typically set aside for parking or loading, which is
located on private property and does not occur in the right-of-way of any
public street or private street.
   ON-STREET. An area, typically set aside for parking or loading, which is
located within the right-of-way of any public street or private street.
   OPEN SPACE.  A lot, a portion of a lot or common area set aside as a
playground, plaza, park, parkway, greenbelt, residential bufferyard, or other
landscape area and maintained free from buildings or structures, except for
those structures which are directly related to and essential to the use of the
open space for recreational purposes, including, but not limited to swimming
pools, play equipment for youngsters, game courts, and picnic tables. In the
case of individual residential lots, open space shall be an area landscaped
with grass, trees, shrubbery, or other suitable vegetative ground cover and
maintained free from buildings or structures.
   OUT LOT.  
      (1)   The portion of land in a integrated center, industrial park, or
other planned development which does not contain the central or primary
building of the development and is:
          (a)   Usually located adjacent to a street or frontage street; and
         (b)   Is intended for the development of a smaller, additional, and
separate building or buildings.
      (2)   In an integrated center or industrial park where there is no
clearly identifiable central or primary building of the development, or where
individual lots are developed independently of each other, each lot shall be
considered an OUT LOT; provided, however, for the purposes of the Subdivision
Control Ordinance, the term OUT LOT shall mean a non-buildable portion of a
subdivision.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY AREA. The part of lot used for the display of merchandise or
goods available for purchase or lease from the business located on that lot.
   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE. Any outdoor electrically powered illuminating
devices, outdoor light, or reflective or refractive surfaces, lamps, and
similar devices, including all parts used to distribute the light or protect
the lamp, permanently installed or portable, used for flood lighting, general
illumination, or location identification.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. See STORAGE, OUTDOOR.
   PARK. An open space designed and used by the public for passive or active
recreational use.
   PARK, ACTIVE.  An open space improved with active recreational facilities,
including but not limited to: tennis or basketball courts; softball, baseball,
football, or soccer fields; slides; playgrounds, and the like, and maintained
for the continued use and enjoyment of area residents.
   PARK, PASSIVE. An open space improved with passive features, including but
not limited to park benches, picnic tables, gazebos, and the like, and
maintained for the continued use and enjoyment of area residents.
   PARKWAY. An open space entirely bounded by street or pedestrian rights-of-
way within a developed area.
   PARKING AREA. Any area other than an open exhibition or display area (not
inclusive of interior access drives, driveways, interior access driveways and
access drives) intended for the temporary storage of automotive vehicles,
including parking spaces and the area allocated to the egress/ingress of
automotive vehicles to and from the actual parking space.
   PARKING GARAGE. Any building or structure designed and intended for the
storage of motor vehicles for compensation.
   PARKING LOT. The primary use or accessory use of a lot or a portion of a lot
for the parking of automotive vehicles.
   PARKING LOT, ACCESSORY. The use of a lot in a Residential District as a
parking lot where the parking lot is accessory to a permitted use which is
either: located on an adjacent lot in a Commercial/Town Center District or
Industrial District; or located in a Commercial/Town Center District or
Industrial District separated from the lot in a Residential District by a
street or alley not over 30 feet in width. Such ACCESSORY PARKING LOTS are
intended to create an effective buffer between residential uses and a
commercial/town center or industrial use and, where practical, are developed in
compliance with all off-street parking standards and all landscaping standards
applicable parking lots in a Commercial/Town Center District or Industrial
District.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. A parking area located completely on a lot and accessed
via interior access drives, interior access driveways, access drives, or
driveways in which no individual parking spaces gain direct access to a public
street or private street.
   PARKING, ON-STREET.  A parking area located partially or completely within
the right-of-way of a public street or private street.
   PARKING SPACE.  That portion of the parking area used only for the temporary
placement of an operable motor vehicle.
   PATIO.  A hard-surfaced area accessory structure to a primary use or
structure of which the horizontal area is at grade level with at least 1 side
open to the weather and essentially unobstructed to the sky. This area is
specifically designed and intended for the recreational enjoyment of the
occupant(s) and guest(s) of the primary use or structure and is not designed or
intended for use by automotive vehicles.
   PENNANT. See SIGN, PENNANT.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. A legally binding agreement whereby the developer or
subdivider posts a surety for the construction of improvements, installations,
and lot improvements required by this chapter, any other applicable ordinances
of the town, and any requirements, covenants, conditions, or commitments which
may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   PERMITTED USE. The use of land or the use of a building or structure on land
which is allowed, either as a matter of right or under limited conditions
(i.e., as a special exception use, an accessory use, a home occupation, or a
temporary use) in the district applicable to the land.
   PLAN COMMISSION. A commission established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.,
and which is responsible for: making recommendations regarding adoption and
amendments to the Comprehensive Plan; making recommendations regarding adoption
or text amendments of the initial zoning ordinance, replacement zoning
ordinance, and subdivision control ordinance; making recommendations regarding
adoption or amendment of a PUD District ordinance; making recommendations
regarding zone map changes; rendering decisions concerning plats, re-plats and
amendments to plats; making determinations regarding development plans; and
other duties or powers authorized by I.C. 36-7-4 et seq., and ordinance. See
also AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   PLAN REVIEW COMMITTEE (PRC). A committee of technical consultants
established to provide the Executive Director, Building Commissioner/Zoning
Administrator with technical assistance in the review of plans for compliance
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable rules and regulations of
federal, state, or local agencies.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A site to be developed, operated, or maintained as
a single entity and containing 1 or more residential areas, public areas,
quasi-public areas, commercial areas or industrial areas, and containing a
range of uses as specified in the PUD District ordinance.
   PLAYGROUND. An open space which contains an active recreational area with a
variety of facilities, including equipment for younger children, game courts,
and fields for games.
   PLAZA. An open space that may be improved and landscaped, usually surrounded
by streets or buildings.
   POOL HALL or BILLIARD HALL. Any establishment which keeps, maintains or
operates for hire on the premises 4 or more pool or billiard tables.
   PORCH. A roofed accessory structure with at least 1 side exposed to the
weather, supported from the ground and attached to or part of a building at the
area of entrance or exit to the building.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing, map, plan, or other graphic representation of a
planned unit development, drawn to an appropriate scale by hand or other
drawing method, but containing sufficient detail to depict the general land use
patterns, major street network, and generalized infrastructure proposals
proposed for the planned unit development. A PRELIMINARY PLAN may be
supplemented with text to provide sufficient details to determine applicable
permitted use and development standards provisions for the planned unit
development.
   PRIMARY BUILDING. The building in which the primary permitted use of the lot
is conducted.
   PRIMARY USE. A permitted use of land or a permitted use of a building or
structure on land which is allowed as a matter of right in the district
applicable to the land, subject only to compliance with the development
standards applicable to that district.
   PROJECT. A single use site, integrated center, mixed use development, single
family dwelling subdivision, 2 family dwelling subdivision, multifamily
development, or any other form of development of real estate.
   PROJECT AREA.  The total land area of a site, less area included in: the
existing right-of-way or proposed right-of-way of a perimeter street; and the
area included in floodway or other undevelopable portions of the site.
   PROPOSED SITE PLAN. A plan drawn to scale, showing uses and structures
proposed for a parcel of land, as required by this chapter.
   PUD. See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   PUD DISTRICT ORDINANCE. A petition for zone map change which designates a
parcel of real property as a planned unit development, specifies uses or a
range of uses permitted in the planned unit development, specifies development
requirements in the planned unit development, specifies plan documentation and
supporting information that may be required prior to development in a planned
unit development, and specifies any limitations applicable to the planned unit
development.
   REAR FAÇADE. See FAÇADE, REAR.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent
foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and primarily designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use,
including but not limited to: travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers,
self-propelled motor homes; personal watercraft; and boats.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A receptacle designed and intended for the collection
of cleaned, sorted, solid household waste products, including, but not limited
to glass, plastic, metal, and paper.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A recycling operation involving further processing
(relative to a neighborhood recycling collection point) of materials to improve
the efficiency of subsequent hauling. Such a facility typically features
sorting, the use of a crushing apparatus, and the storage of the material until
it is shipped out.
   RELIGIOUS USE. A land use and all buildings and structures associated
therewith devoted primarily to the purpose of divine worship together with
reasonably related accessory uses, which are subordinate to and commonly
associated with the primary use, which may include but are not limited to
educational, instructional, social, residential, or child care ministry uses.
   RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD. A front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
nonresidential land use on a lot which faces or abuts a Residential District or
residential land use designation within a planned unit development. A
RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD may include landscape plantings, fences, walls, or berms
required to provide screening or buffering for adjacent residential properties.
A RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD shall not apply to any front yard abutting a limited
access highway.
   RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD, FRONT. The front yard of a nonresidential land use
on a lot which faces or abuts a Residential District. See also RESIDENTIAL
BUFFERYARD.
   RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD, REAR. The rear yard of a nonresidential land use on
a lot which faces or abuts a Residential District. See also RESIDENTIAL
BUFFERYARD.
   RESIDENTIAL BUFFERYARD, SIDE. The side yard of a nonresidential land use on
a lot which faces or abuts a Residential District. See also RESIDENTIAL
BUFFERYARD.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The processing of solid waste into commercially valuable
materials or energy.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. Any family restaurant or fast food restaurant designed
to permit or facilitate the serving of food or beverages directly to, or
permitted to be consumed by patrons in or on motor vehicles parking or stopped
on the premises.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-THROUGH. Any family restaurant or fast food restaurant
designed to permit or facilitate the serving of food or beverages directly to
patrons in or on motor vehicles at a drive-through facility.
   RESTAURANT, FAMILY. Any establishment whose main business function is the
retail sale of food for consumption on the premises, and which does not have on
the premises an area from which minors are excluded pursuant to I.C. 7.1-5-7-9,
7.1-5-7-10, and 7.1-5-7-11 or pursuant to any policy of the establishment.
   RESTAURANT, FAMILY, WITH LOUNGE.  Any family restaurant which has on the
premises an area constituting not more than 25% of the gross floor area from
which minors are excluded pursuant to I.C. 7.1-5-7-9, 7.1-5-7-10, and 7.1-5-7-
11 or pursuant to any policy of the establishment.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal business is the sale
of pre-prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a ready-
to-consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building, on-
premises or off-premises.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Specific and particularly described land, property, or
interest therein devoted to and subject to the lawful use, typically as a
thoroughfare for passage of pedestrians, vehicles, or utilities, as set forth
in a written grant, declaration, or conveyance that is recorded in the office
of the Recorder of St. Joseph County.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, EXISTING. The total right-of-way width of a street as created
or expanded by the most recent grant, declaration, or conveyance that is
recorded in the office of the Recorder of St. Joseph County.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PRIVATE. Specific and particularly described strip of
privately-held land devoted to and subject to use for general transportation
purposes or conveyance of utilities, whether or not in actual fact improved or
actually used for those purposes, as set forth in a written grant, declaration,
or conveyance that is recorded in the office of the Recorder of St. Joseph
County.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PROPOSED. The recommended right-of-way width for a street
based upon that street’s classification in the thoroughfare plan for the town,
as shown in the Comprehensive Plan.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. Specific and particularly described strip of land,
property, or interest therein dedicated to and accepted by the municipality,
county or state to be devoted to and subject to use by the general public for
general transportation purposes or conveyance of utilities whether or not in
actual fact improved or actually used for those purposes, as set forth in a
written grant, declaration, or conveyance that is recorded in the office of the
Recorder of St. Joseph County.
   ROOF MOUNT. The placement of an antenna, antenna array, or flag pole on the
roof of an existing building or structure.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL.  A review of a planned unit development required when
the development requirements of a planned unit development are expressed only
in general terms in the PUD District ordinance.
   SEMI CUTOFF. See CUTOFF, SEMI.
   SEMI-TRAILER. A freight trailer, tanker, or other large vehicles or
machinery with a forward portion designed to be supported by a fifth wheel
device of a truck tractor when in motion.
   SETBACK. That distance measured perpendicularly from the lot line to the
closest point of the building, structure, sign structure, parking area, or any
other permanent improvement.
   SETBACK LINE. A line that establishes the minimum distance that a building,
structure, or portion thereof, can be located from a lot line or right-of-way
line.
   SETBACK, MAXIMUM. The largest distance allowed by this chapter from a front
lot line for the location of a building, structure, or any other permanent
improvement (excluding parking areas).
   SETBACK, MINIMUM.  The smallest distance required by this chapter from a lot
line to the closest point of a building, structure, sign structure, parking
area, loading area, storage area, or any other permanent improvement. A MINIMUM
SETBACK may be a minimum front setback, minimum side setback, or minimum rear
setback. The distance shall be measured perpendicularly from the lot line.
   SETBACK, MINIMUM FRONT.  The minimum distance required by this chapter from
a front lot line to the closest point of the building, structure, sign
structure, parking area, loading area, storage area, or any other permanent
improvement. The distance shall be measured perpendicularly from the front lot
line.
   SETBACK, MINIMUM REAR. The minimum distance required by this chapter from a
rear lot line to the closest point of the building, structure, sign structure,
parking area, loading area, storage area, or any other permanent improvement.
The distance shall be measured perpendicularly from the rear lot line.
   SETBACK, MINIMUM SIDE. The minimum distance required by this chapter from a
side lot line to the closest point of the building, structure, sign structure,
parking area, loading area, storage area, or any other permanent improvement.
The distance shall be measured perpendicularly from the side lot line.
   SIDE FAÇADE.  See FAÇADE, SIDE.
   SIDEWALK. A defined pedestrian way which is typically constructed of
concrete, separated from and located parallel to the improved surface of a
public street or private street, and located within a right-of-way of the
street.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display, structure, fixture, placard,
announcement, declaration, demonstration or insignia, or part thereof, used to
draw attention; provide direction, information, identification; or advertise,
identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an object, person,
institution, organization, business, product, service, event or location by any
means, including words, letters, figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors,
illumination or projected images.
   SIGN, A-FRAME. A portable sign containing 2 sign faces and whose framing is
hinged at the apex at an angle less than 45 degrees.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. See SIGN, OFF-PREMISES.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign, or any portion thereof, which moves, assumes any
motion, uses a change in lighting to depict motion or create a special effect
or scene, or gives the illusion of moving.
   SIGN, AWNING. Any sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion attached
directly to the material of an awning.
   SIGN, BALLOON.  A temporary sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight
material which is either filled with a gas lighter than air; or continuously
filled with blown air, and designed to rise or float in the atmosphere or is
attached to the ground or a building.
   SIGN, BANNER. A sign of lightweight fabric or similar material mounted to a
pole or building at 2 opposite edges or 4 corners.
   SIGN, BUILDING. Any sign placed upon or supported by a building, including,
by way of example but are not limited to wall signs, projecting signs, awning
signs, canopy signs, marquee signs, suspended signs, and roof signs.
   SIGN CABINET. The frame of an internally illuminated sign which contains and
supports the sign face. SIGN CABINET does not apply to painted signs or 1-
piece, non-illuminated, individual letter signs.
   SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion attached
directly to a canopy.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY.  A sign, or portion thereof, where the message copy
includes characters, letters, or illustrations that can be physically altered
without altering the primary surface of the sign. The message copy of a
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN may be changed manually in the field or through remote
electronic or electric techniques. Methods of changing the message copy include
the use of:
      (1)   Changeable letters, numbers, symbols, and similar characters;
      (2)   Changeable pictorial panels; or
      (3)   Rotating panels or other similar devices. See also SIGN, ELECTRONIC
VARIABLE MESSAGE.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC VARIABLE MESSAGE (EVMS). A sign, or portion thereof, where
the message copy includes characters, letters or illustrations that can be
changed or rearranged electronically without touching or physically altering
the primary surface of the sign. Message copy may be changed in the field or
from a remote location.
   SIGN FACE. See SIGN SURFACE.
   SIGN, FLAG. A sign of lightweight fabric or similar material mounted to a
pole or building at 1 edge or 2 corners.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign that is attached to, erected on or supported by
some structure (such as a pole, mast, or frame) that is not itself an integral
part of or attached to a building or structure where the principal function of
the building or structure is something other than the support of a sign. See
also SIGN, MONUMENT and SIGN, POLE.
   SIGN, GROUND.  See SIGN, MONUMENT.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign relating to the lot or use thereof which provides
information or directions necessary or convenient for visitors coming on the
lot, including but not limited to signs marking entrances and exits, parking
areas, circulation direction, restrooms and pickup or delivery areas.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign or graphic printed on or attached directly to a
marquee.
   SIGN, MENU BOARD. A permanent sign located in connection with a drive-
through facility, which is oriented toward motor vehicles located in a drive-
through lane, and which provides information to the occupants of motor vehicle,
related to the products and services available at the drive-through facility.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-158.jpg]
 
   SIGN, MONUMENT. Any freestanding sign constructed in or on the ground
surface with its sign display surface extending upward from the ground surface
and which has the lowest portion of the sign display surface elevated by no
more than the lesser of 5 feet above grade or 1/2 the overall height above
grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-160.jpg]
 
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. A sign which qualifies as a legally established
nonconforming structure.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to an activity, business,
entertainment, commodity, product, profession or service conducted,
manufactured, offered, or sold at a location other than the premises on which
the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to an activity, business,
entertainment, commodity, product, profession, or service conducted,
manufactured, offered, or sold on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. See SIGN, OFF-PREMISES SIGN.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR DISPLAY AREA. A sign located within an outdoor display area
and which directs attention to or provides information about the display area
or the good, products, or merchandise on display.
   SIGN, PENNANT. A sign of lightweight plastic, fabric, or other similar
material which is suspended from a rope, wire or string, usually in a series,
and which is designed to move in the wind.
   SIGN, POLE. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has the lowest portion of its sign display
surface elevated by more than 10 feet above the grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-162.jpg]
 
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign or sign structure not securely attached to the
ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported from
place to place, including but not limited to signs transported by means of
wheels; a sign attached to A- or T-frames; a temporary menu and sandwich board
sign; a balloon used as a sign; table or patio umbrellas which include a sign;
and a sign attached to or painted on a vehicle parked and visible from the
public right-of-way, unless the vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day
operation of the business.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is affixed to a building or wall in such a
manner that the leading edge extends more than 18 inches beyond the surface of
the building or wall face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-164.jpg]
 
   SIGN, PYLON. See SIGN, MONUMENT.
   SIGN, ROOF.  Any sign erected on or wholly constructed upon a roof of any
building and supported solely on the roof structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-166.jpg]
 
   SIGN, SPANDREL.  Any sign that is a part of or attached to the spandrel.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including any pole, base, foundation, support,
tie rods, upright, bracing, or framework which supports or is capable of
supporting any sign.
   SIGN SURFACE. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN SURFACE AREA. The area of a sign surface (which is also the sign
surface area of a wall sign or other sign with only 1 sign face). Sign surface
area shall be computed by using the smallest area contained within 1, 2, or 3
distinct squares, rectangles, or combination thereof that will encompass the
extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or other display,
together with any material or color forming an integral part of the background
of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure
against which the sign is placed, but not including any supporting framework,
bracing 24 inches in width or less, or any decorative fence or wall when the
fence or wall otherwise meets the applicable regulations of this chapter and is
clearly incidental to the display itself.
   SIGN, SUSPENDED. Any sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is connected to the horizontal plane surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-168.jpg]
 
   SIGN, T-FRAME. A portable sign utilizing an inverted “T” style of framing to
support the sign.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY.  Any sign or sign structure which is not permanently
affixed or installed, and is intended to be displayed for limited periods only.
Examples of TEMPORARY SIGNS include but are not limited to signs erected or
placed in connection with the following activities or occurrences. sale or
lease of real estate; announcement of pending construction; special event;
political campaign; garage sale; home improvement/remodeling; model home; and
seasonal/holiday signs.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to or erected on a wall of a building or
structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the plane
of the wall, within 18 inches of the wall, and containing only 1 sign surface.
   SIGN, WIND.  A sign of lightweight fabric or similar material attached at
one end to a pole or similar apparatus so as to swing freely, inflate, and
flutter by movement of the wind.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign placed inside of and within 2 feet of a window; or
upon a window; and is intended to be seen from the exterior of the window.
   SINGLE USE SITE. An area of development (commercial/mixed use or industrial)
on 1 lot occupied by 1 business. Any commercial/mixed use or industrial
development which does not qualify as an integrated center.
   SKETCH PLAN. A graphic representation of a project or subdivision, drawn to
an appropriate scale by hand or other drawing method, and capable of depicting
the general pattern proposed for the development of a project or subdivision.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (SWECS).  
      (1)   A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind turbine with
its associated tower and control or conversion electronics, which has a rated
capacity of not more than 10 kilowatts (kW) each, and whose dual purpose is to:
         (a)   Primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power; and
         (b)   Produce clean, on-site energy for homes, farms, and businesses.
      (2)   A SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM can consist of a system
either designed to be firmly anchored into the ground using a self-supporting
tower, or firmly anchored to the sides or roof of the primary or accessory
structure, or a combination thereof.
   SORORITY HOUSE.  A building containing sleeping rooms, bathrooms, common
rooms, and a central kitchen and dining room maintained exclusively for
sorority members and their guests or visitors and affiliated with an
instruction of higher learning.
   SPANDREL.  A roof-like structure that covers the gasoline pump dispenser,
serves as a second-tier canopy, may be a lighting source for the dispensing
area, may identify the gasoline pumps by numerical or other designation, and
may display signs.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any of the following occurrences: commencement of
construction; fairs, carnivals, circus or festivals; grand openings;
Independence Day; Labor Day; listing of properties for sale or lease; Memorial
Day; posting of notices at the direction of a governmental agency; Presidents’
Day; Veterans’ Day; or other occurrence officially recognized by the town as a
special event for the town.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE. The use of land or the use of a building or structure
on land which is allowed in the district applicable to the land only through
the grant of a special exception.
   STAFF. Shall include: the Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission;
the Building Commissioner for the Town of New Carlisle; the Zoning
Administrator for the Town of New Carlisle; any employee of the Area Plan
Commission; any attorney, agent or designee of the Executive Director of the
Area Plan Commission; any attorney, agent, or designee of the Building
Commissioner for the Town of New Carlisle; any attorney, agent, or designee of
the Zoning Administrator; or any other employee of the Town of New Carlisle
related to the review, recommendation, or approval process for development.
   STORAGE, OUTDOOR.  The storage of any product, goods, equipment, machinery,
vehicles, boats, supplies, building materials or commodities, including raw,
semi-finished and finished materials for a period of time in excess of 1 week,
the storage of which is not accessory to a residential use; provided, however,
that vehicular parking and the display of automobiles, boats, trucks or farm
equipment associated with a legally established dealership shall not be deemed
OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   STORY.  The part of a building, with an open height of no less than 78
inches, except a mezzanine, included between the upper surface of one floor and
the lower surface of the next floor, or if there is no floor above, then the
ceiling next above. A basement shall constitute a STORY only if it provided
finished floor area. A STORY shall not include a mechanical penthouse.
   STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, gambrel or hip roof, to wall plates of
which on at least 2 opposite exterior walls, are not more than 2 feet above the
floor of the story.
   STREET. Any public right-of-way or private right-of-way, with the exception
of alleys, essentially open to the sky and open and dedicated to the general
public for the purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to
abutting property, whether referred to as a street, lane, road, drive,
expressway, arterial, thoroughfare, highway, or any other term commonly applied
to a right-of-way for those purposes. A STREET may be comprised of pavement,
shoulders, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, parking spaces, and similar features.
   STREET, FRONTAGE. A street located along side and generally parallel with a
more heavily traveled street and which provides access to abutting property or
properties.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A privately-held right-of-way, with the exception of
alleys, essentially open to the sky and open to the general public for the
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to abutting
property, whether referred to as a street, easement, road, expressway,
arterial, thoroughfare, highway, or any other term commonly applied to a right-
of-way for those purposes. A PRIVATE STREET may be comprised of pavement,
shoulders, curbs, sidewalks, parking spaces, and similar features.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A publicly dedicated, accepted, and maintained right-of-way,
with the exception of alleys, which has been improved to town standards and is
essentially open to the sky and open to the general public for the purposes of
vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to abutting property, whether
referred to as a street, lane, road, drive, expressway, arterial, thoroughfare,
highway, or any other term commonly applied to a public right-of-way for those
purposes. A PUBLIC STREET may be comprised of pavement, shoulders, gutters,
curbs, sidewalks, parking spaces, and similar features.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location on
the ground. Among other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes,
fences, walls, parking areas, loading areas, towers, antenna and signs.
   STRUCTURE MOUNT. The placement of an antenna or antenna array on an existing
structure such as a water tower, athletic field light standards, or electric-
line transmission towers.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owner, developer, or authorized agent of the owner or
developer of real estate, who is responsible for all designs, reservations, and
improvements related to the petition for primary or secondary plat approval or
the development of a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into 2 or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, plats, or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions, including resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the
division or development of land opened for residential and nonresidential uses,
whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease, map,
plat, or other recorded instrument.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any of the following:
      (1)   A subdivision of a tract of land into 4 or more parcels or lots,
including any remainder of the original tract, for single family or 2 family
dwelling purposes; or
      (2)   Any subdivision which involves the creation of new streets,
extension of water lines or sewer lines, or the creation of public
improvements; or
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of a tract of land into less than 4
parcels or lots, including any remainder of the original tract, which does not
involve the creation of new streets, extension of water lines or sewer lines,
or the creation of public improvements.
   SUBDIVISION, NONRESIDENTIAL INCREMENTAL. A subdivision of a tract of land,
including any remainder of the original tract, for any commercial, industrial,
or special exception use which is submitted for primary and secondary plat
approval through the incremental plat approval process.
   SUB-LOTS. Portions of a lot of record created in connection with the
transfer of ownership of individual dwelling units in a 2 family or multifamily
dwelling.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-170.jpg]
 
   SURFACE MOUNT.  The placement of an antenna or antenna array on the existing
or proposed surface of a building or structure.
   TAVERN. See BAR.
   TATTOO, BODY PIERCING, SCARIFYING, AND BRANDING ESTABLISHMENTS. All types of
businesses where services are provided which include: deliberately scarring,
burning, or pricking the skin so as to leave a mark or a color that cannot be
removed without a surgical procedure. This includes: figurative tattooing;
permanent coloring; scarifying and branding; and the piercing of the human body
to create a permanent hole (excluding ear piercing services).
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission between or among points specified by
the user of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA. See ANTENNA, TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The offering of telecommunications for a fee
directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively
available directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure more than 10 feet tall, built
primarily to support 1 or more telecommunications antennas.
   TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS. A manufactured home dwelling or mobile dwelling
located on a lot and intended to serve as a temporary dwelling unit for a care
giver; care receiver; or family in the process of building a permanent single
family dwelling on a lot.
   TEMPORARY SEASONAL RETAIL SALES. A temporary use established for a fixed
period of time, for the retail sale of seasonal products, including but not
limited to such items as food, Christmas trees, pumpkins, and live plants. A
TEMPORARY SEASONAL RETAIL SALES use may or may not involve the construction or
alteration of any permanent building or structure.
   TEMPORARY USE. A land use established for a limited and fixed period of time
with the intent to discontinue the use upon the expiration of the time period.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. That portion of the Town Comprehensive Plan, or other
officially adopted plan of the town, which sets forth recommendations for major
street alignments and street classifications.
   TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment whose primary business, in terms of
gross floor area or sales, is related to the sale of tobacco products. A
grocery store, convenience store, gasoline service station or drug store which
sells tobacco products, but whose sales of the products is incidental to the
overall gross floor area or sales receipts of the business, shall not be
considered a TOBACCO STORE.
   TOWN. The Town of New Carlisle, Indiana.
   TOWN ENGINEER. The Town Engineer of the Town of New Carlisle.
   TOWNHOUSE. A multifamily dwelling with: all dwelling units constructed in a
row; with each dwelling unit having an individual front and rear ingress and
egress; and no dwelling unit located over another dwelling unit.
   TRAILER. A non-automotive vehicle designed to be hauled on the road.
   TRANSFER STATION. A facility where solid waste is transferred from a vehicle
or container to another vehicle or container for transportation. The term does
not include the following:
      (1)   A facility where the solid waste that is transferred has been
generated by the facility; or
      (2)   A recycling facility.
   TRUCK. A motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. An area and buildings used for the temporary parking of
motor freight vehicles or trucks of common carriers during unloading and
loading of cargo or freight and where cargo and freight may be broken down or
aggregated into smaller or larger loads for transfer to other vehicles or modes
of transportation.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. A truck equipped with a fifth wheel device for the towing of
a semi-trailer, tanker, or other vehicles or machinery.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. An accessory structure which is at least 75%
subterranean, utilized for storage of personal property or as a temporary
shelter for people, such as a storm cellar or fallout shelter.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land, buildings, or structures are
designed, arranged, or intended or which land, buildings, or structures are
occupied or maintained.
   USE, PERMITTED. See PERMITTED USE.
   VARIANCE.  Permission granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals to depart from
the literal requirements of this chapter.
   VEHICULAR CANOPY. See CANOPY, VEHICULAR.
   WAGERING, OFF-TRACK PARI-MUTUEL FACILITY.  A location, other than a
racetrack, authorized by the Indiana Horse Racing Commission, at which pari-
mutuel wagering is conducted.
   WAIVER/WAIVED. Permission granted in connection with the approval of a
development plan; the approval of a primary plat for a subdivision; or a
special exception, to allow a deviation from the development standards or
development requirements of this chapter.
   WALKWAY. A defined pedestrian way, typically improved with concrete or
asphalt, which provides for pedestrian movement on private property. A WALKWAY
may or may not be located in an pedestrian easement.
   WAREHOUSE.  A building or structure, including but not limited to a
distribution center and truck terminal, for the storage and/or transfer of
goods, materials, or products awaiting shipment to another location for
wholesale or retail trade.
   WHIP ANTENNA. See ANTENNA, WHIP.
   WINDBLOWN DEVICE. Any banner, pennant, spinner, streamer, propeller, disc,
moored blimp, gas balloon, or flag that is designed to inform or attract
attention, whether or not the device carries a message, all or part of which is
set in motion by or remains inflated by wind, mechanical, electrical, or any
other means.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. Any combination of equipment that converts
and then stores or transfers energy from the wind into usable forms of energy
and includes any base, blade, foundation, generator, nacelle, rotor, tower,
transformer, turbine, vane, wire, or other component used in the system. A WIND
ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM includes but is not limited to a small wind conversion
system and a wind energy facility.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY. An electricity generating facility consisting of 1 or
more commercially-rated wind turbines under common ownership or operating
control, and whose main purpose is to supply electricity to off-site customer
(s), and includes but is not limited to substations, MET towers, cables/wires
and operations and maintenance buildings accessory to the facility. Also known
as a WIND FARM or a WIND POWER PLANT.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any facility constructed by or
constructed for use by a licensed wireless telecommunication service provider
and which consists of the equipment and structures involved in the receiving
and transmitting of electromagnetic waves associated with wireless
telecommunication services.
   YARD. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully across the lot
while situated between the front lot line, side lot line, or rear lot line and
the established front building line, side building line, or rear building line.
   YARD, AGGREGATE SIDE. The total combined distance of both side yards on an
individual interior lot or double frontage lot.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully across
the lot while situated between the front lot line and the established front
building line.
   YARD, INTERIOR. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending out from
the wall of a multifamily dwelling.
   YARD, MINIMUM. An open space unobstructed to the sky, extended fully across
the lot situated between a lot line and a setback line. MINIMUM YARD may be a
front yard, a side yard, or a rear yard, depending on which lot line the
minimum yard abuts and is measured from.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6adf2f1d6bfa97baa99eeae779d34c9e3ae943e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-172.jpg]
 
   YARD, PERIMETER. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully
across the lot while situated between any front lot line, side lot line, and
rear lot line and the minimum front setback, minimum side setback, and minimum
rear setback.
   YARD SALE.  See GARAGE SALE.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully across
the lot while situated between a side lot line and the established side
building line.
   YARD, REAR. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully across
the lot while situated between the rear lot line and the established rear
building line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The individual(s) designated by the Town Council in
this chapter as having the responsibility for the interpretation and
administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 1221, § 12.02, passed 1-26-2010)
FINES
§ 152.440 INTENT.
   This subchapter establishes the monetary fines for zoning violations which
may be assessed against those who violate the terms and conditions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 14, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.441 ALL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The monetary fine for the first citation for a zoning violation shall
be as set forth in the Fee Schedule, Chapter 98. Monetary fines as set forth in
the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98 shall apply for each subsequent citation:
 
Second Citation Minimum as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98
Third Citation  Minimum as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98
                Not to exceed a $300 increase in the previously assessed
Each additional monetary fine, to a maximum monetary fine for each citation as
                set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98
 
   (B)   Each day that a zoning violation remains uncorrected shall constitute
a violation which may result in the issuance of a subsequent citation.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 14(a), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.442 ALL COMMERCIAL/TOWN CENTER DISTRICTS AND ALL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The monetary fine for the first citation for a zoning violation shall
be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98. The following monetary fines shall apply for each subsequent
citation:
 
                     Minimum fine per day that the zoning violation remains
Second Citation      uncorrected, as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                     Chapter 98
                     Minimum fine per day that the zoning violation remains
Third Citation       uncorrected, as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                     Chapter 98
                     Not to exceed a $300 increase in the previously assessed
                     monetary fine for each day that the zoning violation
Additional Citations remains uncorrected, to a maximum monetary fine for each
                     zoning violation as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                     Chapter 98 per day that the zoning violation remains
                     uncorrected
 
   (B)   Each day that a zoning violation remains uncorrected shall constitute
a violation which may result in the issuance of a subsequent citation.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 14(b), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.443 ALL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
152.413(A) or (B), to the contrary, the monetary fine for the first citation
for a zoning violation of §
152.293(A)(7) or §
152.293(A)(9) regarding signs or lights located on a wireless
telecommunications facility shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
Chapter 98.
   (B)   The following monetary fines shall apply for each subsequent day that
the zoning violation remains uncorrected:
 
Second Day      Minimum and maximum as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98
Third Day       Minimum and maximum as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98
Fourth Day      Minimum and maximum as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98
Fifth Day       Minimum and maximum as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98
                Minimum fine, not to exceed an increase of $300 per day in the
                previously assessed monetary fine for each day that the zoning
Additional Days violation remains uncorrected, to a maximum monetary fine for
                each zoning violation as set forth in the Fee Schedule,
                Chapter 98 per day that the zoning violation remains
                uncorrected
 
(Ord. 1221, Art. 14(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.444 PAYMENT OF ALL FINES PRESCRIBED BY THIS SUBCHAPTER FOR ZONING
VIOLATIONS.
   All fines prescribed by this subchapter for zoning violations shall be paid
as follows:
   (A)   To the General Fund of the town; and
   (B)   The person making the payment shall receive a receipt stating the
amount and purpose for which the fine has been paid, a duplicate of which shall
be made a part of the records of the town.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 14(d), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.445 FAILURES OF PERSON WHO RECEIVES A CITATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   If a person who receives a citation fails to do the following divisions (A)
through (C) of this section, the Town Attorney, Zoning Administrator, or
appropriate enforcement official may file a lawsuit as provided by applicable
law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Pay the assessed fine within:
      (1)   In a Residential District, 14 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   In a Commercial/Town Center District or Industrial District, 7 days
after the issuance of a citation; or
      (3)   For a wireless telecommunications facility, 5 days after the
issuance of a citation or day upon which a fine has accrued.
   (B)   File a petition as prescribed in §
152.411(C)(1); or
   (C)   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed in §
152.411.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 14(e), passed 1-26-2010)
§ 152.446 VIOLATIONS IN A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT.
   In the event of a citation for a zoning violation in a Planned Unit
Development District, fines shall be assessed based upon the use authorized for
the property on which the violation has occurred. Any property approved for
residential uses only shall be assessed as if the property was located in a
Residential District. Any property approved for commercial/town center
development or industrial uses shall be assessed as if the property was located
in a Commercial/Town Center District or an Industrial District. Any property
used for a wireless telecommunications facility shall be assessed as specified
above for a wireless telecommunications facility.
(Ord. 1221, Art. 14(f), passed 1-26-2010)
APPENDIX A: PERMITTED USE TABLE
KEY:
P    =   Permitted use
SE    =   Special exception use
-    =   Not permitted
CU   =   Controlled use
Use R1 R2 MF OB LB CB TC LI GI PUD
Use                                                                 R1 R2 MF OB LB CB TC LI GI PUD
Abrasive, asbestos, metallic, and nonmetallic mineral products,                             P
manufacture of
Adult business (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                           SE    SE SE
152.332)
Aerobics studio                                                              P  P  P  P  P  P
Agriculture seed sales                                                          P  P     P  P
Airport and landing fields - public or private                                              P
Amusement arcade (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                        P  P     P  P
152.332)
Amusement park                                                                           P  P
Antique shop                                                                    P  P  P
Apparel shop                                                                    P  P  P
Appliance store                                                                 P  P  P
Appliances, manufacturing and assembly                                                   P  P
Architect                                                                    P  P  P  P
Art gallery                                                                     P  P  P
Artificial lake                                                     P  P  P  P  P  P     P  P
Artist office                                                                   P  P  P
Arts and craft store                                                            P  P  P
Asphalt products                                                                            P
Asphaltic paving materials preparation                                                      P
Assembly or repair of previously manufactured parts, sub-assemblies                      P  P
or components
Assembly halls                                                                     P     P  P
Assisted living facility                                                  P     P  P
Athletic fields                                                     SE SE       P  P     P  P
Audio or video tape products or equipment                                                   P
Automobile - painting and customizing                                              P     P  P
Automobile - parts sales (new)                                                  P  P  P  P  P
Automobile quick oil change facility                                            P  P  SE P  P
Automobile - rental service                                                     P  P     P  P
Automobile repair - major                                                       P  P     P  P
Automobile repair - minor                                                       P  P  SE P  P
Automobile sales and service                                                    P  P     P  P
Bait sales                                                                      P  P     P  P
Bakery - retail                                                                 P  P  P  P  P
Bank machines - drive-through                                                   P  P     P  P
Bank machines - free-standing                                             P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Bank machines - walk-up                                                   P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Bank, savings & loan, credit union, financial institutions                   P  P  P  P  P  P
Banquet hall                                                                    P  P     P  P
Bar/tavern (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                        P  P  P  P  P
152.332)
Barber shop                                                                     P  P  P  P  P
Batch plant (asphalt or concrete production)                                                P
Batteries, manufacture of                                                                   P
Beauty shop                                                                     P  P  P  P  P
Bed & breakfast                                                     SE SE P     P  P
Billiard/pool hall (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                        P  P  SE P  P
152.332)
Bicycle sales and service                                                       P  P  P
Bicycles and parts, manufacture of                                                          P
Biological products, manufacture of                                                         P
Blast furnace or open hearth                                                                P
Boarding house                                                      SE SE P
Boat sales, service and storage                                                 P  P     P  P
Boats and personal watercraft, manufacture of                                               P
Boiler tank, manufacture of                                                                 P
Bolts, nuts, rivets, and washers, manufacture of                                            P
Book store (legitimate)                                                         P  P  P
Bottled gas equipment, manufacture of                                                       P
Bottled gas storage and distribution                                                        P
Bottling of beverages, food, and milk                                                       P
Bowling alley                                                                   P  P     P  P
Brewing, distillation of liquor and spirits                                                 P
Bulk storage                                                                                P
Bus station                                                                        P     P  P
Bus terminal w/ repair                                                                   P  P
Cabaret, 21 & over (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                        P  P  P  P  P
152.332)
Cabaret, adult (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                                 SE SE
152.332)
Cabinets, manufacture of                                                                    P
Camera store                                                                    P  P  P
Campground                                                                               P  P
Cans, manufacture of                                                                        P
Car wash (automatic and self)                                                   P  P     P  P
Card shop                                                                       P  P  P
Carpets and rugs, manufacture of                                                            P
Casinos, approved hotels and other areas where gambling games are
conducted (Controlled use - See §§                                               P     P  P
152.330-
152.332)
Cement, lime or gypsum, manufacture of                                                      P
Cemetery                                                            SE SE SE    SE SE    P  P
Ceramic and clay products, manufacture of                                                   P
Chemicals, manufacture of                                                                   P
Child care center                                                   SE SE SE P  P  P
Child care home (see §                                             SE SE SE P  P  P
152.085 for limitations)
Child care ministry                                                 SE SE SE P  P  P
Cinder block and other similar building materials, manufacture of                           P
Clinic, medical, dental or optometrists                                      P  P  P  P
Clock shop                                                                      P  P  P
Clocks and watches, manufacture of                                                          P
Cloth products (e.g. apparel) from finished cloth, manufacture of                           P
Coating (excluding tar products), manufacturing of                                          P
Coffee roasting                                                                             P
Coin and stamp shop                                                             P  P  P
Coke ovens                                                                            P
Colors and dyes, manufacture of                                                             P
Communication equipment and assembly                                                        P
Community center                                                                P  P     P  P
Computer store                                                                  P  P  P
Computers and computer equipment, manufacturing of                                          P
Concrete blocks and shapes production                                                       P
Concrete mixing                                                                             P
Concrete paving materials preparation                                                       P
Conference center                                                                  P     P  P
Construction companies (any type)                                                  P     P  P
Construction companies (office only)                                         P  P  P  P  P  P
Construction equipment and machinery, manufacturing of                                      P
Consultant                                                                   P  P  P  P  P  P
Containers, manufacturing of                                                                P
Contractors (any type)                                                             P     P  P
Contractors (office only)                                                    P  P  P  P  P  P
Convalescent home                                                         P     P  P     P  P
Convenience store                                                               P  P  P  P  P
Copy or duplicating service                                                     P  P  P  P  P
Corporate headquarters (office only)                                         P  P  P     P  P
Correctional (penal) institution                                                            P
Cosmetics, manufacturing of                                                                 P
Costume rental                                                                  P  P  P  P  P
Cottage business/residential                                        SE SE SE
Country club                                                                       P     P  P
Creosote, manufacture of                                                                    P
Crematory                                                                                   P
Crematory (within a cemetery)                                       SE SE SE    SE SE
Cutlery, manufacturing of                                                                   P
Dairy bar - retail                                                              P  P  P  P  P
Dairy products, manufacturing of                                                            P
Dance studio                                                                    P  P  P
Data processing or analysis                                                              P  P
Delicatessen                                                                    P  P  P  P  P
Dental laboratory                                                                        P  P
Dentist                                                                      P  P  P  P  P  P
Department store                                                                P  P
Design services                                                              P  P  P  P  P  P
Detergents, soaps and lotions, manufacturing of                                             P
Digital recording media (CD, DVD, Blu-ray, hard drives and similar                          P
recording media), manufacturing of
Distribution center                                                                      P  P
Dressmaking                                                                     P  P  P  P  P
Drug store                                                                      P  P  P
Dry cleaning and laundry establishment                                          P  P     P  P
Dwelling, accessory                                                 SE SE SE
Dwelling, multifamily                                                     P
Dwelling, multifamily townhouse                                           P
Dwelling, single family                                             P  P
Dwelling, two family                                                   P  P
Dwelling, unit - upper level                                           P  P           P
Electric hand tools, manufacturing of                                                       P
Electric lighting and wiring, manufacturing of                                              P
Electric materials, manufacturing of                                                        P
Electric motors, manufacturing of                                                           P
Electric signs (neon, LED, and the like), manufacturing of                                  P
Electric transmission and distribution and relay station                                 P  P
Electrical components and sub-assemblies, manufacturing of                                  P
Electrical/electronics repair                                                   P  P     P  P
Electroplating operations                                                                P  P
Elevators, manufacturing of                                                                 P
Engineer office                                                              P  P  P  P  P  P
Engineering laboratories                                                                 P  P
Engines or turbines, manufacturing of                                                       P
Explosives, manufacture of                                                                  P
Fabric store                                                                    P  P  P
Fabricated structural metal products, manufacturing of                                      P
Fairgrounds                                                                              P  P
Farm equipment and machinery, manufacture of                                                P
Farm equipment sales and service                                                   P     P  P
Farmers market                                                                  SE P  SE P  P
Fertilizer, manufacture of                                                                  P
Fire station                                                        SE SE SE SE SE P     P  P
Fireworks, manufacture of                                                                   P
Fitness center                                                                  P  P  P  P  P
Flex-space                                                                               P  P
Floor coverings                                                                 P  P
Flower shop                                                                     P  P  P
Food products, limited - secondary processing and packaging of food
products initially processed off the premises, limited to a maximum                SE    P  P
of five operating employees
Foundries                                                                                   P
Frame shop                                                                      P  P  P
Funeral home                                                                    P  P     P  P
Furniture, manufacturing of                                                                 P
Furniture store                                                                 P  P  P
Garden supply                                                                   P  P
Gases, manufacture of                                                                       P
Gasoline service station with minor repair (not to exceed 2                     P  P     P  P
accessory indoor service bays)
Gasoline service station without repair                                         P  P     P  P
Gift shop                                                                       P  P  P
Glass and glass products, manufacturing of                                                  P
Glue, manufacture of                                                                        P
Golf course                                                         SE SE SE    SE SE    SE SE
Golf driving range                                                                 P     P  P
Grainaries, grain processing, milling                                                    P  P
Grocery                                                                         P  P  P  P  P
Group home                                                                P
Group residence                                                           P
Gun shop and gunsmith shop (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                        P  P
152.332)
Gymnastics studio                                                                  P     P  P
Hardware store                                                                  P  P  P
Health spa or fitness center                                                    P  P  P  P  P
Heliports - landing pads and stations for helicopters (helistop)
including facilities for maintenance of helicopters and accessory                        P  P
uses
Hobby, toy or game shop                                                         P  P  P
Home improvement store                                                          P  P
Home remodeling companies (any type)                                               P     P  P
Home remodeling companies (office only)                                      P  P  P  P  P  P
Hospital                                                                           P
Hotel                                                                           P  P
Ice cream store - retail                                                        P  P  P  P  P
Ice or dry ice, manufacturing of                                                            P
Industrial uses requiring outdoor storage > 50% of lot                                      P
Insurance agent                                                              P  P  P  P  P  P
Iron and steel production                                                                   P
Jewelry (including engraving), manufacturing of                                             P
Jewelry store                                                                   P  P  P
Junk yard                                                                                   SE
Kennel (with indoor runs)                                                       P  P
Kennel (with outdoor runs)                                                         P
Lacquers                                                                                    P
Laundry, self-service                                                           P  P     P  P
Lawyer                                                                       P  P  P  P  P  P
Leather products from finished leather, manufacturing of                                    P
Libraries, public                                                   SE SE SE P  P  P  P  P  P
Light component parts of products, manufacturing of                                         P
Liquid fertilizer storage and distribution (commercial)                                     P
Liquor store                                                                    P  P
Liquors (including blending of), manufacturing of                                           P
Locksmith                                                                       P  P  P
Lodge, fraternal organization or private club                                   P  P  P  P  P
Lubricants (including blending of), manufacturing of                                        P
Lumber mill                                                                                 P
Lumber yard                                                                        P     P  P
Machine shop                                                                             P  P
Machinery and machinery components, manufacturing of                                        P
Mail order distribution                                                                  P  P
Malt products, manufacturing of                                                             P
Manufactured home sales                                                            P
Manufactures representative                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P
Manufacturing retailer                                                          SE P  P  P  P
Massage business                                                             P  P  P  P  P  P
Matches, manufacture of                                                                     P  >
Mattresses, manufacturing of, manufacturing of                                              P
Meat and meat products (including packing and processing),                                  P
manufacturing of
Meat market                                                                     P  P  P  P  P
Medicine, manufacturing of                                                                  P
Metal shops (including stamping and fabricating using press, brakes                      P  P
or rolls)
Milk products, manufacturing of                                                             P
Millinery shop (fabric shop)                                                    P  P  P  P  P
Millwork                                                                                 P  P
Mineral extraction, borrow pit, topsoil removal and storage areas                           P
Miniature golf - indoor                                                         P  P     P  P
Miniature golf - outdoor                                                           P     P  P
Mobile home park                                                                               P
Mortuary                                                                        P  P
Motel                                                                           P  P
Motor cycle/scooter sales, service and repair                                   P  P  SE P  P
Motor vehicles and parts, manufacturing of                                                  P
Motorcycles and parts, manufacturing of                                                     P
Muffler shop                                                                    P  P     P  P
Municipal/state road maintenance facility                                                P  P
Museum                                                                          P  P  P  P  P
Music store                                                                     P  P  P
Musical instruments, manufacturing of                                                       P
Musician
Natural gas (storage, transmission and distribution)                                        P
News dealer                                                                     P  P  P
Non-alcoholic beverages, manufacturing of                                                   P
Nursing home                                                              P     P  P
Office equipment, including assembly, manufacturing of                                      P
Office machinery, electrical and mechanical, manufacturing of                               P
Offices, administrative                                                      P  P  P  P  P  P
Offices, government                                                          P  P  P  P  P  P
Off-track pari-mutuel wagering facility (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                           P     P  P
152.332)
Oil processing, refining and manufacture                                                    P
Oils (including blending of), manufacturing of                                              P
Optical goods, manufacturing of                                                             P
Optometrist                                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P
Paint, manufacture of                                                                       P
Paint store                                                                     P  P
Paper box and paper products from finished paper                                            P
Paper, manufacture of                                                                       P
Park, active                                                        SE SE SE SE SE SE    SE SE
Park, neighborhood                                                  SE SE SE SE SE SE    SE SE
Park, passive                                                       SE SE SE SE SE SE    SE SE
Park, private                                                       SE SE SE SE SE SE    SE SE
Park, public                                                        SE SE SE SE SE SE    SE SE
Parking garage                                                                  P  P     P  P
Parking lot - accessory                                                      P  P  P     P  P
Pawnshop (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                        P  P
152.332)
Pet store                                                                       P  P
Petroleum tank farm (commercial)                                                            P
Pharmaceutical products, manufacturing of                                                   P
Pharmacist                                                                      P  P  P  P  P
Phonograph records, manufacturing of                                                        P
Photographic equipment, manufacturing of                                                    P
Photographic studio                                                             P  P  P  P  P
Physician                                                                    P  P  P  P  P  P
Planing mill                                                                             P  P
Plastics (including blending of)                                                            P
Police station                                                      SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Post office - with outdoor storage of delivery vehicles                            P     P  P
Post office - without outdoor storage of delivery vehicles                      P  P  P  P  P
Power plants, including: electric, steam and thermal                                        P
Prefabricated wood building and structural members, manufacturing                           P
of
Print shop                                                                      P  P  P  P  P
Professional offices                                                         P  P  P  P  P  P
Public dance hall (Controlled use - See §§
152.330-                                                                           P     P  P
152.332)
Public utility substation                                                                P  P
Public wells                                                        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Publishing                                                                               P  P
Pumping station                                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Radio, TV, music sales and service                                              P  P
Radio/television stations                                                          P     P  P
Radio/television stations, including transmission towers                                 P  P
Railroad equipment (including repair and service), manufacturing of                         P
Real estate office                                                           P  P  P  P  P  P
Recording instruments, manufacturing of                                                     P
Recycling facility                                                                          P
Refrigeration and service industry machinery, manufacture of                             P  P
Refuse dump                                                                                 P
Rehabilitation center                                                           P  P
Religious use                                                       SE SE SE SE P  P
Research laboratories                                                        P  P  P  P  P  P
Residential facility for the developmentally disabled               P  P  P
Residential facility for the mentally iii                           P  P  P
Resins (including blending of)                                                              P
Resource recovery facility                                                                  P
Rest home                                                                 P     P  P
Restaurant - drive-in                                                           P  P     P  P
Restaurant - drive-through                                                      P  P     P  P
Restaurant - family                                                             P  P  P  P  P
Restaurant - family with lounge                                                 P  P  P  P  P
Restaurant - fast food                                                          P  P  SE P  P
Restaurant - sit-down                                                           P  P  P  P  P
Retail showroom                                                                 P  P
Rolling and extruding of metal                                                              P
Rubber products, manufacture of                                                             P
RV and camper sales and service                                                    P     P  P
Sand blasting                                                                               P
Sanitarium                                                                         P
Sanitary land fill, public or commercial                                                    P
Satellite dish sales and service (indoor display)                               P  P  P
Satellite dish sales and service (outdoor display)                              P  P
Saw mill                                                                                    P
School - commercial, trade, industrial or business                           P  P  P     P  P
School - cottage                                                    SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
School - kindergarten                                               SE SE SE P  P  P
School - pre-school                                                 SE SE SE P  P  P
School - public or private                                          SE SE SE P  P  P
Search, detection, navigation, guidance aeronautical systems,                               P
instruments, and equipment, manufacturing of
Self-storage (mini-) warehouse                                                     P     P  P
Service organization office                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P
Sewage treatment plant                                                                   P  P
Shoe repair shop                                                                P  P  P  P  P
Shoe store                                                                      P  P  P
Sign painting                                                                   P  P     P  P
Signs, electric, neon, or other types, manufacturing of                                     P
Skating rink (ice and roller) - indoor                                          P  P     P  P
Skating rink (ice and roller) - outdoor                             SE SE SE    P  P     P  P
Slaughter house                                                                             P
Sporting goods                                                                  P  P  P
Sports equipment, manufacturing of                                                          P
Starch, manufacturing of                                                                    P
Stationery store                                                                P  P  P
Storage of heavy equipment (as a primary use)                                               P
Storage tanks - non-hazardous                                                   P  P     P  P
Structural steel fabrication                                                                P
Surgical, medical, and dental instruments and supplies,                                     P
manufacturing of
Swimming pool, private or public                                    SE SE SE    P  P     P  P
Tailor and pressing shop                                                        P  P  P  P  P
Tanning salon                                                                   P  P  P  P  P
Tar, tar paper, tar products, manufacture of                                                P
Tattoo, body piercing, scarifying and branding establishments
(Controlled use - See §§                                                      P  P
152.330-
152.332)
Telephone exchange                                                              P  P  SE P  P
Tennis/racquet club - indoor                                                       P     P  P
Tennis/racquet club - outdoor                                                      P     P  P
Textiles and textile mill products, manufacture of                                          P
Theater - indoor                                                                P  P     P  P
Theater - outdoor                                                                  P     P  P
Tire and auto service center                                                    P  P  SE P  P
Tire and inner tubes, manufacture of                                                        P
Tire recapping                                                                              P
Tobacco products, manufacturing of                                                          P
Tobacco store                                                                   P  P
Tool and die shop                                                                        P  P
Tool or equipment rental                                                           P     P  P
Tools and implements (electrical or non-electrical), manufacturing                          P
of
Toys, dolls, or games, manufacturing of                                                     P
Transfer station                                                                            P
Travel agency                                                                P  P  P  P  P  P
Truck and bus - rental service                                                     P     P  P
Truck and bus - sales and service                                                  P     P  P
Truck terminal                                                                              P
Tuxedo rental                                                                   P  P  P  P  P
Upholstering shops                                                              P  P
Variety store                                                                   P  P  P
Varnishes, manufacture of                                                                   P
Vehicle storage                                                                          P  P
Veneer (veneer mills)                                                                       P
Veterinary hospital (including boarding)                                        P  P
Veterinary hospital (without boarding)                                          P  P
Video store                                                                     P  P  P
Wall coverings                                                                  P  P
Warehouse                                                                                P  P
Water tower                                                                              P  P
Water treatment plant                                                                    P  P
Welding shop                                                                             P  P
Wholesale business                                                                       P  P
Wireless communication facility                                                          P  P
Wrecker service                                                                          P  P
 
(Ord. 1221, Art. 13, passed 1-26-2010; Am. Ord. 1268, passed 4-9-2013; Am. Ord.
1454, passed 8-16-2023)
APPENDIX B: FORMS
Appendix
   
B-1   Area Plan Commission Commitments
   
B-2   Area Plan Commission Modification of Commitments
   
B-3   Board of Zoning Appeals Commitments
   
B-4   Board of Zoning Appeals Modification of Commitments
   
B-5   Consent Form
   
B-6   Consent Form
APPENDIX B-1: AREA PLAN COMMISSION COMMITMENTS
NOTE:    The Town of New Carlisle Zoning Ordinance requires the use of this
form in recording commitments made with respect to Zone Map Changes or Planned
Unit Developments in accordance with state law.
COMMITMENTS CONCERNING THE USE OR DEVELOPMENT OF REAL
ESTATE MADE IN CONNECTION WITH A ZONE MAP CHANGE OR PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT REQUIRED BY THE TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE
ZONING ORDINANCE
In accordance with state law, the Owner of the real estate located in the Town
of New Carlisle, Indiana which is described below, makes the following
COMMITMENTS concerning the use and development of the following described
parcel of real estate:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
STATEMENT OF COMMITMENTS:
1.
2.
3.
These COMMITMENTS shall run with the land, be binding on the Owner of the
above-described real estate, subsequent owners of the above-described real
estate and other persons acquiring an interest therein. These COMMITMENTS may
be modified or terminated by a decision of the Area Plan Commission of St.
Joseph County made at a public hearing after proper notice has been given.
COMMITMENTS contained in this instrument shall be effective upon the approval
of petition #________ pursuant to the Town of New Carlisle Zoning Ordinance,
and shall continue in effect until: (i) the real estate is rezoned; or (ii)
modified or terminated by the Area Plan Commission of St. Joseph County.
These COMMITMENTS may be enforced jointly or severally by:
1.   The Area Plan Commission of St. Joseph County;
2.   The Town of New Carlisle, Indiana;
3.   Owners of all parcels of ground adjoining the real estate within 300 feet
of the subject parcel and all owners of real estate within the area included in
the petition who were not petitioners for approval; and
4.   __________________________________________________________________
   __________________________________________________________________
The undersigned hereby authorizes the Executive Director of the Area Plan
Commission of St. Joseph County to record this Commitment in the office of the
Recorder of St. Joseph County, Indiana, upon final approval of petition
#___________.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner has executed this instrument this ____ day of
____________ , ________.
   (Individual Owner)
Signature ______________ (Seal)       Signature ____________________ (Seal)
Printed _________________          Printed ______________________
   (Organization Owner)
_________________________________
By ______________________________
Printed ___________________________
Title _____________________________
   (Individual Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                         ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared __________________________, Owner(s) of the real estate described
above who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument and who,
having been duly sworn, stated that any representations therein contained are
true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this _____ day of____________, _______.
Signature __________________________
Printed ____________________________
County of Residence ________________
My Commission expires: ____________
   (Organization Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                         ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared _________________, the_____________ of _____________, a(n)__________,
Owner(s) of the real estate described above who acknowledged the execution of
the foregoing instrument in such capacity and who, having been duly sworn,
stated that any representations therein contained are true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of ______,
_______________.
   Signature __________________________
   Printed ____________________________
County of Residence _______________________________
My Commission expires: ____________________________
This instrument was prepared by ______________________.
(Ord. 1221, Exh. A, passed 1-26-2010)
APPENDIX B-2: AREA PLAN COMMISSION MODIFICATION OF COMMITMENTS
NOTE:    The Town of New Carlisle Zoning Ordinance requires the use of this
form in recording commitment modification(s) or termination(s) with respect to
a Zone Map Change or Planned Unit Development in accordance with state law.
COMMITMENTS MODIFYING OR TERMINATING EXISTING COMMITMENTS CONCERNING THE USE OR
DEVELOPMENT OF REAL ESTATE MADE IN CONNECTION WITH A ZONE MAP CHANGE OR PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT
In accordance with state law, the Owner of the real estate located in the Town
of New Carlisle, Indiana, which is described below, makes the following
modification(s) or termination(s) of commitment(s) concerning the use and
development of the following described parcel of real estate:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
STATEMENT OF MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION OF COMMITMENTS:
1.
2.
3.
These MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION OF COMMITMENTS shall run with the land, be
binding on the Owner of the above-referenced real estate, subsequent owners of
the above-referenced real estate and other persons acquiring an interest
therein. These COMMITMENTS may be modified or terminated by a decision of the
Area Plan Commission of St. Joseph County made at a public hearing after proper
notice has been given.
MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION OF COMMITMENTS contained in this instrument shall
be effective upon adoption of modification or termination approved by the Area
Plan Commission of St. Joseph County in petition #__________________: (i) the
real estate is rezoned; or (ii) modified or terminated by the Area Plan
Commission of St. Joseph County.
These COMMITMENTS may be enforced jointly or severally by:
   1.   The Area Plan Commission of St. Joseph County;
   2.   The Town of New Carlisle, Indiana;
   3.   Owners of all parcels of ground adjoining the real estate within 300
feet of the subject parcel and all owners of real estate within the area
included in the petition who were not petitioners for approval; and
   4.   _______________________________________________________________
      _______________________________________________________________
The undersigned hereby authorizes the Executive Director of the Area Plan
Commission of St. Joseph County to record this MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION OF
COMMITMENTS in the office of the Recorder of St. Joseph County, Indiana, upon
final approval petition #________ by the Area Plan Commission of St. Joseph
County.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner has executed this instrument this _____ day of
_______, _____________.
   (Individual Owner)
Signature _______________ (Seal)          Signature ____________________ (Seal)
Printed _________________                Printed ______________________
   (Organization Owner)
_________________________________
By ______________________________
Printed ___________________________
Title _____________________________
   (Individual Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                         ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared __________________________, Owner(s) of the real estate described
above who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument and who,
having been duly sworn, stated that any representations therein contained are
true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this _____ day of____________, _______.
            Signature __________________________
            Printed ____________________________
County of Residence ________________
My Commission expires: ____________
   (Organization Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                     ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared _________________, the_____________ of _____________, a(n)__________,
Owner(s) of the real estate described above who acknowledged the execution of
the foregoing instrument in such capacity and who, having been duly sworn,
stated that any representations therein contained are true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of ______,
_______________.
               Signature __________________________
               Printed ____________________________
County of Residence ________________________________
My Commission expires: ____________________________
This instrument was prepared by ______________________.
(Ord. 1221, Exh. B, passed 1-26-2010)
APPENDIX B-3: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS COMMITMENTS
COMMITMENTS CONCERNING THE USE OR DEVELOPMENT OF REAL ESTATE MADE IN CONNECTION
WITH A SPECIAL EXCEPTION OR A
VARIANCE GRANT FROM THE TERMS OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE
In accordance with state law, the Owner of the real estate located in the Town
of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County, Indiana, which is described below, makes
the following COMMITMENTS concerning the use and development of the following
described parcel of real estate:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
STATEMENT OF COMMITMENTS:
1.
2.
3.
4.
These COMMITMENTS shall be binding on the Owner, subsequent owners of the
above-described real estate, and other persons acquiring an interest in the
above-described real estate.
These COMMITMENTS may be modified or terminated by a decision of the Town of
New Carlisle Board of Zoning Appeals made at a public hearing after proper
notice has been given.
COMMITMENTS contained in this instrument shall be effective upon the grant of
petition #_________________ by the Town Council/Board of Zoning Appeals.
These COMMITMENTS may be enforced jointly or severally by:
   1.   The Town of New Carlisle, Indiana;
   2.   Owners of all parcels of ground adjoining the real estate within 300
feet from the subject property, and all owners of real estate within the area
included in the petition who were not
petitioners. Owners of real estate entirely located outside the Town of New
Carlisle are not included, however; and
   3.   ________________________________________________________________
      ________________________________________________________________
The undersigned hereby authorizes the Clerk of the Town Council / Secretary of
the Board of Zoning Appeals to record this Commitment in the office of the
Recorder of St. Joseph County, Indiana, upon final approval of petition
#____________.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner has executed this instrument this _______ day of
__________, ______________.
   (Individual Owner)
Signature __________________ (Seal)       Signature ____________________ (Seal)
Printed ____________________             Printed ______________________
   (Organization Owner)
_________________________________
By ______________________________
Printed ___________________________
Title _____________________________
   (Individual Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                         ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared __________________________, Owner(s) of the real estate described
above who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument and who,
having been duly sworn, stated that any representations therein contained are
true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this _____ day of____________, _______.
      Signature ________________
      Printed _________________
County of Residence ________________
My Commission expires: ____________
   (Organization Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                         ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared _________________, the _____________ of _____________, a
(n)_____________, Owner(s) of the real estate described above who acknowledged
the execution of the foregoing instrument in such capacity and who, having been
duly sworn, stated that any representations therein contained are true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of ______,
_______________.
         Signature __________________________
         Printed ____________________________
County of Residence _______________________________
My Commission expires: ____________________________
This instrument was prepared by ______________________.
(Ord. 1221, Exh. C, passed 1-26-2010)
APPENDIX B-4: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS MODIFICATION OF COMMITMENTS
COMMITMENTS MODIFYING OR TERMINATING EXISTING COMMITMENTS CONCERNING THE USE OR
DEVELOPMENT OF REAL ESTATE
MADE IN CONNECTION WITH A SPECIAL EXCEPTION OR A
VARIANCE FROM THE TERMS OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE
In accordance with state law, the Owner of the real estate located in the Town
of New Carlisle, St. Joseph County, Indiana, which is described below, makes
the following COMMITMENTS concerning the use and development of the following
described parcel of real estate:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
STATEMENT OF MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION OF COMMITMENTS existing in Instrument
Number ___________ as recorded in the office of the Recorder of St. Joseph
County, Indiana, as made in connection with petition #_________________:
1.
2.
3.
4.
These modified COMMITMENTS shall be binding on the Owner of the above-described
real estate, subsequent owners of the above-described real estate, and other
persons acquiring an interest in the above-described real estate.
These modified COMMITMENTS may be further modified or terminated by a decision
of the Board of Zoning Appeals made at a public hearing after proper notice has
been given.
Modified COMMITMENTS contained in this instrument shall be effective upon the
adoption of modification or termination approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals
in petition #________________.
These COMMITMENTS may be enforced jointly or severally by:
   1.   The Town of New Carlisle, Indiana;
   2.   Owners of all parcels of ground adjoining the real estate to a depth of
300 feet from the subject property, and all owners of real estate within the
area included in the petition who were not petitioners. Owners of real estate
entirely located outside of the Town of New Carlisle are not included, however;
and
   3.   _________________________________________________________________
      _________________________________________________________________
The undersigned hereby authorizes the Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals
to record this Commitment in the office of the Recorder of St. Joseph County,
Indiana, upon final approval of modification and/or termination of commitment
(s) by the Board of Zoning Appeals in petition #_________________.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner has executed this instrument this ________ day of
______________,________.
   (Individual Owner)
Signature _______________ (Seal)       Signature ___________________ (Seal)
Printed_________________             Printed______________________
   (Organization Owner)
_________________________________
By ______________________________
Printed ___________________________
Title _____________________________
   (Individual Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                         ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared __________________________, Owner(s) of the real estate described
above who acknowledged the
execution of the foregoing instrument and who, having been duly sworn, stated
that any representations therein contained are true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this _____ day of____________, _______.
Signature __________________________
Printed ____________________________
County of Residence _______________
My Commission expires: ____________
   (Organization Acknowledgment)
STATE OF_____________   )
                         ) SS:
COUNTY OF___________   )
   Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared _________________, the_____________ of _____________, a(n)__________,
Owner(s) of the real estate described above who acknowledged the execution of
the foregoing instrument in such capacity and who, having been duly sworn,
stated that any representations therein contained are true.
   Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of ______,
_______________.
   Signature __________________________
   Printed ____________________________
County of Residence _______________________________
My Commission expires: ____________________________
This instrument was prepared by ______________________.
(Ord. 1221, Exh. D, passed 1-26-2010)
APPENDIX B-5: CONSENT FORM
TOWN COUNCIL/AREA PLAN COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
FOR THE
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE, ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA
   CONSENT FORM
The undersigned, ___________________________________, being the owner of the
property commonly known as __________________________, hereby authorizes
________________________ to file land development petitions necessary for the
aforementioned address.
This consent shall (check one):
remain in effect until revoked by a written statement filed with the Town
Council /
    Area Plan Commission / Board Of Zoning Appeals.
remain in effect until _________________.
remain in effect until these land development petitions are resolved.
   By:    ___________________________
   Printed:   ___________________________
   Title:   ___________________________
   Date:   ___________________________
STATE OF INDIANA,
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH, SS:
Subscribed and sworn to before me this
________ day of ________________, 20________
__________________________________________
Notary Public
__________________________________________
Printed Name of Notary Public
My Commission expires: ______________________
My County of residence: ______________________
(Ord. 1221, Exh. E, passed 1-26-2010)
APPENDIX B-6: CONSENT FORM
TOWN COUNCIL/AREA PLAN COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
FOR THE
TOWN OF NEW CARLISLE, ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA
   CONSENT FORM
The undersigned, ________________________________________, being the owner of
the property commonly known as _________________________________________,
hereby authorizes ________________________________________ to file land
development petitions necessary for the aforementioned address.
This consent shall (check one):
remain in effect until revoked by a written statement filed with the Town
Council/
    Area Plan Commission/Board Of Zoning Appeals.
remain in effect until _________________________ .
remain in effect until these land development petitions are resolved.
__________________________________      __________________________________
__________________________________      __________________________________
Signature(s) of Owner(s)            Signature(s) of Owner(s)
STATE OF INDIANA,                   STATE OF INDIANA,
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH, SS:             COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH, SS:
Subscribed and sworn to before me this       Subscribed and sworn to before me
this
_________ day of __________, 20_____      _________ day of __________, 20______
__________________________________      __________________________________
Notary Public                        Notary Public
__________________________________      __________________________________
Printed Name of Notary Public            Printed Name of Notary Public
My Commission expires: _____________      My Commission expires: ______________
My County of residence: _____________      My County of residence:
______________
(Ord. 1221, Exh. F, passed 1-26-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[RESERVED]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1992 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                                           Code Section
1-1-1-5                                             10.04
1-1-1-7                                             10.12
1-1-1-8                                             10.06
1-1-4-5                                             10.05
1-1-5-1                                             10.11
1-1-6-1                                             10.08
4-21.5-3-7                                          150.018
4-21.5-5                                            35.99
4-23-29                                             95.02
4-32.3                                              152.426
4-32.3 et seq                                       152.426
4-32.3-2-3                                          152.426
4-33-2-3                                            152.426
4-33-2-9                                            152.426
5-2-1-9                                             33.16
5-2-8-2                                             30.07
5-3-1 et seq.                                       151.058
5-11-10                                             32.04,
                                                    32.07
5-14-1.5-1 through 5-14-1.5-7                       31.22
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.                                  35.02,
                                                    50.22
6-1.1-24                                            150.081
6-3.5-1.1-21.1                                      37.13
6-3.5-6-17.3                                        37.13
6-3.5-7-13.1(c)                                     37.06
6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)(A) through 6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)(K) 37.06
6-3.5-7-17.3                                        37.13
6-5-7 et seq.                                       33.15
7.1-5-7-9                                           152.426
7.1-5-7-10                                          152.426
7.1-5-7-11                                          152.426
8-1.5-3-8                                           50.24
8-14-14-6(a)(3)                                     37.06
8-14-16-5                                           37.06
9-21-11 et seq.                                     73.25
9-25-4-1 et seq.                                    73.50
9-25-4-4                                            73.54
14-16-1-1 et seq.14-1-3-1                           90.30
14-21-1-19                                          35.18
22-9-1-4 et seq.                                    95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                                    95.01
22-9.5-2-9                                          95.02
22-9.5-4-8                                          95.11
22-9.5-5                                            95.02
22-9.5-6                                            95.02,
                                                    95.11
22-13-2-7                                           150.018
22-15-4                                             150.004
31-37-3                                             130.01
31-37-3-3.5(b)                                      130.01
32-25                                               151.126,
                                                    152.426
33-36-2-1 et seq.                                   36.01
35-46-3-8 et seq.                                   94.33
36-1-3-1 through 36-1-3-9                           31.07
36-1-3-8(5)                                         110.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                                     10.99
36-1-7                                              37.06
36-1-7-1 through 36-1-7-12                          34.01
36-1-8-5                                            37.13
36-1-8-5.1                                          37.13
36-4-6-7                                            31.22
36-4-6-14                                           31.37
36-4-6-14(a)                                        10.17
36-4-6-14(b)                                        10.17
36-4-6-14(c)                                        10.17
36-4-8                                              32.07
36-4-56-14(c)                                       10.17
36-5-2-2                                            31.01,
                                                    31.04
36-5-2-3                                            31.01
36-5-2-5                                            31.01
36-5-2-7                                            31.04
36-5-2-8                                            32.02
36-5-2-9                                            31.07
36-5-2-9.2                                          31.20
36-5-2-9.4 through 36-5-2-9.8                       31.20
36-5-2-13                                           33.15
36-5-3-2                                            31.08
36-5-4-11                                           110.04
36-5-4-12                                           32.04
36-5-6-3                                            32.01
36-5-6-4                                            32.01
36-5-6-5                                            32..02
36-5-6-6(6)                                         110.04
36-5-6-7                                            32.03
36-5-7 et seq.                                      33.15
36-5-7-2                                            33.16
36-5-7-3                                            33.16
36-5-7-4                                            33.16
36-5-7-6(a)                                         33.16
36-5-7-6(b)                                         33.16
36-7-3 et seq.                                      151.110
36-7-3-10 et seq.                                   151.111
                                                    151.002,
                                                    151.003,
                                                    151.013,
                                                    151.061,
36-7-4 et seq.                                      152.002,
                                                    152.003,
                                                    152.018,
                                                    152.365,
                                                    152.426
36-7-4-200 et seq.                                  152.366
36-7-4-408                                          152.366
36-7-4-600                                          152.392
                                                    151.012,
36-7-4-600 et seq.                                  152.017,
                                                    152.039,
                                                    152.042
36-7-4-602 et seq.                                  152.389
36-7-4-604 et seq.                                  152.389
36-7-4-607 et seq.                                  152.389
36-7-4-700                                          152.392
36-7-4-701 et seq.                                  151.126
36-7-4-711 et seq.                                  151.110,
                                                    151.111
36-7-4-900                                          152.392
36-7-4-900 et seq.                                  152.367
36-7-4-1015                                         152.366
36-7-4-1016                                         151.113,
                                                    152.171
36-7-4-1104                                         152.008
36-7-4-1109                                         152.016
36-7-4-1400                                         152.392
36-7-9                                              93.06
36-7-9-1                                            152.332
36-7-9-1 et seq.                                    150.080
36-7-9-2                                            150.081
36-7-9-6                                            150.086
36-7-9-7(e)                                         150.088
36-7-9-8                                            150.089
36-7-9-13                                           150.094
36-7-9-13.5                                         150.094
36-7-9-14                                           150.095
36-7-9-15                                           150.095
36-7-9-16                                           150.096
36-7-9-17 et seq.                                   150.097
36-7-9-19                                           150.094
36-7-9-20                                           150.092
36-7-9-20.5                                         150.092
36-7-9-26                                           150.090
36-7-9-27                                           150.090
36-7-9-28                                           150.999
36-7-11.2-11                                        97.12
36-8-2-8                                            93.25
36-8-3 et seq.                                      33.15,
                                                    33.16
36-8-3-4                                            33.16
36-8-3-4r                                           33.16
36-8-3-18                                           33.16
36-8-3-20                                           33.16
36-8-12-1 through 36-8-12-12                        Ch. 34
36-8-12-3 through 36-8-12-18                        34.01
36-8-14-2                                           37.05
36-8-19-8.5                                         37.24
36-9-15.5                                           37.13 ,
                                                    37.19
36-9-23                                             51.23
36-9-67 through 36-9-27-69                          151.058
36-10-2-2                                           90.01
36-10-3-1 through 36-10-3-39                        90.12
36-10-3-6                                           90.06
36-10-3-8                                           90.09,
                                                    90.10
36-10-3-9                                           90.07
36-10-3-10                                          90.10
36-10-3-11                                          90.11
36-10-3-18                                          37.10
36-10-3-22                                          37.11
46-7-9-8                                            93.06
                                                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1992 CODE
1992 Code 2011 Code
1992 Code 2011 Code
1-3       10.05
1-7       10.17
1-10      11.01
1-12      10.18
2-1       32.01
2-2       32.02
2-3       32.03
2-4       32.04
2-5       32.05
2-6       33.15
2-31      33.16
2-33      33.16
2-150     30.01
2-151     30.01
2-155     37.01
2-156     37.02
2-157     37.03
2-158     37.04
2-159     37.05
2-161     37.07
2-163     37.08
2-164     37.09
2-165     37.10
2-166     37.11
2-167     37.13
2-168     37.14
2-169     37.15
2-170     37.16
2-171     37.17
2-172     37.18
2-173     37.19
2-174     37.20
2-175     37.21
2-180     30.02
2-181     30.02
2-190     30.03
2-192     30.03
2-193     30.03
2-198     33.01
2-199     33.01
2-205     35.01
2-206     35.02
2-207     35.03
2-208     35.04
2-209     35.05
2-210     35.06
2-211     35.07
2-212     35.08
2-213     35.09
2-214     35.10
2-215     35.11
2-216     35.12
2-217     35.13
2-218     35.14
2-219     35.99
2-220     35.15
2-222     35.16
2-223     35.17
2-224     35.18
2-230     38.01
2-231     38.15
2-232     38.16
2-233     38.17
2-234     38.18
2-235     38.19
2-236     38.20
2-237     38.21
3-1       31.01
3-2       31.02
3-2.1     31.03
3-3       31.04
3-4       31.05
3-5       31.06
3-6       31.20
3-7       31.07
3-8       31.21
3-9       31.22
3-10      31.23
3-11      31.24
3-12      31.25
3-13      31.35
3-14      31.36
3-15      31.37
3-16      31.08
3-30      36.01
3-31      36.02
3-32      36.03
3-34      36.99
3-35      36.04
3-37      36.05
4-1       110.01
4-2       110.02
4-3       110.03
4-4       110.04
4-5       110.05
4-24      110.06
4-29      110.20
4-30      110.21
4-31      110.22
4-32      110.23
4-33      110.24
4-34      110.25
4-35      110.26
4-36      110.27
4-37      110.28
4-38      110.29
4-39      110.99
4-46      110.40
4-47      110.41,
          110.99
4-48      110.42
4-49      110.43
4-50      110.44
4-56      91.01
4-57      91.02
4-60      91.40
4-61      91.41
4-62      91.42
4-63      91.43
4-64      91.44
4-65      91.45,
          91.99
4-73      110.55
5-1       90.01
5-2       90.02
5-3       90.03
5-4       90.04
5-5       90.05
5-6       90.06
5-7       90.07
5-8       90.08
5-9       90.09
5-11      90.10
5-12      90.11
5-14      90.12
5-15      90.13
5-16      90.14,
          90.99
5-17      90.15
5-18      90.30
5-19      90.31,
          90.99
6-7       34.02
6-8       34.03
6-12      30.04
6-14      35.30
6-15      35.99
6-20      92.01,
          92.99
6-21      73.01,
          73.99
6-26      93.25
6-27      93.26
6-28      93.27
6-29      93.99
6-32      93.40
6-33      93.41
6-34      93.42,
          93.99
6-36      97.01
6-37      97.02
6-38      97.03
6-39      97.04
6-40      97.05
6-41      97.06
6-42      97.07
6-43      97.08
6-44      97.09
6-45      97.10,
          97.99
6-46      97.11
6-47      97.12,
          97.99
6-53      92.15
6-54      92.16
6-55      92.17
6-56      92.18
6-57      92.19
6-58      92.20
6-59      92.99
6-60      130.01,
          130.99
6-61      130.02,
          130.99
6-70      95.01
6-71      95.02
6-72      95.03
6-73      95.04
6-74      95.05
6-75      95.06
6-76      95.07
6-77      95.08
6-79      95.09,
          95.10
6-80      95.11
6-82      95.12
6-85      73.15
6-86(a)   73.26
6-86(b)   73.27
6-86(c)   73.28
6-86(d)   73.29
6-86(e)   73.34
6-86(f)   73.35
6-87      73.99
6-95      93.50
6-96      93.51
6-97      93.52
6-98      93.53
6-99      93.99
6-115     97.20
6-116     97.21
6-117     97.22
7-1       150.001
7-2       150.002
7-3       150.003
7-4       150.004
7-5       150.005
7-6       150.006
7-7       150.007
7-8       150.008
7-9       150.009,
          Ch. 98
7-10      150.010
7-11      150.011
7-12      150.012
7-13      150.013
7-14      150.014
7-15      150.015
7-16      150.016
7-17      150.017
7-18      150.018
7-19      150.019
7-20      150.999
7-21      150.020
7-22      150.021
7-23      150.022
7-24      150.023
7-25      150.024
7-26      150.025
7-27      150.026
7-28      150.027
7-29      150.028
7-32      150.040
7-33      150.041
7-34      150.042
7-35      150.043
7-36      150.044
7-37      150.045
7-38      150.046
7-39      150.047
7-40      150.048
7-41      150.049
7-42      150.050
7-43      150.051
7-44      150.052
7-51      150.065
7-52      150.066
7-69      150.110
7-70      150.111
7-75      150.080
7-76      150.081
7-77      150.082
7-78      150.083
7-79      150.084
7-80      150.085
7-81      150.086
7-82      150.087
7-83      150.088
7-84      150.089
7-85      150.090
7-86      150.091
7-87      150.092
7-88      150.093
7-89      150.094
7-90      150.095
7-91      150.096
7-92      150.097
7-93      150.999
7-100     91.10
7-101     91.11
7-102     91.12
7-103     91.13
7-104     91.14
7-105     91.15
7-106     91.16
7-107     91.99
7-112     91.25
7-113     91.26
7-114     91.27
7-115     91.28
7-116     91.29
7-117     91.30
7-118     91.31
7-119     91.99
7-120     91.32
7-126     50.01
7-135     150.009
7-136     150.009,
          Ch. 98
7-137     150.009,
          Ch. 98
7-138     150.009,
          Ch. 98
7-139     150.009,
          Ch. 98
7-140     150.009,
          Ch. 98
8-1       73.25
8-2       73.26
8-3       73.27
8-4       73.28
8-5       73.29
8-6       73.30
8-7       73.31
8-8       73.32
8-9       73.33
8-10      73.34
8-11      73.35
8-12      73.36
8-16      71.01
8-19      Ch. 74 Sched. I
8-20      Ch. 74 Sched. II
8-21      Ch. 74 Sched. III
8-22      Ch. 74 Sched. IV
8-23      72.01,
          72.99
8-24      Ch. 75 Sched. I
8-25      72.03
8-26      72.02
8-26A     Ch. 75 Sched. II
8-26B     Ch. 75 Sched. III
8-26C     72.04
8-27      Ch. 74 Sched. V
8-28      72.20,
          72.99
8-29      72.21,
          72.99
8-34      70.99
8-35      70.01
8-36      70.01
8-37      Ch. 74 Sched. VII
8-45      Ch. 75 Sched. V
8-55      Ch. 75 Sched. VI
8-56      Ch. 75 Sched. VI
8-59      Ch. 75 Sched. VI
8-65      Ch. 75 Sched. IV
8-66      Ch. 75 Sched. IV
8-67      Ch. 75 Sched. IV
8-68      Ch. 75 Sched. IV
8-69      Ch. 75 Sched. IV
8-75      72.30
8-76      72.31
8-77      72.99
9-1       51.01
9-2       51.02
9-3       51.03
9-4       51.04
9-5       51.05
9-6       51.06
9-7       51.07
9-8       51.08
9-9       51.09
9-10      51.10
9-11      51.11
9-13      51.12
9-14      51.13
9-15      51.14
9-17      51.15
9-18      51.16
9-19      51.17
9-20      51.18
9-21      51.19
9-22      51.20
9-23      51.21
9-24      51.22
9-25      51.23
9-29      51.35
9-30      51.36
9-31      51.37
9-32      51.38
9-33      51.39
9-34      51.40
9-35      51.41
9-36      51.42
9-37      51.43
9-38      51.44
9-39      51.45
9-40      51.46
9-40.1    51.47
9-40.2    51.48
9-40.3    51.49
9-40.4    51.50
9-40.5    51.99
9-40.6    51.51
9-43      52.01
9-44      52.02
9-45      52.03
9-46      52.04
9-47      52.05
9-48      52.06
9-49      52.07
9-50      52.08
9-51      52.09
9-57      52.20
9-58      52.21
9-59      52.22
9-60      52.23
9-61      52.24
9-62      52.25
9-63      52.26
9-64      52.27
9-65.1    52.28
9-65.2    52.28
9-65.3    52.28
9-65.4    52.28
9-65.5    52.28
9-65.6    52.28
9-65.7    52.28
9-65.8    52.28
9-65.9    52.28
9-65.10   52.28
9-65.11   52.28
9-65.12   52.28
9-65.13   52.28
9-68.4    50.20
9-68.5    50.21
9-68.6    50.22
9-68.7    50.23
9-68.8    50.24
9-68.9    50.25
9-68.10   50.26
9-71      53.01
9-72      53.02
9-73      53.03
9-74      53.04
9-75.1    53.05
9-75.2    53.06
9-75.3    53.07
9-75.4    53.08
9-75.5    53.09
9-75.6    53.10
9-75.7    53.11
9-76      53.12
9-77      53.13
9-78      53.14
9-79      53.15
9-81      53.17
9-82      53.18
9-83      53.19
9-84      53.20
9-85      53.21
9-86      53.22
9-87      53.23
9-88      53.24
9-89      53.25
9-90      53.26
9-91      53.27
9-100     54.01
9-101     54.02
9-102     54.03
9-103     54.04
9-104     54.05
9-105     54.06
9-106     54.07
9-107     54.08
9-108     54.09
9-109     54.10
9-110     54.11
9-111     54.12
9-112     54.13
9-113     54.14
9-114     54.15
9-115     54.16
9-116     54.17
9-117     54.18
9-118     54.19
9-119     54.20
9-120     54.21
9-125     52.40
9-126     52.41
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No.         Date Passed Description
-                3-19-1974   30.01
486              - -1978     52.27
-                12-22-1981  31.23
11-27-84-1       11-27-1984  50.01
-                8-14-1990   37.07
91-05-31-01      6-11-1991   37.08
92-05-12-01, § 1- -1992     33.16
98-09-08-01, § 19-8-1998    97.20
98-09-08-01, § 29-8-1998    97.21,
                             Ch. 98
98-09-08-01, § 39-8-1998    97.21,
                             Ch. 98
98-09-08-01, § 49-8-1998    97.22
99-09-14-01      9-14-1999   30.05
05-08-09-01      8-9-2005    11.02
06-01-10-01      1-10-2006   37.07
                             33.15,
08-08-12-01      8-12-2008   33.17,
                             33.18
13-01-22-01      1-22-2013   30.03
14-09-23-01      9-23-2014   30.03
16-03-08-01      3-8-2016    30.03
16-08-23-01      9-27-2016   30.08
18-05-08-01      5-8-2018    30.03
19-03-19-01      3-19-2019   30.01
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed Code Section
275              - -         37.04
                             110.02,
356              - -         110.03,
                             Ch. 98
852              - -         90.99
118, 2           4-5-1943    72.04,
                             Ch. 75 Sched. II
118, 4           4-5-1943    72.04
210              - -1958     72.02
220              - -1960     Ch. 74 Sched. VII
23               - -1961     Ch. 74 Sched. I
231              - -1961     Ch. 74 Sched. I
241, 1           - -1963     110.20
241, 2A          - -1963     110.21
241, 2B          - -1963     110.22,
                             Ch. 98
241, 3           - -1963     110.24
241, 4           - -1963     110.25
241, 5           - -1963     110.26
250              - -1963     90.13
259              - -1964     72.01
279              - -1965     37.01
194              - -1966     Ch. 74 Sched. I
330              - -1969     Ch. 74 Sched. VII
338A             - -1970     73.01
345, 1           - -1970     97.09
345, 2           - -1970     97.09
345, 3           - -1970     97.10
345, 4           - -1970     97.10
346              - -1971     Ch. 74 Sched. I
241              - -1973     110.99,
                             Ch. 98
241, 6           - -1973     110.27
241, 7           - -1973     110.28
241, 8           - -1973     110.29
399              - -1973     70.01
422              - -1974     Ch. 74 Sched. III,
                             IV
46n              - -1976     90.14
467              - -1976     37.02
474              - -1977     Ch. 75 Sched. I
399, 1           - -1978     70.99,
                             Ch. 98
489(f)           - -1978     52.07,
                             Ch. 98
508              - -1978     72.20
521, 1           - -1979     51.17
528              - -1979     30.01
                             53.02-
533              - -1979     53.04,
                             Ch. 98
543A, 1          - -1979     97.01
543A, 2          - -1979     97.02
543A, 4          - -1979     97.04,
                             Ch. 98
543A, 5          - -1979     97.05
543A, 6          - -1979     97.06
543A, 7          - -1979     97.07
543A, 8          - -1979     97.08
547              - -1980     31.21
554              - -1980     52.04
554, 1(a)        - -1980     52.01
554, 1(c)        - -1980     52.03
554, 1(e)        - -1980     52.05
554, 4           - -1980     52.06
558              - -1980     Ch. 75 Sched. I,
                             Ch. 98
573, 2           - -1981     72.21
574, 1(b)        - -1981     93.26
576              - -1981     Ch. 75 Sched. I
576              - -1981     52.08,
                             Ch. 98
584, 1           - -1981     150.080
584, 2           - -1981     150.081
584, 3           - -1981     150.082
584, 4           - -1981     150.083
584, 5           - -1981     150.084
584, 6           - -1981     150.085
584, 7           - -1981     150.086
584, 8           - -1981     150.087
584, 9           - -1981     150.088
584, 10          - -1981     150.089
584, 11          - -1981     150.090
584, 12          - -1981     150.091
584, 13          - -1981     150.092
584, 15          - -1981     150.094
584, 16          - -1981     150.095
584, 17          - -1981     150.096
584, 18          - -1981     150.097
584, 19          - -1981     150.999,
                             Ch. 98
594, 14          - -1981     150.093
591              - -1982     150.027
596              - -1982     Ch. 74 Sched. III
604              - -1982     30.01
606              - -1982     110.55
612              - -1982     Ch. 74 Sched. I
-, 1-1           6-8-1982    33.15
619              6-28-1983   90.14
624, 5           9-27-1983   10.18
624, 6           9-27-1983   10.18
634              8-14-1984   Ch. 74 Sched. V,
                             Ch. 98
647, 8-21(e)     4-9-1985    Ch. 74 Sched. III
647, 8-22        4-9-1985    Ch. 74 Sched. IV
647, 8-24(f)     4-9-1985    Ch. 75 Sched. I
659              8-13-1985   91.25
659, 7-94        8-13-1985   91.26
659, 7-95        8-13-1985   91.27
659, 7-96        8-13-1985   91.28
659, 7-97        8-13-1985   91.29
659, 7-98        8-13-1985   91.30
659, 7-99        8-13-1985   91.31
659, 7-101       8-13-1985   91.32
399-A            8-26-1986   70.99,
                             Ch. 98
692, 8-19        6-9-1987    Ch. 74 Sched. I
693-A, 1         9-8-1987    Ch. 75 Sched. VI
693-A, 6         9-8-1987    Ch. 75 Sched. VI
3105             10-5-1987   94.18
715, 6           9-22-1988   50.20
715, 7           9-22-1988   50.21
715, 8           9-22-1988   50.22
715, 9           9-22-1988   50.23
715, 10          9-22-1988   50.24
715, 11          9-22-1988   50.25
715, 12          9-22-1988   50.26
                             53.05-
727, Appx A      1-24-1989   53.11,
                             Ch. 98
738              7-25-1989   93.26
750, 1           1-10-1990   51.01
750, 2           1-10-1990   51.02
750, 4(a) - (e)  1-10-1990   51.04,
                             Ch. 98
750, 4(f)        1-10-1990   51.05
750, 5           1-10-1990   51.07
750, 6           1-10-1990   51.08,
                             Ch. 98
750, 7           1-10-1990   51.09
750, 8           1-10-1990   51.10
750, 9           1-10-1990   51.11
750, 11          1-10-1990   51.12
750, 12          1-10-1990   51.13
750, 13          1-10-1990   51.14
755, 1           1-23-1990   54.01
755, 1(a)        1-23-1990   54.02
755, 1(b)        1-23-1990   54.03
755, 1(c)        1-23-1990   54.04
755, 1(d)        1-23-1990   54.05
755, 1(e)        1-23-1990   54.06
755, 1(f)        1-23-1990   54.07
755, 1(g)        1-23-1990   54.08
755, 1(h)        1-23-1990   54.09
755, 1(i)        1-23-1990   54.10,
                             Ch. 98
755, 1(j)        1-23-1990   54.11
755, 1(k)        1-23-1990   54.12
755, 1(l)        1-23-1990   54.13
755, 1(m)        1-23-1990   54.14
755, 1(n)        1-23-1990   54.15
755, 1(o)        1-23-1990   54.16
755, 2           1-23-1990   54.17
755, 3           1-23-1990   54.18
755, 4           1-23-1990   54.19
755, 5           1-23-1990   54.20
755, 6           1-23-1990   54.21
756, 1           1-23-1990   51.35
756, 2           1-23-1990   51.36
756, 3           1-23-1990   51.37
756, 4           1-23-1990   51.38
756, 5           1-23-1990   51.39
756, 6           1-23-1990   51.40
756, 7           1-23-1990   51.41
756, 8           1-23-1990   51.42
756, 9           1-23-1990   51.43
756, 10          1-23-1990   51.44
756, 11          1-23-1990   51.45
756, 12          1-23-1990   51.46
756, 13          1-23-1990   51.47
756, 14          1-23-1990   51.48
756, 15          1-23-1990   51.49
756, 16          1-23-1990   51.50
756, 17          1-23-1990   51.99,
                             Ch. 98
756, 18          1-23-1990   51.51
761, 13(g)       2-13-1990   51.06
769, 6(a)        5-8-1990    51.08
780, 1           7-24-1990   90.15
706, 2           9-5-1990    150.002
706, 3           9-5-1990    150.003
706, 4           9-5-1990    150.004
706, 6           9-5-1990    150.006
706, 7           9-5-1990    150.007
706, 8           9-5-1990    150.008
706, 9           9-5-1990    150.009
706, 10          9-5-1990    150.010
706, 11          9-5-1990    150.011
706, 12          9-5-1990    150.012
706, 13          9-5-1990    150.013
706, 14          9-5-1990    150.014
706, 15          9-5-1990    150.015
706, 16          9-5-1990    150.016
706, 17          9-5-1990    150.017
706, 18          9-5-1990    150.018
706, 19          9-5-1990    150.019
706, 20          9-5-1990    150.999,
                             Ch 98
706, 21          9-5-1990    150.020
783              9-25-1990   Ch. 98
776, 1           11-13-1990  91.40
776, 2           11-13-1990  91.41
776, 3           11-13-1990  91.42
776, 4           11-13-1990  91.43
776, 5           11-13-1990  91.44
776, 6           11-13-1990  91.45
786, 8           12-11-1990  90.48
786, 9           12-11-1990  90.49
788, 1           12-11-1990  72.21
798              4-9-1991    91.45
802, d(3)        5-14-1991   54.05,
                             Ch. 98
816              11-12-1991  37.11
817              11-12-1991  37.10
818              11-12-1991  37.09
819              12-17-1991  30.02,
                             Ch. 98
835              - -1992     Ch. 98
828, 1           4-28-1992   32.04
828, 2           4-28-1992   32.04
832, 1           6-9-1992    Ch. 75 Sched. V
839              10-13-1992  51.03,
                             Ch. 98
844              12-22-1992  37.14
846, 1           12-22-1992  37.15
846, 2           12-22-1992  37.15
857, 1           6-8-1993    37.05
857, 2           6-8-1993    37.05
857, 3           6-8-1993    37.05
857, 4           6-8-1993    37.05
857, 5           6-8-1993    37.05
857, 6           6-8-1993    37.05
859, 1           7-27-1993   36.01
859, 2           7-27-1993   36.02
859, 5           7-27-1993   36.99
859, 6           7-27-1993   36.04
859, 8           7-27-1993   36.05
863, 1- 3        9-14-1993   Ch. 75 Sched. III,
                             Ch. 98
866, 3           10-12-1993  Ch. 74 Sched. I
873              1-25-1994   97.06
875, 1           3-22-1994   Ch. 75 Sched. VI
881, 1 - 6       4-12-1994   37.13
886, 1           8-23-1994   93.50
886, 2           8-23-1994   93.51
886, 4           8-23-1994   93.53
886, 6           8-23-1994   93.99
889, 3           9-27-1994   93.52
891, 1           11-8-1994   150.009
891, 2           11-8-1994   Ch. 98
892              1-10-1995   30.03
894, 9-65.1      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.2      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.3      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.4      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.5      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.6      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.7      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.8      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.9      2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.10     2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.11     2-14-1995   52.28
894, 9-65.12     2-14-1995   52.28,
                             Ch. 98
894, 9-65.13     2-14-1995   52.28
906, 3           7-25-1995   Ch. 74 Sched. I
912, 1           1-23-1996   30.02,
                             Ch. 98
912, 2           1-23-1996   30.02
913, 1           1-23-1996   150.027
917, 1 - 5       4-23-1996   37.16,
                             Ch. 98
919, 1 - 4       6-11-1996   Ch. 75 Sched. I,
                             Ch. 98
920, lb          6-25-1996   150.001
920, la          6-25-1996   150.001
920, 2           6-25-1996   150.021
920, 3           6-25-1996   150.022
927, 1           9-24-1996   91.14
928, 1           10-8-1996   Ch. 75 Sched. IV
928, 2           10-8-1996   Ch. 75 Sched. IV
928, 3           10-8-1996   Ch. 75 Sched. IV
928, 4           10-8-1996   Ch. 75 Sched. IV
928, 5           10-8-1996   Ch. 75 Sched. IV
928, 6           10-8-1996   Ch. 75 Sched. IV
929              12-17-1996  110.44
                             110.40-
929, 1           12-17-1996  110.43,
                             110.99,
                             Ch. 98
947, 1           - -1997     150.027,
                             Ch. 98
933, 1           1-28-1997   32.04
934, 1           2-25-1997   35.01
934, 2           2-25-1997   35.02
934, 4           2-25-1997   35.03,
                             35.04
934, 5           2-25-1997   35.05
934, 6           2-25 1997   35.06
934, 7           2-25-1997   35.07
934, 8           2-25-1997   35.08
934, 9           2-25-1997   35.09
934, 10          2-25-1997   35.10
934, 11          2-25-1997   35.11
934, 12          2-25-1997   35.12
934, 13          2-25-1997   35.13
934, 14          2-25-1997   35.14
934, 15          2-25-1997   35.99,
                             Ch. 98
934, 16          2-25-1997   35.15
934, 18          2-25-1997   35.16
934, 19          2-25-1997   35.17
934, 20          2-25-1997   35.18
942, c           6-24-1997   32.02
942, 2-5         6-24-1997   32.05
944, 1           7-22-1997   Ch. 98
945, 1 - 3       7-22-1997   37.17
948, 1           9-23-1997   Ch. 75 Sched. I,
                             Ch. 98
953, 2           9-23-1997   52.41
952, 1           10-14-1997  130.01,
                             130.99
956, 1           11-11-1997  33.01
956, 2           11-11-1997  33.01
940, 1           11-25-1997  31.01
940, 2           11-25-1997  31.02
940, 3           11-25-1997  31.03
951, 2           11-25-1997  93.41,
                             Ch. 98
951, 1           11-26-1997  93.40
958, 1 - 5       12-9-1997   110.06,
                             Ch. 98
                             95.01-
963, 2           1-27-1998   95.12,
                             Ch. 98
966, 2           1-27-1998   53.13
969, 1 - 4       2-10-1998   37.18
971, 1, 2        3-24-1998   53.27
972, 1, 2        3-24-1998   Ch. 75 Sched. I,
                             Ch. 98
                             93.25,
974, 1           4-14-1998   93.26,
                             93.99
975, 1           4-14-1998   34.02,
                             34.03
976, 1           4-14-1998   92.99,
                             Ch. 98
980, 1 - 3       5-12-1998   37.20
981, 1 - 3       5-12-1998   37.21
984, 1 - 5       6-9-1998    37.19
                             73.15,
                             73.26-
985, 1           6-23-1998   73.29,
                             73.34,
                             73.35
986, 1           6-23-1998   72.30
986, 2           6-23-1998   72.31
994, 1           8-25-1998   51.21,
                             Ch. 98
996              8-25-1998   38.21
996, 1           8-25-1998   38.15-
                             38.20
1016             4-27-1999   53.31
1018             5-25-1999   72.30,
                             72.31
1025             10-12-1999  32.03,
                             33.16
                             71.02,
1026             10-26-1999  71.99,
                             Ch. 98
1037             4-11-2000   33.16
                             51.03,
1042             6-27-2000   51.07,
                             Ch. 98
1046             9-12-2000   53.02,
                             Ch. 98
1050             9-26-2000   52.01-
                             52.05
1055             12-12-2000  30.60,
                             30.61
                             96.01-
1059             12-19-2000  96.03,
                             96.99,
                             Ch. 98
1060             12-19-2000  52.05
1069             5-8-2001    53.12,
                             53.13
1076             7-10-2001   30.06,
                             Ch. 98
1084             10-23-2001  150.009
1088             1-22-2002   37.20
1094             4-23-2002   50.02
                             90.40-
1110             5-13-2003   90.66,
                             Ch. 98
1113             7-22-2003   53.29,
                             Ch. 98
1114             7-22-2003   53.29,
                             Ch. 98
1115             7-22-2003   53.30,
                             Ch. 98
1118             9-23-2003   37.12
1119             10-14-2003  90.47,
                             Ch. 98
1120             10-28-2003  Ch. 74 Sched. VI
1125             4-27-2004   37.13
1134             11-9-2004   97.11
1144             8-9-2005    93.01-
                             93.07
                             94.01-
                             94.17,
                             94.19-
1154             9-12-2006   94.22,
                             94.30-
                             94.39,
                             94.99,
                             Ch. 98
1159             10-24-2006  37.06
1158             11-28-2006  91.10
1170             6-12-2007   Ch. 75 Sched. I
                             51.03,
1173             8-14-2007   51.07,
                             Ch. 98
                             53.05-
1174             8-14-2007   53.11,
                             Ch. 98
                             53.12,
1174, Appx A     8-14-2007   53.13,
                             Ch. 98
                             52.01-
1176             8-28-2007   52.05,
                             52.41,
                             Ch. 98
                             90.01-
                             90.15,
1197             - -2008     90.30,
                             90.31,
                             90.99,
                             Ch. 98
1196             5-27-2008   30.04
                             51.24,
1202             12- -2008   51.52,
                             Ch. 98
1205             1-10-2009   97.03,
                             Ch. 98
1207             2-24-2009   90.47,
                             Ch. 98
1209             4-14-2009   30.07,
                             Ch. 98
1215             6-23-2009   30.04,
                             Ch. 98
                             73.50-
1218             10-27-2009  73.61,
                             73.99,
                             Ch. 98
1221, 1.01(a)    1-26-2010   152.001
1221, 1.01(b)    1-26-2010   152.002
1221, 1.01(c)    1-26-2010   152.003
1221, 1.01(d)    1-26-2010   152.004
1221, 1.01(e)    1-26-2010   152.005
1221, 1.01(f)    1-26-2010   152.006
1221, 1.01(g)    1-26-2010   152.007
1221, 1.01(h)    1-26-2010   152.008
1221, 1.01(i)    1-26-2010   152.009
1221, 1.01(j)    1-26-2010   152.010
1221, 1.01(k)    1-26-2010   152.011
1221, 1.01(l)    1-26-2010   152.012
1221, 1.01(m)    1-26-2010   152.013
1221, 1.01(n)    1-26-2010   152.014
1221, 1.01(o)    1-26-2010   152.015
1221, 1.01(p)    1-26-2010   152.016
1221, 1.01(q)    1-26-2010   152.017
1221, 1.01(r)    1-26-2010   152.018
1221, 1.01(s)    1-26-2010   152.019
1221, 1.01(t)    1-26-2010   152.020
1221, 1.01(u)    1-26-2010   152.021
1221, 1.01(v)    1-26-2010   152.022
1221, 1.02(a)    1-26-2010   152.035
1221, 1.02(b)    1-26-2010   152.036
1221, 1.02(c)    1-26-2010   152.037
1221, 1.02(d)    1-26-2010   152.038
1221, 1.02(e)    1-26-2010   152.039
1221, 1.02(f)    1-26-2010   152.040
1221, 1.02(g)    1-26-2010   152.041
1221, 1.02(h)    1-26-2010   152.042
1221, 1.03(a)    1-26-2010   152.055
1221, 1.03(b)    1-26-2010   152.056
1221, 1.03(c)    1-26-2010   152.057
1221, 1.03(d)    1-26-2010   152.058
1221, 1.03(e)    1-26-2010   152.059
1221, 1.03(f)    1-26-2010   152.060
1221, 1.03(g)    1-26-2010   152.061
1221, 1.03(h)    1-26-2010   152.062
1221, 1.03(i)    1-26-2010   152.063
1221, 1.03(j)    1-26-2010   152.064
1221, 1.03(k)    1-26-2010   152.065
1221, 1.03(l)    1-26-2010   152.066
1221, 1.03(m)    1-26-2010   152.067
1221, Art. 3.01  1-26-2010   152.080
1221, Art. 3.02  1-26-2010   152.081
1221, Art. 3.03  1-26-2010   152.082
1221, 3.11(a)    1-26-2010   152.083
1221, 3.11(b)    1-26-2010   152.084
1221, 3.11(c)    1-26-2010   152.085
1221, 3.11(d)    1-26-2010   152.086
1221, 3.11(e)    1-26-2010   152.087
1221, 3.11(f)    1-26-2010   152.088
1221, 3.11(g)    1-26-2010   152.089
1221, 3.11(h)    1-26-2010   152.090
1221, 4.01       1-26-2010   152.115
1221, 4.02       1-26-2010   152.116
1221, 4.03       1-26-2010   152.117
1221, 4.04       1-26-2010   152.118
1221, 4.11(a)    1-26-2010   152.119
1221, 4.11(b)    1-26-2010   152.120
1221, 4.11(c)    1-26-2010   152.121
1221, 4.11(d)    1-26-2010   152.122
1221, 4.11(e)    1-26-2010   152.123
1221, 4.11(f)    1-26-2010   152.124
1221, 4.11(g)    1-26-2010   152.125
1221, 5.01       1-26-2010   152.140
1221, 5.02       1-26-2010   152.141
1221, 5.11(a)    1-26-2010   152.142
1221, 5.11(b)    1-26-2010   152.143
1221, 5.11(c)    1-26-2010   152.144
1221, 5.11(d)    1-26-2010   152.145
1221, 5.11(e)    1-26-2010   154.146
1221, 5.11(f)    1-26-2010   152.147
1221, 6(a)       1-26-2010   152.165
1221, Art. 6(b)  1-26-2010   152.166
1221, 6(c)       1-26-2010   152.167
1221, 6(d)       1-26-2010   152.168
1221, 6(e)       1-26-2010   152.169
1221, 6(f)       1-26-2010   152.170
1221, 6(g)       1-26-2010   152.171
1221, Art. 8     1-26-2010   152.185
1221, 8.01(a)    1-26-2010   152.186
1221, 8.01(b)    1-26-2010   152.187
1221, 8.01(c)    1-26-2010   152.188
1221, 8.01(d)    1-26-2010   152.189
1221, 8.01(e)    1-26-2010   152.190
1221, 8.01(f)    1-26-2010   152.191
1221, 8.01(g)    1-26-2010   152.192
1221, 8.01(h)    1-26-2010   152.193
1221, 8.01(i)    1-26-2010   152.194
1221, Art. 8.02  1-26-2010   152.210
1221, 8.02(a)    1-26-2010   152.211
1221, 8.02(b)    1-26-2010   152.212
1221, 8.02(c)    1-26-2010   152.213
1221, 8.02(d)    1-26-2010   152.214
1221, 8.02(e)    1-26-2010   152.215
1221, Art. 8.03  1-26-2010   152.230
1221, 8.03(a)    1-26-2010   152.231
1221, 8.03(b)    1-26-2010   152.232
1221, 8.03(c)    1-26-2010   152.233
1221, 8.03(d)    1-26-2010   152.234
1221, 8.03(e)    1-26-2010   152.235
1221, 8.03(f)    1-26-2010   152.236
1221, Art. 8.04  1-26-2010   152.250,
                             152.258
1221, 8.04(a)    1-26-2010   152.251
1221, 8.04(b)    1-26-2010   152.252
1221, 8.04(c)    1-26-2010   152.253
1221, 8.04(d)    1-26-2010   152.254
1221, 8.04(e)    1-26-2010   152.255
1221, 8.04(f)    1-26-2010   152.256
1221, 8.04(g)    1-26-2010   152.257
1221, Art. 8.05  1-26-2010   152.270
1221, 8.05(a)    1-26-2010   152.271
1221, 8.05(b)    1-26-2010   152.272
1221, 8.05(c)    1-26-2010   152.273
1221, 8.05(d)    1-26-2010   152.274
1221, 8.05(e)    1-26-2010   152.275
1221, 8.05(f)    1-26-2010   152.276
1221, 8.05(g)    1-26-2010   152.277
1221, 9.01(a)    1-26-2010   152.290
1221, 9.01(b)    1-26-2010   152.291
1221, 9.01(c)    1-26-2010   152.292
1221, 9.01(d)    1-26-2010   152.293
1221, 9.01(e)    1-26-2010   152.294
1221, 9.01(f)    1-26-2010   152.295
1221, Art. 9.02  1-26-2010   152.305
1221, Art. 9.03  1-26-2010   152.330
1221, 9.03(a)    1-26-2010   152.331
1221, 9.03(b)    1-26-2010   152.332
1221, 9.04A.     1-26-2010   152.345
1221, 9.04B.     1-26-2010   152.346
1221, 9.04C.     1-26-2010   152.347
1221, 9.04D.     1-26-2010   152.348
1221, 9.04E.     1-26-2010   152.349
1221, 9.04F.     1-26-2010   152.350
1221, 10.01      1-26-2010   152.365
1221, 10.02      1-26-2010   152.366
1221, 10.03      1-26-2010   152.367
1221, 10.04      1-26-2010   152.368
1221, Art. 10.05 1-26-2010   152.385
1221, 10.05(a)   1-26-2010   152.386
1221, 10.05(b)   1-26-2010   152.387
1221, 10.05(c)   1-26-2010   152.388
1221, 10.05(d)   1-26-2010   152.389
1221, 10.05(e)   1-26-2010   152.390
1221, 10.05(f)   1-26-2010   152.391
1221, Art. 11(a) 1-26-2010   152.405
1221, Art. 11(b) 1-26-2010   152.406
1221, Art. 11(c) 1-26-2010   152.407
1221, Art. 11(d) 1-26-2010   152.408
1221, Art. 11(e) 1-26-2010   152.409
1221, Art. 11(f) 1-26-2010   152.410
1221, Art. 11(g) 1-26-2010   152.411
1221, Art. 11(h) 1-26-2010   152.412
1221, Art. 11(i) 1-26-2010   152.413
1221, 12.01      1-26-2010   152.425
1221, 12.02      1-26-2010   152.426
1221, Art. 13    1-26-2010   Ch. 152, Appx A
1221, Art. 14    1-26-2010   152.440
1221, Art. 14(a) 1-26-2010   152.441,
                             Ch. 98
1221, Art. 14(b) 1-26-2010   152.442,
                             Ch. 98
1221, Art. 14(c) 1-26-2010   Ch. 98
1221, Art. 14(d) 1-26-2010   152.443,
                             152.444
1221, Art. 14(e) 1-26-2010   152.445
1221, Art. 14(f) 1-26-2010   152.446
1221, Exh. A     1-26-2010   Ch. 152, Appx B-1
1221, Exh. B     1-26-2010   Ch. 152, Appx B-2
1221, Exh. C     1-26-2010   Ch. 152, Appx B-3
1221, Exh. D     1-26-2010   Ch. 152, Appx B-4
1221, Exh. E     1-26-2010   Ch. 152, Appx B-5
1221, Exh. F     1-26-2010   Ch. 152, Appx B-6
1223, 1.1        5-11-2010   151.001
1223, 1.2        5-11-2010   151.002
1223, 1.3        5-11-2010   151.003
1223, 1.4        5-11-2010   151.004
1223, 1.7        5-11-2010   151.005
1223, 1.8        5-11-2010   151.006
1223, 1.9        5-11-2010   151.007
1223, 1.10       5-11-2010   151.008
1223, 1.11       5-11-2010   151.009
1223, 1.12       5-11-2010   151.010
1223, 1.13       5-11-2010   151.011
1223, 1.14       5-11-2010   151.012
1223, 1.15       5-11-2010   151.013
1223, 1.16       5-11-2010   151.025
1223, 1.17       5-11-2010   151.026
1223, 1.18       5-11-2010   151.014
1223, 1.19       5-11-2010   151.040
1223, 1.20       5-11-2010   151.041
1223, 1.21       5-11-2010   151.042
1223, 1.22       5-11-2010   151.043
1223, 1.23       5-11-2010   151.044
1223, 2.1        5-11-2010   151.055
1223, 2.2        5-11-2010   151.056
1223, 2.3        5-11-2010   151.057
1223, 2.4        5-11-2010   151.058
1223, 2.5        5-11-2010   151.059
1223, 2.6        5-11-2010   151.060
1223, 2.7        5-11-2010   151.061
1223, 3.1        5-11-2010   151.075
1223, 3.2        5-11-2010   151.076
1223, 3.3        5-11-2010   151.077
1223, 3.4        5-11-2010   151.078
1223, 3.5        5-11-2010   151.079
1223, 3.6        5-11-2010   151.080
1223, 3.7        5-11-2010   151.081
1223, 3.8        5-11-2010   151.082
1223, 3.9        5-11-2010   151.083
1223, 3.10       5-11-2010   151.084
1223, 3.11       5-11-2010   151.085
1223, 4.1        5-11-2010   151.095
1223, 4.2        5-11-2010   151.096
1223, 4.3        5-11-2010   151.097
1223, 4.4        5-11-2010   151.098
1223, 4.5        5-11-2010   151.099
1223, 5.1        5-11-2010   151.110
1223, 5.2        5-11-2010   151.111
1223, 5.3        5-11-2010   151.112
1223, 5.4        5-11-2010   151.113
1223, Art. 6     5-11-2010   151.125,
                             151.126
1223, Form A     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx A
1223, Form B     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx B
1223, Form C     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx C
1223, Form D     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx D
1223, Form E     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx E
1223, Form F     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx F
1223, Form G     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx G
1223, Form H     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx H
1223, Form I     5-11-2010   Ch. 151, Appx I
1226             6-22-2010   33.04, 33.99,
                             Ch. 98
                             Ch. 98,
1232             1-11-2011   130.03,
                             130.99
1236             3-22-2011   Ch. 98
                             52.01-
                             52.05,
1240             4-26-2011   52.10,
                             52.11,
                             52.41,
                             Ch. 98
1241             4-26-2011   51.03,
                             Ch. 98
                             53.05-
                             53.13,
                             53.25,
1242             4-26-2011   53.29,
                             53.32,
                             53.33,
                             Ch. 98
1248             12-13-2011  152.254
1251             11-7-2011   Ch. 75, Sched. I
                             151.057-
1252             12-28-2011  151.059,
                             151.110-
                             151.113
1265             2-12-2013   51.03 ,
                             Ch. 98
1268             4-9-2013    Ch. 152, Appx A
1270             4-9-2013    152.392
1274             6-25-2013   90.14
1275             6-11-2013   37.19
1290             6-24-2014   92.01,
                             92.02
1292             5-27-2014   90.41
1302             12-29-2014  30.05
1305             2-24-2015   52.12,
                             52.13
1306             4-14-2015   53.12,
                             53.13
1308             4-15-2015   90.14
                             51.01,
                             51.05,
1310             6-11-2015   51.07,
                             51.08,
                             Ch. 98
                             53.10 
                             53.12,
1311             6-11-2015   53.25,
                             53.32,
                             Ch. 98
1317             11-10-2015  52.41
1319             12-8-2015   53.12
                             150.080 
                             150.084,
1324             6-28-2016   150.088,
                             150.090 
                             150.096,
                             150.999
1325             6-28-2016   72.04
1327             5-24-2016   37.22
1329             8-23-2016   90.47
1330             8-23-2016   90.47
1335             10-25-2016  53.12,
                             Ch. 98
1336             10-25-2016  51.03,
                             Ch. 98
1337             12-13-2016  110.30
                             52.01 
1340             12-29-2016  52.05,
                             52.41,
                             Ch. 98
                             53.05 
                             53.13,
                             53.16,
1343             3-14-2017   53.28,
                             53.29,
                             Ch. 98,
                             150.009
1344             7-11-2017   52.41,
                             Ch. 98
1347             8-22-2017   53.12,
                             Ch. 98
1352             11-14-2017  37.23
1353             11-14-2017  Ch. 74, Sched. I
1369             11-13-2018  72.02
1375             1-22-2019   31.21
1377             3-19-2019   30.01
1378             3-19-2019   37.24
1383             9-17-2019   53.12,
                             Ch. 98
1385             12-3-2019   34.03
1386             12-3-2019   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1392             7-21-2020   53.34
1396             8-18-2020   32.06
1411             5-4-2021    37.25
1412             7-7-2021    94.36,
                             Ch. 98
1422             2-15-2022   110.06
1423             3-15-2022   37.19
1424             3-28-2022   30.01
1425             3-28-2022   37.24
1427             5-27-2022   37.24
                             53.05 -
                             53.13,
                             53.16,
1431             11-15-2022  53.28,
                             53.29,
                             Ch. 98,
                             150.009
1447             4-4-2023    90.43
1454             8-16-2023   Ch. 152, Appx A
1461             1-16-2024   51.03,
                             Ch. 98
                             52.01 -
                             52.05,
1462             1-16-2024   52.14,
                             52.41,
                             Ch. 98
1464             4-2-2024    52.15,
                             Ch. 98
1467             6-4-2024    Ch. 98
                             90.01 -
1470             7-9-2024    90.15,
                             Ch. 98
1471             7-23-2024   Ch. 98
1472             8-6-2024    32.07
1478             11-6-2024   52.60
                             52.01 -
                             52.05,
1479             12-17-2024  52.14,
                             52.41,
                             Ch. 98
1483             2-4-2025    37.26 -
                             37.28
                            
 
 
