NEW HAVEN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains local legislation
current through Ord. G-24-22, passed 12-17-2024
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts,
Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. G-18-7
AN ORDINANCE RECODIFYING THE CITY OF NEW HAVEN CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the City of New Haven maintains a Code of Ordinances usually
referred to as the “New Haven Code;” and
   WHEREAS, from time to time new ordinances are passed, older ordinances are
repealed, and other ordinances are amended; and
   WHEREAS, the City of New Haven has contracted with American Legal Publishing
to assist in updating and recodifying the New Haven Code; and
   WHEREAS, as a result of the joint efforts of the City of New Haven and
American Legal Publishing, the City of New Haven has decided it is in its best
interest to renumber many of the section and heading numbers of the New Haven
Code so as to make it more logically organized and to allow for additions at
the various sections in the Code; and
   WHEREAS, as a result of the joint efforts of the City of New Haven and
American Legal Publishing, the new recodified version of the Code is ready to
publish.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEW
HAVEN that the New Haven City Code shall be recodified as follows:
   [see listing in original Ordinance G-18-7]
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
by the Common Council, approved by the Mayor, and legal publication as required
by law.
                                       /s/ Terry E. McDonald
                                       Presiding Officer
   This Ordinance presented by me to the Mayor on the 12th day of June, 2018 at
the hour of 7:27 p.m.
                                       /s/ Brenda Adams
                                       Brenda Adams, Clerk-Treasurer
   This Ordinance approved and executed by me on this 12th day of June, 2018 at
the hour of 7:27 p.m.
                                       /s/ Terry E. McDonald
                                       Terry E. McDonald, Mayor
   ATTEST:
   /s/ Brenda Adams
   Brenda Adams, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO G-19-11
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF NEW HAVEN, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of New
Haven, which supplement contains all ordinances and index of all resolutions of
a general nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinance
which are based on or make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of New
Haven, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION l. That the 2018 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
New Haven, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Common Council and the Clerk Treasurer is hereby
authorized and ordered to inset such supplement into the copies of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and in effect from and after its
passage and signing by the Mayor and legal publication.
 
                                           /s/ Terry E. McDonald
                                          Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
/s/ Natalie Strock
Natalie Strock
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of New Haven on the 9th day of
July, 2019 at the hour of 7:08 p.m .
                                           /s/ Natalie Strock
                                          Natalie Strock, Clerk Treasurer
   Approved and signed by me on the 9th day of July, 2019, at the hour of 7:09
p.m.
                                           /s/ Terry E. McDonald
                                          Terry E. McDonald, Mayor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   References to other sections
   
10.08   References to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a pertinent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “New Haven
Code” or “City Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified
Ordinances,” or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) (Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Indiana Code.
(Prior Code, § 10.02) (Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03) (Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto re-enacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if
it had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws re-enacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and re- enacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state statute, see I.C. 1-1-1-5
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the City Council.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of New Haven.
      COUNTY. The County of Allen, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the whole or
a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
      PERSON or WHOEVER. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm,
corporation, co-partnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic.
Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms
PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or
agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines of the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the WRITTEN signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions applicable to construction of all Indiana statutes, see I.C. 1-
1-4-5
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) of
this section does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state statute, see I.C. 1-1-1-8
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Incorrect names, see I.C. 1-1-6-1
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a
word or words when another word or words was clearly intended to express the
intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or words supplied,
omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest intention, and the
provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct words were
contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall be made or
permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where a section requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state statute, see I.C. 1-1-5-1
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and re-enacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions
for causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code
may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not
been enacted.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history by "(Prior Code, § _)."
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
    (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. G-18-8, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMON COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   FINANCE AND FUNDS
      
34.   ROADS AND STREETS MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE AND WHEEL TAXES
      
35.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
CHAPTER 30: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
Rules and Regulations for Government
of Common Council
   
30.01   Initial meeting of Common Council members
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Regularly scheduled meetings
   
30.04   Special meetings
   
30.05   Quorum
   
30.06   Majority vote required
   
30.07   Two-thirds vote required
   
30.08   Procedure for passage of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.09   Passage on day of introduction
   
30.10   Ordinances imposing a penalty or forfeiture
   
30.11   Procedure after passage of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.12   Record of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.13   Journal of Common Council proceedings
   
30.14   Open meetings required
   
30.15   Secret ballots prohibited
   
30.16   Public notice of meetings
   
30.17   Executive sessions
   
30.18   Order of business
   
30.19   Roll call votes
   
30.20   Introduction of ordinance, resolution or other business
   
30.21   Identification of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.22   Reading of ordinances and voting
   
30.23   Effective date of ordinance
   
30.24   Introduction of resolutions and voting
   
30.25   Committees
   
30.26   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.27   Amendment of rules
Councilmanic Districts
   
30.40   Division into five districts
   
30.41   Two at-large districts
   
30.42   Voting
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT OF COMMON COUNCIL
§ 30.01 INITIAL MEETING OF COMMON COUNCIL MEMBERS.
    The members-elect of the Common Council shall hold their first regular
meeting in January after their election at the hour of 6:00 p.m. in the Council
chambers.
   (A)   The members-elect at such meeting shall review the existing rules of
the Common Council and determine if these rules shall be altered, amended or
rescinded and may adopt a motion to accept such rules as established or may
make recommendations to alter, amend or rescind any rule or rules in part or in
toto.
   (B)   The members-elect shall transact any other business as shall be
required by statute not limited to, but to include, the election of a Council
member to the city’s Plan Commission and of any other special body to which the
Council shall be entitled to name a member.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992; Ord. G-19-22, passed 12-
23-2019; Ord. G-22-39, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor of the city to preside at all meetings of
the Common Council of the city.
   (A)   The Mayor, while so presiding, shall have a casting vote in case of a
tie, but not otherwise.
   (B)   The members of the Common Council shall choose a President pro tempore
from its members, who shall preside whenever the Mayor is absent from any
meeting for any cause.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. G-01-7, passed 6-26-2001; Ord. G-02-03, passed 4-9-
2002)
§ 30.03 REGULARLY SCHEDULED MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Common Council of the city shall meet in regular session at 5:30
p.m. (EST) on the first and third Tuesday of each and every month, except if
such date shall fall on a legal holiday, the date of such monthly meeting can
be determined to be at a time and date in said month as shall be determined by
a majority of the members of the Common Council at the regular meeting held in
the month immediately prior thereto.
   (B)   One, but not more than one, regularly scheduled meeting each month may
be canceled; provided that, the Mayor determines there to be insufficient
business to warrant holding the meeting and that, before 5:00 p.m. on the
Friday before the scheduled meeting date, notice of such cancellation is posted
at City Hall and is mailed to the City Attorney and all persons who are
entitled to receive notice of special meetings.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992; Ord. G-19-22, passed 12-
23-2019; Ord. G-21-24, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. G-23-24, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 30.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Common Council shall be held upon the call of the
Mayor or of any four members of the Common Council, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the person or persons calling the special
meeting to duly notify the Clerk-Treasurer thereof in writing in time to
reasonably permit the Clerk-Treasurer to prepare and serve notice on all
members at least 48 hours prior to the time of the meeting as hereafter
provided, whereupon it shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to cause notice
of such special meeting to be served in writing upon each member, either in
person or by notice left at his or her place of residence.
   (B)   Only such ordinances, resolutions or such communications received or
other business shall be considered or acted upon as are specifically stated in
the call for the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.05 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the members-elect of the Common Council shall constitute a
quorum.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.06 MAJORITY VOTE REQUIRED.
   A majority vote of all members-elect of the Common Council shall be required
to pass an ordinance, resolution, order or motion unless a greater number shall
be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.07 TWO-THIRDS VOTE REQUIRED.
   Whenever it is required that any ordinance or resolution shall be passed or
other action of the Common Council taken by a two-thirds vote, such requirement
shall be construed to mean a two-thirds vote of all the members-elect.
(Prior Code, § 30.07) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.08 PROCEDURE FOR PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   No ordinance, order or resolution of the Common Council shall become a law,
or be operative, until it has been signed by the presiding officer of the
Common Council, and approved in writing by the Mayor or passed over the Mayor’s
veto and promulgated according to law, whenever necessary.
(Prior Code, § 30.08) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.09 PASSAGE ON DAY OF INTRODUCTION.
   No ordinance shall be passed on the same day, or at the same meeting, that
such ordinance is introduced, except by unanimous consent to proceed and to
suspend these rules, and then only in case there are present and voting at
least two-thirds of all the members-elect of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.09) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.10 ORDINANCES IMPOSING A PENALTY OR FORFEITURE.
   Every ordinance duly adopted by the Common Council imposing a penalty or
forfeiture for the violation thereof shall, before the same shall take effect,
be published as required by law, except if there is an urgent necessity
requiring its immediate effectiveness, the Mayor proclaims the urgent
necessity, and copies of the ordinance are posted in three public places in
each of the districts from which members are elected to the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.10) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.11 PROCEDURE AFTER PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Every ordinance, order or resolution of the Common Council shall immediately
upon its passage, enrollment, attestation and signature by the Clerk-Treasurer
and presiding officer, be presented by the Clerk-Treasurer to the Mayor, and a
record of the time of such presentation made by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (A)   Within ten days after an ordinance, order or resolution is presented
to him or her, the Mayor shall:
      (1)   Approve the ordinance, order or resolution, by entering his or her
approval on it, signing it and sending the Common Council a message announcing
his or her approval; or
      (2)   Veto the ordinance, order or resolution, by returning it to the
Common Council with a message announcing his or her veto and stating his or her
reasons for the veto.
   (B)   If the Mayor fails to perform his or her duty under division (A)
above, the ordinance, order or resolution is considered vetoed, in which case
the Clerk-Treasurer will present the ordinance to the Common Council at the
next meeting when it may be properly placed on the agenda.
   (C)   Whenever an ordinance, order or resolution is vetoed by the Mayor, it
is considered defeated unless the Common Council, at its first regular or
special meeting after the ten-day period prescribed by division (A) above,
passes the ordinance, order or resolution over his or her veto by a two-thirds
vote.
(Prior Code, § 30.11) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.12 RECORD OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   All ordinances shall, within a reasonable time after their approval by
the Mayor or their passage over his or her veto, be recorded in a book kept for
that purpose by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Such record shall include the signature of the presiding officer, the
attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer and the Mayor’s written approval or
disapproval and, in the latter case, a memorandum of the passage of the
ordinance over the veto, with the date of such acts.
   (C)   Proof of publication of all ordinances requiring publication shall be
procured by the Clerk-Treasurer and attached to such ordinance and filed
therewith.
   (D)   Such record, or a certified copy thereof, shall be presumptive
evidence of the passage and going into effect of such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.12) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.13 JOURNAL OF COMMON COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep accurate minutes of the proceedings of
the Common Council and as the meeting of the Council progresses, the following
memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Council recorded as present or absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matter proposed, discussed or decided;
and
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, and by individual members if there is
a roll call.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Council’s
proceedings and shall be kept in a permanent file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The minutes of all meetings of the Council shall be transcribed by the
Clerk-Treasurer as soon as possible after the meeting and in any event prior to
the next meeting of the Council and shall be open to the public for inspection
and copying.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a permanent file of all original
papers, documents, reports and correspondence filed with or submitted to the
Council.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be custodian of all ordinances, resolutions,
petitions, memorials and all other papers pertaining to the business of the
Common Council.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall call the roll of the members of the Common
Council at each meeting.
   (G)   If an agenda is used by the Council, the Clerk-Treasurer shall post a
copy of the agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the
meeting. A rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by
reference to agenda number or item alone shall be prohibited and such action
shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 30.13) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.14 OPEN MEETINGS REQUIRED.
   All meetings of the Common Council, except as otherwise provided in these
rules or by statutes, shall be open at all times for the purpose of permitting
members of the public to observe and record them.
(Prior Code, § 30.14) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.15 SECRET BALLOTS PROHIBITED.
   A secret ballot vote may not be taken at any meeting of the Common Council
on any matter.
(Prior Code, § 30.15) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.16 PUBLIC NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting, shall be given at least
48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) before the meeting.
This requirement does not apply to reconvened meetings (not including executive
sessions) where announcement of the date, time and place of the reconvened
meeting is made at the original meeting and recorded in the memoranda and
minutes thereof, and there is no change in the agenda.
   (B)   Public notice shall be given by the Clerk-Treasurer by:
      (1)   Posting a copy of the notice at the City Hall; and
      (2)   Depositing in the United States mail with postage prepaid or by
delivering notice to all news media which deliver by January 1 an annual
written request for such notices for the next succeeding calendar year to the
Council.
   (C)   Notice of regular meetings need be given only once each year; except
that, an additional notice shall be given where the date, time or place of a
regular meeting or meetings is changed. This division (C) does not apply to
executive sessions.
   (D)   If a meeting is called to deal with an emergency involving actual or
threatened injury to person or property, or actual or threatened disruption of
the governmental activity under the jurisdiction of the Common Council by any
event, then the time requirements of notice under this section shall not apply,
but:
      (1)   News media which have requested notice of meetings must be given
the same notice as is given to the members of the Council; and
      (2)   The public must be notified by posting a copy of the notice
according to this section.
   (E)   This section shall not apply where notice by publication is required
by statute, ordinance, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 30.16) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.17 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing;
            3.   The implementation of security systems; and
            4.   The purchase or lease of real property by the governing body
up to the time a contract or option to purchase or lease is executed by the
parties.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (4)   With respect to any individual over whom the Common Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician.
      (5)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (6)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
ability, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (7)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (A)(7) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process; and
      (8)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications; and
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Common Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration.
      (2)   An initial exclusion of prospective appointees from further
consideration may not reduce the number of prospective appointees to fewer than
three unless there are fewer than three prospective appointees. Interviews of
prospective appointees must be conducted at a meeting that is open to the
public.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (A) above. The requirements stated in §
30.13 of this chapter for memoranda and minutes being made available to the
public is modified as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes
must identify the subject matter considered by specific reference to the
enumerated instance or instances for which public notice was given. The Common
Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the
governing body that no subject matter was discussed in the executive session
other than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Common Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(Prior Code, § 30.17) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.18 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business at Common Council meetings shall be as
determined by the Chair, unless such order is objected to by a majority of the
Council present, in which case, the following order of business shall be
observed:
      (1)   Roll call of members;
      (2)   Reading, correcting and approval of the minutes of the proceedings
of the prior regular or special meeting;
      (3)   Reports of standing committees;
      (4)   Ordinances on second reading, third or final reading of ordinances;
      (5)   Introductions of ordinances and resolutions; and
      (6)   Miscellaneous business.
   (B)   The reading of the minutes may be dispensed with at any time by order
of the Council.
   (C)   The Council may order a return to any order of business after the call
of the regular order of business.
   (D)    The Clerk-Treasurer shall cause a written agenda, accompanied by all
deliberative material related to agenda items, to be mailed to each Council
member at least 30 hours in advance of each regularly scheduled meeting.
   (E)   The Common Council may not consider any item of business not described
on the agenda and not accompanied by all appropriate deliberative material
unless the Council shall, by a two-thirds vote of all the elected members, find
an emergency to exist.
(Prior Code, § 30.18) (Ord. G-01-7, passed 6-26-2001; Ord. G-02-03, passed 4-9-
2002; Ord. G-19-22, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 30.19 ROLL CALL VOTES.
   (A)   The presiding officer shall decide whether any question is carried by
affirmative or negative vote; provided that, if in doubt or if a roll call vote
be demanded, the Council shall decide by roll call vote.
   (B)   All votes upon the passage of ordinances and resolutions, upon motions
to suspend the rules or motions to reconsider, shall be by roll call.
   (C)   Upon a roll call vote on any question, after any one member shall have
voted, it shall not be in order for any member to offer remarks, except in
explanation of his or her vote, which he or she may do only simultaneously with
the casting of his or her vote.
   (D)   Any member may demand a roll call upon any question to be voted upon
by the Council, and when such demand is made the Clerk-Treasurer shall call the
roll.
(Prior Code, § 30.19) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.20 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCE, RESOLUTION OR OTHER BUSINESS.
   An ordinance, resolution or any other item of business may be introduced by
any member of the Common Council or by the Chair.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.21 IDENTIFICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Immediately subsequent to introduction, each ordinance and resolution
shall have a number assigned to it by the Clerk-Treasurer. The number shall
consist of a letter prefix, as prescribed in this section followed by the last
two digits of the calendar year in which introduced, and followed by the number
in the sequence of introduction within each particular year. All ordinances,
regardless of subject matter, shall be numbered in the same sequence for each
year beginning with number one from and after the first day of each year
together with the appropriate prefix therefor as prescribed in this section.
      (1)   The prefix for appropriation ordinances shall be the letter “A”.
      (2)   The prefix for special ordinance shall be the letter “S”.
      (3)   The prefix for zoning map ordinances, shall be the letter “Z”.
      (4)   The prefix for annexation ordinances shall be the letter “X”.
      (5)   The prefix for general ordinances shall be the letter “G”.
   (B)   Resolutions shall be numbered in a separate sequence, beginning with
number one from and after January 1 of each year, to which number there shall
be added the prefix “R”.
   (C)   Appropriation ordinances shall be limited to those appropriating the
funds of the city.
   (D)   Special ordinances shall be limited to those relating to contracts and
the business affairs of the city.
   (E)   Zoning map ordinances shall be limited to those amending the zoning
map of the city or the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (F)   Annexation ordinances shall be limited to those annexing territory to
the city.
   (G)   General ordinances shall be limited to those relating to the
government of the city.
(Prior Code, § 30.21) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.22 READING OF ORDINANCES AND VOTING.
   (A)   All ordinances shall be read at least three times by the Clerk-
Treasurer, and no ordinances shall be passed upon the same day or at the same
meeting it is introduced, except by a two-thirds vote of all the elected
members, after unanimous consent of the members present to consider the
ordinance.
   (B)   An ordinance, upon introduction, shall be read by the Clerk-Treasurer
the first time in full unless Council votes unanimously to read by title only
as permitted by statute. While on second reading, the ordinance shall be open
for amendments; thereafter, upon motion duly adopted, it may read the second
time by title.
   (C)   After second reading, the ordinance shall be on third reading, at
which time it shall again be subject to amendment; thereafter, on motion duly
adopted, it may be placed upon its passage and, in such instance, shall be
finally voted upon after being read in full or by title as specified by such
motion.
   (D)   Any ordinance failing to receive a majority of the votes upon second
reading shall be considered as still upon second reading unless stricken from
the files or otherwise disposed of by the Common Council.
   (E)   Any ordinance failing to receive a sufficient number of votes on final
passage, will be considered as lost; provided, however, that, the vote thereon
may be reconsidered within the time and in the manner provided in division (F)
below.
   (F)   When any question has been once decided in the affirmative or
negative, any member voting with the majority may move a reconsideration
thereof at the same or next regular meeting; provided that, no such motion
shall be introduced at the next regular meeting unless the member intending to
make the motion shall have given written notice of such intention at the
meetings at which the vote which he or she desired to have reconsidered was
taken.
(Prior Code, § 30.22) (Ord. G-01-7, passed 6-26-2001; Ord. G-02-03, passed 4-9-
2002)
§ 30.23 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Common Council, requiring publication,
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof as required by
law.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 30.23) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.24 INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTIONS AND VOTING.
   A resolution may be acted upon at the meeting at which it is introduced;
provided that, a resolution requiring specific action by any person shall be
processed the same as an ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.24) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.25 COMMITTEES.
   The Common Council may, by resolution, establish committees if it shall deem
such committees necessary in carrying out the business of the Council. Such
resolution shall establish the purpose and functions of such committees and the
members thereof.
(Prior Code, § 30.25) (Ord. G-01-7, passed 6-26-2001; Ord. G-02-03, passed 4-9-
2002)
§ 30.26 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised, the latest edition, shall be the
controlling authority on all questions of parliamentary law and procedure not
specifically covered by the rules adopted by the Common Council for the conduct
of business or by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.26) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
§ 30.27 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Common Council may be amended, modified or annulled by two-
thirds vote of all of the members-elect of the Common Council. All proposed
amendments to such rules shall be proposed at a regular meeting of the Council,
but no final action may be taken thereon until a subsequent special or regular
meeting of the Council shall be duly convened.
(Prior Code, § 30.27) (Ord. G-92-1, passed 3-10-1992)
COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS
§ 30.40 DIVISION INTO FIVE DISTRICTS.
   All territory within the corporate limits of the city is divided into five
councilmanic districts, numbered 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and they are as follows.
   (A)   Councilmanic District Number 1, is described and defined as follows:
beginning at the intersection of the north right-of-way of the northernmost
rail line of the Norfolk Southern Railroad, also being the current New Haven
corporation line and the centerline of Estella Avenue, said point being 128
feet +/- north of Old Maumee Road; thence east, northerly, easterly, southerly
and westerly, meandering on and along the New Haven corporation line to the
intersection of said corporation line and the centerline of Summit Street, said
point being 760 feet +/- east of Linden Road; thence westerly on the centerline
of Summit Street to the intersection with the centerline of Eben Street; thence
north on the centerline of Eben Street to the intersection with the centerline
of Main Street; thence westerly on the centerline of Main Street to the
intersection with the centerline of Hartzell Road; thence south on the
centerline of Hartzell Road to the intersection with the north right-of-way of
the southernmost rail line of the Norfolk Southern Railroad; said point being
755 feet +/- north of Lincoln Highway; thence westerly along said railroad
right-of-way to the intersection with the centerline of Estella Avenue; thence
north on the centerline of Estella Avenue to the intersection of the north
right-of-way of the northernmost rail line of the Norfolk Southern Railroad,
also being the current New Haven corporation line, and the centerline of
Estella Avenue, said point also being the point of beginning.
   (B)   Councilmanic District Number 2, is described and defined as follows:
beginning at the intersection of centerline of Green Street and the centerline
of Summit Street; thence east on the centerline of Summit Street to the
intersection of the New Haven corporation line, said point being 760 feet +/
- east of Linden Road; thence east, northerly, easterly, southerly and
westerly, meandering on and along the New Haven corporation line to the
intersection with the centerline of Green Road; thence north on the centerline
of Green Road and Green Street to the intersection with the centerline of
Summit Street, said point also being the point of beginning.
   (C)   Councilmanic District Number 3, is described and defined as follows:
beginning at the centerline of Green Road and the New Haven corporation line at
Seiler Road; thence westerly and southerly meandering on and along the New
Haven corporation line to the southwest corner of the Pinestone Subdivision.
Thence north on the west line of the Pinestone Subdivision, said line also
being the west line of Section 13 Adams Township, extending to the centerline
of Seiler Road; thence continuing on and along the west line of said Section 13
and the west line of Section 12 Adams Township to the intersection with the
centerline of State Road 930; thence westerly on the centerline of State Road
930 to the intersection with the centerline of the Trier Drain; thence
southerly and westerly along the meanderings of the centerline of the Trier
Drain to the intersection with the centerline of Hartzell Road; thence north on
the centerline of Hartzell Road to the intersection with the centerline of Main
Street; thence east on the centerline of Main Street to the intersection with
the centerline of Eben Street; thence south on the centerline of Eben Street to
the intersection with the centerline of Summit Street; thence east on the
centerline of Summit Street to the intersection with the centerline of Green
Street; thence south on the centerline of Green Street and Green Road to the
intersection with the New Haven corporation line at Seiler Road, said point
also being the point of beginning.
   (D)   Councilmanic District Number 4, is described and defined as follows:
beginning at the southwest corner of the Pinestone Subdivision; thence west,
northerly and westerly on and along the meanderings of the New Haven
corporation line to the intersection with the centerline of Woodmere Drive;
thence north on the centerline of Woodmere Drive to the intersection with the
centerline of Sara Drive; thence west on the centerline of Sara Drive to the
intersection with the centerline of Shannon Drive; thence northerly on the
centerline of Shannon Drive to the intersection with the centerline of Bedford
Drive; thence northwesterly on the centerline of Bedford Drive to the
intersection with the centerline of Sherbrook Drive; thence northerly on the
centerline of Sherbrook Drive to the intersection with the centerline of
Melbourne Drive; thence northerly on the centerline of Melbourne Drive to the
intersection with the south property line of 1160 Melbourne Drive (PIN
021311355015000041) extended east to the centerline of Melbourne Drive; thence
west on and along the south line of 1160 Melbourne Drive and the south line of
1161 Brookwood Drive (PIN 0213104830120- 00041) to the intersection with the
centerline of Brookwood Drive; thence northerly on and along the centerline of
Brookwood Drive to the intersection of the centerline of State Road 930; thence
easterly on the centerline of State Road 930 to the intersection with the
centerline of Hartzell Road; thence south on the centerline of Hartzell Road to
the intersection with the centerline of the Trier Drain; thence easterly and
northerly on and along the meanderings of the centerline of the Trier Drain the
intersection with the centerline of State Road 930; thence easterly on the
centerline of State Road 930 to the intersection with the centerline of Werling
Road; thence south on the centerline of Werling Road and extending south to the
southwest corner of the Pinestone Subdivision, said point also being the point
of beginning. This description excepts 9017 Seiler Road (PIN
021314478014000039) and 9125 Seiler Road (PIN 021314478016000039) not currently
annexed into the city.
   (E)   Councilmanic District Number 5, is described and defined as follows:
beginning at the intersection of the north right-of-way of the northernmost
rail line of the Norfolk Southern Railroad, also being the current New Haven
corporation line and the centerline of Estella Avenue, said point being 128
feet +/- north of Old Maumee Road; thence south on the centerline of Estella
Avenue to the intersection with the north right-of-way line of the southernmost
rail line of the Norfolk Southern Railroad; said point being 462 feet +/- south
of Nelson Road; thence easterly along said railroad right-of-way to the
intersection with the centerline of Hartzell Road; thence south on the
centerline of Hartzell Road to the intersection with the centerline of State
Road 930; thence westerly on the centerline of State Road 930 to the
intersection with the centerline of Brookwood Drive; thence south on the
centerline of Brookwood Drive to the intersection with the south property line
of 1161 Brookwood Drive (PIN 021310483012000041) extended west to the
centerline of Brookwood Drive; thence east on and along the south line of 1161
Brookwood Drive and the South line of 1160 Melbourne Drive (PIN 021311355015-
000041) extended east to the intersection with the centerline of Melbourne
Drive; thence southerly on the centerline of Melbourne Drive to the
intersection with the centerline of Sherbrook Drive; thence southerly on the
centerline of Sherbrook Drive to the intersection with the centerline of
Bedford Drive; thence southeasterly on the centerline of Bedford Drive to the
intersection with the centerline of Shannon Drive; thence southerly on the
centerline of Shannon Drive to the intersection with the centerline of Sara
Drive; thence east on the centerline of Sara Drive to the intersection with the
centerline of Woodmere Drive; thence south on the centerline of Woodmere Drive
to the intersection with the New Haven corporation line; thence west,
southerly, westerly, northerly and easterly, meandering on and along the New
Haven corporation line to the intersection with the north right-of-way of the
northernmost rail line of the Norfolk Southern Railroad, also being the current
New Haven corporation line and the centerline of Estella Avenue, said point
being 128 feet +/- north of Old Maumee Road and also being the point of
beginning.
(Prior Code, § 30.30) (Ord. G-90-23, passed 10-25-1990; Ord. G-93-l, passed 2-
9-1993; Ord. X-93-13, passed 12-14-1993; Ord. X-94-4, passed 4-12-1994; Ord. X-
94-5, passed 4-8-1994; Ord. X-95-1, passed 1-24-1995; Ord. X-97-1, passed 1-28-
1997; Ord. X-97-22, passed 11-25-1997; Ord. X-98-5, passed 7-14-1998; Ord. X-
98-12, passed 10-13-1998; Ord. G-02-18, passed 10-22-2002; Ord. G-12-12, passed
10-3-2012; Ord. G-22-20, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 30.41 TWO AT-LARGE DISTRICTS.
   The entire area contained within the corporate boundaries of the city shall
constitute two councilmanic districts for at-large purposes as provided in I.C.
36-4-6-5.
(Prior Code, § 30.31) (Ord. 728, passed 9-16-1963; Ord. G-14-73, passed 11-13-
1973; Ord. G-81-24, passed 12-8-1981; Ord. G-90-23, passed 10-25-1990; Ord. G-
93-1, passed 2-9-1993)
§ 30.42 VOTING.
   Each voter of the city may vote for two candidates for at-large membership
and one candidate from the district in which the voter resides. The two at-
large candidates receiving the most votes from the whole city and the district
candidates receiving the most votes from their respective districts are elected
to the Common Council of the city.
(Prior Code, § 30.32) (Ord. G-90-23, passed 10-25-1990; Ord. G-93-1, passed 2-
9-1993)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments
   
31.01   Department of Economic Development
   
31.02   Police Reserve
   
31.03   Building Department
   
31.04   Department of Redevelopment
Boards and Commissions
   
31.15   Department of Parks and Recreation and Board of Parks and Recreation
   
31.16   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
31.17   Redevelopment Commission
   
31.18   Police Merit Board
   
31.19   New Haven-Adams Township Firefighters Board
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.01 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Creation of Department. A new department to be known and designated as
the “New Haven Department of Economic Development” is created.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
   (B)   Commission members.
      (1)   The Department of Economic Development shall be under the control
of a commission of five members to be known as the “New Haven Economic
Development Commission”, and this Commission shall be constituted and appointed
and have the powers and duties provided by law.
      (2)   The five Commission members shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   The Mayor shall nominate three members;
         (b)   The Common Council shall nominate one member; and
         (c)   The County Council shall nominate one member. All members shall
be appointed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
(Ord. G-2-77, passed 1-31-1977; Ord. G-84-23, passed 10-9-1984)
§ 31.02 POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the city establishes the
Police Reserve.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)
   (B)   Powers. The city’s Police Reserve, hereinafter referred to as
“Reserves”, shall be appointed by the city’s Chief of Police, but shall not be
members of the regular police force. The Reserves shall have all of the powers
of regular members, except as determined by internal rules which may be
promulgated by the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 31.11)
   (C)   Uniforms.
      (1)   Reserves shall provide their own firearms, and shall be instructed
by the firearms instructor of the city’s Police Department.
      (2)   Pursuant to state law, the Reserve uniform must be easily
distinguishable from that of the regular police officer, and accordingly shall
be as follows:
         (a)   Shirt: French blue with navy trim;
         (b)   Trousers: French blue with navy striping; and
         (c)   Badge: same star design as regular police officer.
(Prior Code, § 31.12)
   (D)   Compensation. Reserves shall serve at no compensation, but may request
contribution from the city to defray uniform costs. The Common Council, in its
discretion, may reimburse each Reserve officer for this expense. The city shall
be responsible for providing a badge to each reserve officer.
(Prior Code, § 31.13)
   (E)   Ranks.
      (1)   The following ranks are established for the Reserve unit:
         (a)   Captain;
         (b)   Lieutenant;
         (c)   Sergeant; and
         (d)   Officer.
      (2)   The Chief of the city’s Police Department shall have all rights to
make the above appointments and those appointments shall serve at his or her
discretion and pleasure.
(Prior Code, § 31.14)
(Ord. G-84-8, passed 2-14-1984)
§ 31.03 BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
    For provisions concerning the county’s Building Department as Building
Department of the city, see the Unified Development Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.25)
§ 31.04 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-3, the Council hereby establishes the city’s
Department of Redevelopment (the “Department”), for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted by law. The
Department will be controlled by a board of five members to be known as the
city’s Redevelopment Commission (the “Redevelopment Commission”), two of whom
shall be appointed by the Council and three of whom shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.31) (Ord. G-03-5, passed 3-25-2003)
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 31.15 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION AND BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Creation of Department. It is deemed necessary to create and establish
a Department of Parks and Recreation, to be governed by the city’s Park and
Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
   (B)   Number of members. The city’s Park and Recreation Board shall be
comprised of:
      (1)   Four members to be appointed by the Mayor; and
      (2)   One member to be appointed by the Judge of the county’s Circuit
Court.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
   (C)   Reestablishment in accordance with new state law.
      (1)   The Department of Parks and Recreation is reaffirmed and
reestablished and shall perform the administrative function and have all
duties, powers and authority assigned by the laws of the state not limited to,
but to include, the powers and duties set forth under I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
      (2)   The appointment of each member of the city’s Park and Recreation
Board is reaffirmed.
      (3)   The terms of office of each of the members of the Department of
Parks and Recreation is reaffirmed.
      (4)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall have all of the powers
and duties set forth at I.C. 36-10-3 et seq. and those powers and duties are to
be exercised in accordance therewith.
      (5)   The special non-reverting capital fund of the Department of Parks
and Recreation is reaffirmed and reestablished.
      (6)   The extension of the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and
Recreation to the unincorporated area of Adams Township of Allen County,
Indiana, as provided in Ord. 633, for park and recreational purposes and
services is reaffirmed.
      (7)   All functions, powers and authorities not limited to, but to
include, its budget, funds, operations, employment of personnel, purchase and
leasing of real and personal property and all other matters pertaining to the
parks and recreational functions of the Department of Parks and Recreation are
reestablished and/or affirmed.
      (8)   Upon the recommendation of the Mayor, the Common Council does adopt
this section to reestablish and reaffirm the Department of Parks and Recreation
so that the necessary functions and purposes of the Department can be rendered
efficiently and uninterruptedly to fulfill the needs of the citizens of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 34.03)
   (D)   Imposition of fees.
      (1)   The city’s Park and Recreation Board may determine and impose such
service charges and user fees as it, from time to time, determines to be
reasonable and just.
      (2)   The city’s Department of Parks and Recreation shall maintain a list
of all user charges and service fees in effect, which shall be available upon
request.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
(Ord. 631, passed 11-10-1955; Ord. G-82-10, passed 6-8-1982; Ord. G-12-9,
passed 5-7-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes a municipality to establish either a non-reverting operating fund
or a non-reverting capital fund, see I.C. 36-10-3-22(b)
§ 31.16 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
    For provisions governing the Board of Zoning Appeals, see the Unified
Development Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 34.30)
§ 31.17 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation of Commission. There is created the “New Haven Redevelopment
Commission” to act with the duties and responsibilities described in I.C. 37-1-
14-1, and following as the same is now written and is from time to time
amended.
(Prior Code, § 34.60)
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The city’s Redevelopment Commission shall be controlled by five
members, each to serve for one year from the first day of January following his
or her appointment or until replaced by a duly appointed and qualified member.
      (2)   Three of the members shall be appointed by the Mayor and two of the
members shall be appointed by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 34.61)
   (C)   Official bond. The city’s is duly authorized to purchase a blanket
position bond covering all members of the city’s Redevelopment Commission.
(Prior Code, § 34.62)
(Ord. G-06-11, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 31.18 POLICE MERIT BOARD.
   (A)   Board membership and qualifications.
      (1)   Consistency. The Police Merit Board (hereafter referred to as
“Board”) shall consist of three members:
         (a)   One shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city;
         (b)   One shall be appointed by a majority vote of all full-time
police officers; and
         (c)   One shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Common Council
of the city by their normal power of ordinance procedures.
      (2)   Initial appointments. For the initial appointments to the Board,
the following schedule shall be used:
         (a)   The Mayor shall appoint one member for three years;
         (b)   The police officers shall appoint one member for two years; and
         (c)   The Common Council shall appoint one member for one year.
      (3)   Removal. A Board member serves at the pleasure of the appointing
authority and may be removed at any time.
      (4)   Tenure. After the initial appointment in division (A)(2) above, the
Board member shall serve for a period of three years.
      (5)   Vacancies. A vacancy on the Board shall be filled within 30 days by
the appointing authority. This selection is for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
      (6)   Qualifications.
         (a)   All members of the Board must be residents of the city;
         (b)   No member may be a police officer of the city, an elected
official of the city or an employee of the city.
         (c)   Each member must be at least 21 years of age.
      (7)   Officers. The Board will elect a President, who shall preside at
all meetings under Robert’s Rules of Order, and a Secretary, who shall record
all proceedings.
      (8)   Compensation. Each member of the Board shall receive a per diem
compensation for each day of service in the amount fixed by the Common Council
at its annual budget meeting.
(Prior Code, § 38.01)
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   The Board will establish rules and regulations to carry on its
function as it sees fit, subject to those specifically required or limited by
this ordinance.
      (2)   The Board shall meet at least once every six months and, in
addition, whenever necessary to fulfill its obligations. The President of the
Board may call for such meetings at his or her discretion.
      (3)   Board action shall be limited to issues of the hiring dismissal,
promoting from one rank to the next, and demoting from one rank to the next of
sworn full-time officers within the Police Department, except upper level
policymaking positions shall be appointed by the Mayor, and promotion and
demotion to and from the rank of detective shall be made by the Chief.
         (a)   With respect to candidates to become new hires within the
Department, applications for new candidates may be submitted to the Board for
review or candidates may also be recommended by the Police Chief to the Board
for review.
         (b)   UPPER LEVEL POLICYMAKING POSITIONS shall mean the Chief  of
Police and the next rank and pay grade immediately below Chief.
      (4)   (a)   Officers of the Police Department shall be promoted from one
rank to the next higher rank and shall hold that rank for a period of at least
two years before being promoted to the next rank.
         (b)   Qualifications for rank within the Police Department shall be
based upon the following point system:
            1.   Interview: 20%;
            2.   Seniority: 10%;
            3.   Written examination: 40%; and
            4.   Performance record: 30%.
         (c)   New officers shall attain at least 24 months seniority before
being considered for promotion.
         (d)   The Chief of the Police Department will submit job
classifications, and a manning docket listing the organizational structure of,
and ranks within, the Department to the Common Council in June for the
following year. The Council must approve these before they take effect. Once
approved, the Chief may make emergency changes for a period not to exceed 30
days, and shall notify the Council of each change at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting.
         (e)   The Chief of the Police Department shall return to his or her
prior rank after completing tenure as Chief.
      (5)   (a)   Officers will be demoted only one rank at a time;
         (b)   Specific charges shall be brought against the officer by the
Chief;
         (c)   At the request of the demoted officer, a hearing will be
conducted pursuant to division (B)(7) below; and
         (d)   All officers shall have right to counsel during the hearing.
      (6)   (a)   Suspensions (with, or without pay) of five days or less shall
be made by the Chief and shall not be governed by the Board.
         (b)   Suspensions exceeding five days, but less than one month, shall
be decided by the Board.
         (c)   There shall not be suspensions in excess of one month. Instead,
discipline in excess of one month shall result in dismissal of the officer.
         (d)   Specific charges shall be brought against an officer by the
Chief.
         (e)   At the request of the demoted officer, a hearing will be
conducted pursuant to division (B)(7) below.
         (f)   All accused officers shall have the right to be represented at
each hearing by the counsel of their choice.
         (g)   Every accused officer shall have the right to appeal the Chief’s
decision to the Board, and the Board’s decision to the appropriate Court of
jurisdiction.
      (7)   For any hearing described in divisions (B)(5) and (B)(6) above, the
following procedures will apply.
         (a)   Written notice of the hearing shall be served upon the accused
member in person or by a copy left at the member’s last and usual place of
residence at least 14 days before the date set for the hearing. The notice must
state:
            1.   The time and place of the hearing;
            2.   The charges against the member;
            3.   The specific conduct that comprises the charges;
            4.   The member is entitled to be represented by counsel or another
representative of the member’s choice;
            5.   The member is entitled to call and cross-examine witnesses;
            6.   The member is entitled to require the production of evidence;
and
            7.   The member is entitled to have subpoenas issued, served and
executed.
         (b)   If a hearing is required, the parties may, by agreement,
designate a hearing officer who is qualified by education, training or
experience. If the parties cannot agree on a hearing officer, the Board may
hold the hearing or select the hearing officer. The designated hearing officer
must be qualified by education, training or experience to conduct such a
hearing. The hearing officer may not hold an upper level policymaking position.
The hearing conducted under this division (B)(7)(b) shall be held within 30
days after it is requested by the Member.
         (c)   The Board may:
            1.   Compel the attendance of witnesses by issuing subpoenas;
            2.   Examine witnesses under oath; and
            3.   Order the production of books, papers and other evidence by
issuing subpoenas.
         (d)   If a witness refuses to appear at a hearing of the Board after
having received written notice requiring the witness’s attendance, or refuses
to produce evidence that the Board requests by written notice, the Board may
file an affidavit in the Circuit Court of the county setting forth the facts of
the refusal as provided in I.C. 36-8-3.5-17(f).
         (e)   A decision to discipline an officer may be made only if the
preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing indicates such a course
of action.
         (f)   An officer who is aggrieved by the decision of a person or board
designated to conduct a disciplinary hearing under division (B)(7)(c) above may
appeal to the Board within ten days of the decision. The Board shall on appeal
review the record and either affirm, modify or reverse the decision on the
basis of the record and such oral or written testimony that the Board
determines, including additional or newly discovered evidence.
         (g)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the proceedings in
cases of suspension, demotion or dismissal. The Board shall give a free copy of
the transcript to the officer upon request if an appeal is filed.
      (8)   An officer who is aggrieved by a decision of the Board to suspend
the officer for a period greater than ten calendar days, demote the officer or
dismiss the officer may seek judicial review of any such decision as provided
in I.C. 36-8-3.5-18, subject to the time limitations and procedural
requirements set forth in said statute.
      (9)   (a)   The Board shall establish rules for candidates desiring
employment as full-time members of the Department. The Board shall adopt an
eligibility list consistent with I.C. 36-8-3.5-13, as amended.
         (b)   The eligibility list will remain valid for two years from the
date it is adopted, or until it is exhausted, whichever period is the shortest.
At any time, the Board, for good cause, may determine the existing eligibility
list should be voided and a new list created.
         (c)   The Board shall have the authority to hire “lateral transfer
applicants” without regard to the eligibility list maintained for police
officer applicants. A LATERAL TRANSFER APPLICANT is defined as an applicant
that has been certified by the state’s Law Enforcement Academy certification.
      (10)   The Board may request the City Attorney to appoint an independent
legal advisor, and shall have the power to retain administrative support as it
sees fit on a case-by-case basis.
(Prior Code, § 38.02)
   (C)   Other benefits. The Board of Works and Safety, and the Common Council,
shall govern other benefits not regulated by this section. These may include,
but not be limited to, vacations, sick pay, shift preference and others.
(Prior Code, § 38.03)
(Ord. G-89-17, passed 11-14-1989; Ord. G-96-10, passed 10-8-1996; Ord. G-05-02,
passed 3-22-2005; Ord. G-13-08, passed 4-9-2013; Ord. G-15-05, passed 9-8-2015;
Ord. G-24-05, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 31.19 NEW HAVEN-ADAMS TOWNSHIP FIREFIGHTERS PENSION BOARD.
   The City of New Haven hereby establishes the New Haven-Adams Township
Firefighters Pension Board which shall be governed by bylaws adopted by the
Board at its first meeting.
(Res. R-20-41, passed 12-1-2020)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
City Officials
   
32.01   Executive Office Secretary
   
32.02   City Zoning Administrator
   32.03   Deputy Mayor
Salaries and Benefits
   
32.15   Elected officials
   
32.16   Other city employees
   
32.17   [Reserved]
   
32.18   Bonds
Personnel Policies
   
32.30   Clothing allowance to police and maintenance employees
   
32.31   Holidays
   
32.32   Paid time off
   
32.33   Funeral leave
   
32.34   (Reserved)
   
32.35   Payment of police officers for longevity of service
   
32.36   Retirement of employees
   
32.37   (Reserved)
   
32.38   Family or medical leave
   
32.39   Military leave
   
32.40   Jury duty
   
32.41   Leave of absence
   
32.42   Reimbursement for official use of a private motor vehicle
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 32.01 EXECUTIVE OFFICE SECRETARY.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Executive Office
Secretary.
   (B)   The Executive Office Secretary shall serve as the primary secretary of
the City Executive.
   (C)   The Executive Office Secretary shall perform such tasks as assigned by
the City Executive.
   (D)   In addition to the duties assigned by the City Executive, the
Executive Office Secretary shall provide office assistance to other appointed
or elected city officials as directed by the Mayor and the members of the
Common Council in the conduct of city business.
   (E)   The Executive Office Secretary shall be appointed by the City
Executive and shall serve at his or her pleasure.
   (F)   The Executive Office Secretary shall receive compensation based on an
hourly wage, which wage shall be paid in bi-weekly payments.
   (G)   The Executive Office Secretary shall receive other employment benefits
commonly provided for full-time employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. G-90-1, passed 2-13-1990)
§ 32.02 CITY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of city’s Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   The city’s Zoning Administrator shall be the primary assistant to the
Board of Zoning Appeals and the city’s Plan Commission and shall be responsible
for the day-to-day conduct of business coming within the jurisdiction of the
city’s Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   The city’s Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the City
Executive and shall serve at his or her pleasure.
   (D)   The city’s Zoning Administrator shall receive an annual salary, which
salary shall be paid in bi-weekly installments.
   (E)   The city’s Zoning Administrator shall receive other employment
benefits commonly provided for full-time employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. G-88-3, passed 1-12-1988)
§ 32.03 DEPUTY MAYOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Deputy Mayor.
   (B)   The Deputy Mayor may exercise all of the powers granted to the Mayor
as may be delegated by the Mayor and may exercise all of the powers granted to
the Mayor when the Mayor is unavailable to exercise his or her duties.
   (C)   The Deputy Mayor position shall be held by a current employee, elected
official or officer of the City of New Haven.
   (D)   The Deputy Mayor shall be paid an hourly wage equal to the current
prevailing minimum wage as set by the federal government.
   (E)   The Deputy Mayor shall receive all other employment benefits commonly
provided for a full-time employee of the City of New Haven; however, if the
Deputy Mayor is a current employee of the City of New Haven, the employee shall
receive benefits for only one position.
(Ord. G-20-07, passed 4-7-2020)
ALARIES AND BENEFITS
§ 32.15 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The compensation is fixed on an annual basis. It may not be changed in
the year for which it is fixed, nor may it be reduced below the amount fixed
for the previous year.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
   (B)   All salaries and compensation provided for herein shall be for the
calendar year 2025 and shall be paid bi-weekly or monthly and for such time or
times only as said appointive officers, employees, deputies, assistants and
departmental and institution heads are actually in service, except for the
services performed by the City Attorney, who shall be paid such additional
compensation for extra and additional services as and when performed as may be
hereafter agreed upon by the Mayor and approved by the Common Council.
(Ord. A-16-05, passed 10-11-2016; Ord. A-17-08, passed 10-24-2017; Ord. A-19-
18, passed 10-22-2019; Ord. A-24-03, passed 2-20-2024; Ord. A-24-10, passed - -
2024; Ord. A-24-15, passed 9-17-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Establishes the requirements for the compensation of elected officials of
second and third class cities, see I.C. 36-4-7-2
§ 32.16 OTHER CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Depending upon an employee’s job description, salaries are set either
by the Mayor or Clerk-Treasurer subject to a maximum established by the Common
Council. Salaries must be fixed by November 1 of each year for the ensuing
budget year.
   (B)   Compensation is set by an ordinance adopted by the Common Council
before November 1 of each year for the ensuing budget year. Should the Council
not adopt such an ordinance, the compensation of police and fire employees must
be set by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
   (C)   All salaries and compensation provided for herein shall be for the
calendar year 2025 and shall be paid bi-weekly or monthly and for such time or
times only as said appointive officers, employees, deputies, assistants and
departmental and institution heads are actually in service, except for the
services performed by the City Attorney, who shall be paid such additional
compensation for extra and additional services as and when performed as may be
hereafter agreed upon by the Mayor and approved by the Common Council.
(Ord. A-16-05, passed 10-11-2016; Ord. A-24-03, passed 2-20-2024; Ord. A-24-10,
passed - -2024; Ord. A-24-15, passed 9-17-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Establishes requirements for the compensation of employees, except police
and fire employees, of second and third class cities, see I.C. 36-4-7-2
   Establishes requirements for the compensation of police and fire employees,
see I.C. 36-8-3-3
§ 32.17 [RESERVED].
§ 32.18 BONDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall procure individual bonds to
secure the faithful performance of the following city officials in the
following amounts:
      (1)   Clerk-Treasurer: in an amount equal to $30,000 for each $1,000,000
of receipts during the last complete fiscal year before the purchase of the
bond, not to exceed $300,000;
      (2)   Judge of the City Court: $15,000;
      (3)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner: $15,000;
      (4)   Court Clerk: $15,000;
      (5)   Police Pension Commissioner: $15,000; and
      (6)   Superintendent of Utilities: $10,000.
   (B)   Additionally, the city will obtain a crime insurance policy endorsed
to include faithful performance and to cover the faithful performance of all
other employees with liability limits of at least $5,000 per occurrence.
(Ord. G-15-11, passed 12-22-2015)
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 32.30 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE TO POLICE AND MAINTENANCE EMPLOYEES.
   From and after the first day of January, 2025, the following clothing
allowances will be paid directly to the employee. The Utility Department will
receive $1,000 paid one-half on April 1 and one-half on September 1. The police
officers will receive $1,200 paid one-half on June 1 and one-half on December
1. The police dispatchers will receive $450 paid one-half on June 1 and one-
half on December 1. Engineering employees will receive $913 paid one-half on
April 1 and one-half on September 1.
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Ord. A-90-8, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. G-96-7, passed 8-13-
1996; Ord. G-97-19, passed 10-28-1997; Ord. A-07-06, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. A-
16-05, passed 10-11-2016; Ord. A-17-08, passed 10-24-2017; Ord. A-19-18, passed
10-22-19; Ord. A-24-03, passed 2-20-2024; Ord. A-24-10, passed - -2024; Ord. A-
24-15, passed 9-17-2024)
§ 32.31 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time city employees shall be entitled to pay for approved
holidays.
   (B)   Approved holidays:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
      (3)   President’s Day;
      (4)   Good Friday;
      (5)   Memorial Day;
      (6)   Juneteenth;
      (7)   Independence Day;
      (8)   Labor Day;
      (9)   Columbus Day;
      (10)   Veteran’s Day;
      (11)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (12)   Friday after Thanksgiving;
      (13)   Christmas Day; and
      (14)   Any other working days the Mayor, at his or her discretion,
designates as holidays.
   (C)   In the event a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall
be the observed holiday. In the event a holiday falls on a Sunday, the
following Monday shall be the observed holiday.
   (D)   In order to be eligible for holiday pay, an employee shall work the
entire last scheduled working day before and all of the next scheduled working
day after said holiday, unless the employee is on leave, including vacation,
sick leave, funeral leave, personal leave or is using compensatory time. This
is done so as not to affect the efficiency of the department.
(Prior Code, § 32.11) (Ord. G-98-11, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-
10-2009; Ord. G-21-29, passed 1-4-2022)
§ 32.32 PAID TIME OFF.
   (A)   Paid time off for civilian employees.
      (1)   PTO eligibility. Regular full-time, civilian employees are eligible
for paid time off (“PTO”) in accordance with the policy provided for in this
section.
      (2)   PTO accrual. Eligible employees start accruing PTO time at the
beginning of employment. The PTO accrual amount is based on years of service.
Following the first calendar year of employment, PTO time is allotted on
January 1 of each year in accordance with the following schedule:
Length of Service Accrued PTO Amounts
Length of Service                          Accrued PTO Amounts
Hire date: January 1 - June 30 (1st year)  20 days/160 hours
Hire date: July 1 - December 31 (1st year) 10 days/80 hours
January 1 - (2nd year)                     25 days/200 hours
January 1 - (3rd year - 6th year)          25.5 days/204 hours
January 1 - (7th year)                     26 days/208 hours
January 1 - (8th year)                     27 days/216 hours
January 1 - (9th year)                     28 days/224 hours
January 1 - (10th year)                    29 days/232 hours
January 1 - (11th year)                    30 days/240 hours
January 1 - (12th year)                    31 days/248 hours
January 1 - (13th year)                    32 days/256 hours
January 1 - (14th year)                    33 days/264 hours
January 1 - (15th year)                    34 days/272 hours
January 1 - (16th year)                    35 days/280 hours
January 1 - (17th year)                    36 days/288 hours
January 1 - (18th year)                    37 days/296 hours
January 1 - (19th year)                    38 days/304 hours
January 1 - (20th year)                    39 days/312 hours
January 1 - (21st year and above)          40 days/320 hours
 
      (3)   Civilian PTO usage. PTO is available to be used after 90 days of
employment. Employees may not use PTO time until after completion of their
initial 90 days of employment. PTO time may be used for a variety of reasons,
including personal days, vacation, and personal illness. PTO time will be paid
at the employee’s regular rate of pay earned at the time the PTO is used,
excluding any amounts earned for overtime, bonuses, incentives, and the like.
Employees must schedule PTO in advance with their supervisor or department
head, unless using PTO for unexpected illness. In general, employees should
seek approval for planned absences at least 30 days in advance. Employees may
not use more than ten PTO days at one time without approval from an elected
official. PTO requests will be granted to the extent feasible, depending on
staffing and business needs.
      (4)   Reserve banks.
         (a)   Beginning January 1, 2022, employees will be provided a reserve
bank for certain unused PTO time to be used only in accordance with this PTO
policy. Reserve bank time may be used only during approved FMLA leave or during
an approved leave of absence. Usage of reserve bank time for a non-FMLA reason
must be approved by a department head and Human Resources.
         (b)   At the end of each calendar year beginning in 2022. up to 120
hours of unused PTO time may be converted into the reserve bank. The reserve
bank has a maximum balance of480 hours. At no time may the reserve bank contain
more than 480 hours.
      (5)   No rollover. To the extent the employee has unused PTO time that
cannot be converted to the reserve bank, any remaining, unused PTO time will be
forfeited. Moreover, once the reserve bank reaches 480 hours, any unused PTO
time not converted will be forfeited. Unused PTO time does not carryover from
year to year, and any PTO time not used during the calendar year or converted
to the reserve bank will be forfeited. No payouts will be provided for unused
PTO time at the end of the year.
      (6)   Separation of employment.
         (a)   Involuntary termination. Employees who are involuntarily
terminated from employment for any reason are not eligible for and will not
receive a payout for any unused PTO time or reserve bank time. Any unused PTO
time or reserve bank time existing at the time of termination will be
forfeited.
         (b)   Voluntary termination. Employees who voluntarily resign or are
voluntarily terminated from employment in good standing will receive a pay out
of PTO time in accordance with the schedule below. Any unused PTO time in
excess of the below percentages will not be paid out and will be forfeited.
Employees with ten years or more of service at the time of their voluntary
termination are also eligible to receive 10% of their unused reserve bank time
in existence as of the date of separation. Employees with less than ten years
of service at the time of separation are not eligible for a payout of reserve
bank time, and any reserve bank time remaining at separation will be forfeited.
 
QUARTER   DATE OF LAST DAY WORKED PERCENT OF ACCRUED, UNUSED PTO PAID OUT
Quarter 1 January 1 - March 31    25%
Quarter 2 April 1 - June 30       50%
Quarter 3 July 1 - September 30   75%
Quarter 4 October 1 - December 31 100%
 
      (7)   Borrowed leave. PTO time may not be taken if an employee does not
have sufficient accrued PTO time at the time of usage. PTO time may not be
borrowed in advance from subsequent years. Additionally, employees may not
share or borrow PTO time with other employees.
   (B)   Paid time off for the Police Department.
      (1)   Policy.
         (a)   It shall be the policy of the Police Department to grant
employees their earned paid time off within the guideline as established by
this section. Earned paid time off will be determined by years of service by
each individual employee and will include the holidays that are determined by
the Mayor prior to the beginning of the year.
         (b)   Employees must schedule PTO in advance with their supervisor or
Chief of Police, unless using PTO for unexpected illness.
         (c)   Patrol officers required to work on certain holidays, as listed
below, will be paid time and a half for that shift. The holiday where the
officer is paid time and a half will be on the shift that starts on that
particular holiday. The time and a half pay for working the below listed
holidays will be for patrol officers only and will not include administration,
support personnel or detectives.
         (d)   The following holidays will be honored for receiving time and a
half pay. Additionally, the holidays listed below will be honored on the actual
holiday and may not coincide with the dates listed on the City of New Haven
Holiday Schedule.
            1.   New Year’s Day (January 1).
            2.   Memorial Day (varies).
            3.   Independence Day (July 4).
            4.   Labor Day (varies).
            5.   Thanksgiving Day (varies).
            6.   Christmas Day (December 25).
      (2)   Procedures.
         (a)   Seniority paid time off.
            1.   Seniority paid time off will apply to requested days within
the time period of April 1 through January 1 of the following year.
            2.   Requests for days within the time period of January 2 through
March 31 will be granted on a first come first served basis with requests
submitted no more than six months in advance. Seniority for this time period
will only be considered when duplicate requests are received on the same day.
            3.   On or about January 15 of each calendar year, the shift
sergeant will begin the process of scheduling seniority paid time off requests.
            4.   The process will begin with the most senior patrol officer
submitting his or her paid time off request and continue, based on department
seniority, until all officers have had the opportunity to make their request.
Shift sergeants discretion as to timeline.
            5.   Individual officers will have the opportunity to view the
schedule for available days prior to actually submitting their request.
            6.   Officers will only be able to schedule up to 75% of their paid
time off during the seniority bid.
            7.   Requests must be for full eight-hour shifts and cannot exceed
two full consecutive rotations. Requests must reflect the officer returning for
a full four-day rotation after scheduling two full rotations off.
            8.   Officers will not be allowed to make changes to their request
(add or delete days) until the process has been completed.
            9.   The process has been completed when the last officer for that
shift has made his or her request and it has been scheduled.
            10.   Only one officer will be allowed off per shift using
scheduled paid time off.
         (b)   Non-seniority paid time off.
            1.   Once the seniority paid time off process has been completed,
officers will have the opportunity to schedule any paid time off they have
earned, based on availability, on a first come first served basis.
            2.   These requests will not be subject to seniority unless
duplicate requests are submitted on the same day.
         (c)   Sick call in.
            1.   PTO will be used for personal illness.
            2.   Employees calling in sick shall contact New Haven Police
Communications reporting the absence. New Haven Communications will then
transfer the caller to the voicemail box of the Chief of Police. New Haven
Communications shall then notify command on-call of the absence.
            3.   An employee who is off due to sick call in is in-eligible to
work any off-duty employment for 24 hours following the call in.
            4.   An employee who is off due to sick call in is ineligible to
utilize a Police Department take home vehicle for 24 hours following the call
in.
(Ord. G-98-11, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. A-16-05,
passed 10-11-2016; Ord. A-17-08, passed 10-24-2017; Ord. A-19-18, passed 10-22-
2019; Ord. G-21-29, passed 1-4-2022)
§ 32.33 FUNERAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Paid funeral leave. This policy applies to all full-time city
employees. The city recognizes that in the event of a death in the immediate
family, much planning and expense is involved and employees need time to
complete arrangements.
      (1)   Employees shall be allowed three days off with pay for funerals and
necessary arrangements of the affairs of the deceased for the employee’s
father, mother, husband, wife, child(ren), grandchild(ren), grandparents,
brother or sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in- law,
step-father, step-mother, step-child(ren), step- brother and step-sister.
      (2)   In the event of a death of any other relative or close friend, the
personal day privilege should be utilized.
   (B)   Unpaid funeral leave. Additional unpaid funeral leave will be at the
discretion of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.13) (Ord. G-98-11, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-
10-2009)
§ 32.34 [RESERVED].
§ 32.35 PAYMENT OF POLICE OFFICERS FOR LONGEVITY OF SERVICE.
    That all full-time employees shall receive an additional payment of money
upon the following conditions:
   (A)   All full time employees upon completion of five through nine years of
continuous service as a member of the New Haven Police Department, the sum of
$400; upon completion of ten through 14 years, the sum of $800; upon the
completion of 15 through 19 years, the sum of $1200; upon the completion of 20
years and every year thereafter, the sum of $1600.
   (B)   All full-time police officers who are employed on the New Haven Police
Department as of 9-12-2019 and who are still employed on the New Haven Police
Department as of 6-30-2020 will receive a $1,000 incentive in their paycheck in
July 2020.
(Prior Code, § 32.15) (Ord. G-10-75, passed 7-29-1975; Ord. A-97-14, passed 7-
28-1997; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. A-17-08, passed 10-24-2017; Ord.
A-19-18, passed 10-22-2019)
§ 32.36 RETIREMENT OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Common Council elects coverage under the Old-Age and Survivors
Insurance as provided by I.C. 5-10.1-1-1 through 5-10.1-7-2 as amended, and as
they may be amended or implemented by regulations of the state agency.
   (B)   All positions and employees of the city are to be covered by I.C. 5-
10.1-1-1 through 5-10.1-7-2, as amended, excepting the following:
      (1)   All members of the city’s Police Department;
      (2)   All members of the city’s Fire Department;
      (3)   The consultant to the city’s Planning and Zoning Commission and/or
the Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (4)   The City Engineer, the compensation for which is on a fee basis;
and
      (5)   The Attorneys and any Associate City Attorneys, the compensation
for which is on a fee basis.
   (C)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Federal Social
Security Act and amendments, the agreement entered into between the state
agency with the approval of the Governor and the Social Security Administrator
is made an integral part of this section.
   (D)   This section is, in turn, a part of the federal agreement between the
political subdivision and the state agency, and of the agreement or
modification of the agreement between the state and the Social Security
Administrator.
   (E)   The Common Council agrees that it will fully perform the obligation of
a political subdivision under the federal-state agreement and I.C. 5-10.1-1-
1 through 5-10.1-7-2 as amended, and as they may be amended or implemented by
regulations of the state agency.
(Prior Code, § 32.16)
   (F)   The city wishes to contribute to the full-time employees $1,900 for
those who are enrolled in the HSA health plan to help with medical expenses.
The city will forward the contribution to the employee’s HSA accounts. These
contributions are quarterly and start the first full month of employment at
$158.34 a month.
(Ord. G-10-72, passed 7-11-1972; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. A-16-05,
passed 10-11-2016; Ord. A-17-08, passed 10-24-2017)
§ 32.37 [RESERVED].
§ 32.38 FAMILY OR MEDICAL LEAVE.
   (A)   General. As provided by the 1993 Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA),
being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq., all eligible employees shall be entitled to
take up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave during any 12-month period
for specified family and medical reasons.
   (B)   Covered family and medical reasons. An eligible employee shall be
entitled to 12 weeks of unpaid leave during a 12-month period for one or more
of the following reasons:
      (1)   The birth or placement of a child for adoption or foster care;
      (2)   To care for an immediate family member (spouse, child or parent)
with a serious health condition; or
      (3)   To take medical leave when the employee is unable to work because
of a serious health condition.
   (C)   Serious health conditions. A SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION shall be defined
as an illness of a serious and long-term nature resulting in recurring or
lengthy absences. Treatment of such an illness would occur in an inpatient
situation at a hospital, hospice or residential medical care facility or would
consist of continuing care provided by a licensed health care provider.
   (D)   Questions. An employee may take leave if a serious health condition
makes the employee unable to perform functions of his or her position.
Employees with questions about whether specific illnesses are covered should
meet with their respective department head, as well as a licensed physician.
   (E)   Employee eligibility. An employee shall be entitled to family leave
when he or she meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The employee has worked for at least 12 months for the city. The 12
months need not have been consecutive. (If the employee was on the payroll for
part of a week, the city will count the entire week. The city considers 52
weeks to be equal to 12 months.)
      (2)   The employee has to have worked for the city for at least 1,250
hours over the 12 months before the leave would begin.
      (3)   When both spouses are employed by the city, they are jointly
entitled to a combined total of 12 work weeks of family leave for the birth or
placement of a child for adoption or foster care and to care for a parent who
has a serious health condition.
(Prior Code, § 32.18) (Ord. G-98-11, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-
10-2009)
§ 32.39 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   Active duty.
      (1)   Employees who leave city employment for the Armed Forces are
entitled to reinstatement without a break in service if:
         (a)   They have a certificate showing satisfactory completion of their
military service; or
         (b)   They report back to the city immediately upon release from
military service.
      (2)   Employees covered under this provision will be offered the same or
an alternate job of equal seniority, status and pay. No benefits will accrue
while on this type of leave.
   (B)   Reserves and National Guard. Any employee who is a member of the
Indiana National Guard or a reserve member of the Armed Forces of the United
States will:
      (1)   Receive his or her normal straight time pay for actual work days
missed, not to exceed 15 days annually, if the leave is taken on city time; and
      (2)   Be entitled to a temporary leave of absence without loss of time.
Notification papers and fulfillment papers must be given to the department
head.
(Prior Code, § 32.19) (Ord. G-98-11, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-
10-2009)
§ 32.40 JURY DUTY.
   (A)   An employee required to serve on a jury, or who is subpoenaed to
appear as a witness in a court of law, will be paid the difference between his
or her regular straight time pay and that paid as a juror for each of his or
her scheduled days of work on which he or she is required to serve on the jury
or appear as a witness, as the case may be.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of each employee to present to the
Clerk-Treasurer a copy of the court summons or subpoena and a certificate from
the Clerk of the Court showing the days served as a juror or a witness and the
amount paid for the jury service.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. G-98-11, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-
10-2009)
§ 32.41 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Duration. Leave of absence must be requested in writing and may be
granted to employees with the written approval of the Mayor. Leave of absence
may be granted for a period of up to six months and will be unpaid.
   (B)   Cessation of benefits. During a leave of absence, the employee may
retain his or her group insurance policy, but it will be the responsibility of
the employee to pay the full group rate after 90 days, plus 2% to cover
administration costs. During the leave, the employee will not accrue time, nor
will he or she be eligible for any other benefit set out herein. The employee
is covered under health benefits for the first 90 days of leave.
   (C)   Notification.
      (1)   An employee on an approved leave should notify the Mayor of his or
her intent to return at least two weeks in advance. The city will make every
effort to place the employee in a job substantially the same in pay and duties
as the one vacated at the time the leave began.
      (2)   However, there is no guarantee of return to the exact job vacated.
      (3)   The returning employee will be considered for open positions
available at the time of return, but will not be eligible to displace any other
employee.
      (4)   Failure to report for work assignment at the designated return date
specified will result in termination unless an extension is requested and
granted by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. G-98-11, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-09-01, passed 2-
10-2009)
§ 32.42 REIMBURSEMENT FOR OFFICIAL USE OF A PRIVATE MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The use of a privately owned motor vehicle for city business shall entitle
the owner thereof to a per mile reimbursement equal in amount to the standard
mileage allowance adopted by the United States Department of the Treasury,
Internal Revenue Service, for the business use of an automobile during the
preceding year; provided, however, that, reimbursement shall only be allowed
when use of the privately owned motor vehicle has been authorized in advance by
the appropriate head.
(Prior Code, § 32.22) (Ord. G-03-09, passed 4-22-2003)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Investment of municipal funds
   
33.02   Charge for processing bad checks
   
33.03   Mileage allowance
   
33.04   Capitalization policy
   
33.05   Methods of payment for city service
   
33.06   Methods of payment for services of the city’s Department of Parks and
Recreation
   
33.07   Payment of pre-approved claims
   
33.08   Threshold for reporting cash and asset losses
   
33.09   Economic development revolving loan program
   
33.10   Guidelines for unrestricted donations
Funds and Fees
   
33.20   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
33.21   Fire Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund
   
33.22   Fire Special Equipment Fund
   
33.23   Emergency Ambulance Vehicle and Equipment Fund
   
33.24   Deferred prosecution fees
   
33.25   Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund
   
33.26   Police Department Petty Cash Fund
   
33.27   Police Department document reproduction fee
   
33.28   Ordinance establishing fees for use of indoor firing range
   
33.29   Police Department Building and Equipment Fund
   
33.30   General reproduction fee
   
33.31   Sidewalk Matching Fund
   
33.32   City Grant Fund
   
33.33   General Improvement Fund
   
33.34   Non-Reverting Capital Fund for the Park and Recreation Department
   
33.35   Non-Reverting Baseball Diamond Fund
   
33.36   Festival Fund for the Park and Recreation Department
   
33.37   Non-Reverting Fund for Pool Repairs and Renovations
   
33.38   Non-Reverting Operating Fund For the Park and Recreation Department
   
33.39   Non-Reverting Restricted Contributions Fund for Park and Recreation
Department
   
33.40   Promotional Fund
   
33.41   Commercial Motor Vehicle Operator Certification Fund
   
33.42   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.43   Revolving Fund
   
33.44   Riverboat Revenue Sharing Fund
   
33.45   Storm Water Improvement Fund
   
33.46   Insurance Reserve Fund
   
33.47   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.48   Cumulative Fire Fund
   
33.49   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
33.50   Fund 74, Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
33.51   Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund
   
33.52   Police Child’s Safety and Education Fund Payments and Purchasing
   
33.53   Parade Fund
   
33.54   Fire Station Project Fund
   
33.55   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
33.56   New Haven Redevelopment Commission Fund
   
33.57   Schnelker Park Centennial Celebration Fund
   
33.58   Destination New Haven Fund
   
33.59   Opioid Settlement Funds
   
33.60   Territory Special Fund
   
33.61   Donations Fund for Healthy New Haven Wellness Events
Payments and Purchasing
   
33.65   Payment of membership dues to organizations
   
33.66   Payment of claims in advance of Board allowance
   
33.67   City purchasing
   
33.68   Credit card policy
   
33.69   Advance payments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 INVESTMENT OF MUNICIPAL FUNDS.
   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer may invest funds within his or her control in any
or all of the following:
   (A)   Certificates of deposit issued by any state or federally chartered
bank having offices in the county;
   (B)   In repurchase or resale agreements involving the purchase and
guaranteed resale of any interest- bearing obligations issued or fully insured
or guaranteed by the United States or any United States government agency in
which type of agreement the amount of money must be fully collateralized by
interest-bearing obligations as determined by the current market value computed
on the date the agreement is effective;
   (C)   In those interest-bearing accounts of duly designated depositories,
commonly known as passbook savings accounts and money market deposit accounts;
   (D)   In passbook savings accounts, money market deposit accounts and
certificates of deposit issued by state building and loan associations or
federal savings and loan associations or savings banks; and
   (E)   In negotiable or transferable instruments for the purpose of making
transfers to third persons generally known as negotiable orders of withdrawal
(NOW) accounts of any:
      (1)   Bank, trust company or mutual savings incorporated under state law;
      (2)   National banking association;
      (3)   State chartered building and loan association operated as a deposit
association;
      (4)   Federally chartered savings and loan association operated as a
deposit association;
      (5)   Federally chartered savings bank; or
      (6)   State-chartered credit union having assets of $3,000,000 or more
which is federally insured; provided that, the financial institution has a
principal office or branch in the county.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. G-89-4, passed 2-14-1989)
§ 33.02 CHARGE FOR PROCESSING BAD CHECKS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to impose a fee for the processing
of bad checks received by the city in an amount equaling the maximum which is,
from time to time, authorized by the state legislature.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. G-89-6, passed 4-11-1989)
§ 33.03 MILEAGE ALLOWANCE.
   Mileage allowances for the use of a private vehicle on city business are
established from time to time by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 37.03) (Ord. G-93-8, passed 7-27-1993; Ord. G-97-8, passed 6-24-
1997)
§ 33.04 CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets; and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
government’s general fixed assets.
      ENTERPRISE FUNDS. Those funds used to account for operations:
         (a)   That are financed and operated in a manner similar to private
business enterprise, where the intent of the governing body is that the costs
(expenses, including depreciation) of providing goods or services to the
general public on a continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through
user charges; or
         (b)   Where the governing body has decided that periodic determination
of revenues earned, expenses incurred and/or net income is appropriate for
capital maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability and
other purposes.
      FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production or sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
      HISTORICAL COST. The case equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most
inventories are common examples of items recognized under the historical cost
attribute.
      IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS. Betterments affixed to real estate,
other than buildings, having a useful life of greater than two years. Examples
would include, but not be limited to, sidewalks, parking lots, fountains,
fences and retaining walls. Excluded are roads, streets or other infrastructure
open to the public for use without limitation or charge. Roads or streets open
as thoroughfares are excluded. Roads or drives providing ingress to and egress
from city buildings are assets. A sidewalk adjacent to public streets are
capital assets.
      MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. An apparatus, tool or conglomeration of pieces
to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become a part of a basic
structure or building.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
   (B)   Provisions for land.
      (1)   The city will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
      (2)   Exceptions to land capitalization are interests purchased for
rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures are roads and
streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs,
parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs and storm water collection.
      (3)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services, incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or city workers (salary and benefits), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean up and/or inspection).
      (4)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the
date of transfer, plus any associated costs.
      (5)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (C)   Provisions for machinery and equipment.
      (1)   The city will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to
form one unit with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be
one unit.
      (2)   Shipping charges, consultant fees and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery or set up, (including contractors and/or
city works (salary and benefits)), which makes such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
      (3)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (4)   Examples include:
         (a)   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights or radios for
use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit; and
         (b)   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, the city will capitalize each piece of equipment separately, if
it meets the required dollar amount.
      (5)   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard and printer) is
considered one unit.
      (6)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (7)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (D)   Provisions for buildings.
      (1)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting or sprinkler systems, or any part
of the basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed
or purchased exclusively for the building.
      (2)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets
the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than two years.
      (3)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book blue and
less the fair market value.
      (4)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material and any costs directly
attributable to the construction of a building.
      (5)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on
the date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (6)   Purchases made during federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (E)   Provisions for improvements other than buildings.
      (1)   The city will capitalize new improvements other than buildings only
if it meets the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than two years.
      (2)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less the fair market value.
      (3)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (F)   Recording and accounting.
      (1)   (a)   The city and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the chart of accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual.
         (b)   The cost of property, plant and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use.
         (c)   For purposes of recording fixed assets of the city and its
departments, the valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where
the historical cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in
existence.
      (2)   The city’s municipally owned utilities shall record acquisition of
fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. When
as asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition shall be recorded at the amount
of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and preparation
for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other arrangements
including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
         (b)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease;
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange of non- monetary assets;
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
         (f)   Acquisition by self-construction; and
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
      (3)   In addition, an asset register, in the form prescribed by the
state’s Board of Accounts, shall be maintained to provide reasonable assurances
that:
         (a)   Capital expenditures made by the city, its various departments
and utilities be in accordance with management’s authorization as documented in
the minutes;
         (b)   Transactions of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principles;
         (c)   Adequate detail records be maintained to assure accountability
for city and utility owned assets;
         (d)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization; and
         (e)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the
existing assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with
respect to any differences.
(Prior Code, § 37.10) (Ord. G-01-14, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 33.05 METHODS OF PAYMENT FOR CITY SERVICE.
   (A)   Methods of payment. The city may accept payment by any of the
following methods:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   Check;
      (3)   Bank draft;
      (4)   Money order;
      (5)   Bank card or credit card;
      (6)   Electronic funds transfer;
      (7)   Automated Clearing House (ACH);
      (8)   Venmo; and
      (9)   Paypal.
   (B)   Service charge. If there is any charge to the city for the use of any
of the above described payment methods, that charge shall be added to the
amount originally owing and shall be paid to the person or entity requesting
payment by that method.
   (C)   Credit cards. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to contract with a
bank card or credit card vendor for acceptance of bank cards or credit cards.
(Prior Code, § 37.15) (Ord. G-07-08, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. G-08-04, passed 7-
8-2008; Ord. G-22-05, passed 3-15-2022; Ord. G-24-22, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 33.06 METHODS OF PAYMENT FOR SERVICES OF THE CITY’S DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND
RECREATION.
   (A)   Methods of payment. The city may accept payment by any of the
following methods:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   Check;
      (3)   Bank draft;
      (4)   Money order;
      (5)   Bank card or credit card;
      (6)   Electronic funds transfer; and
      (7)   Automated Clearing House (ACH).
   (B)   Service charge. If there is any charge to the city for the use of any
of the above described payment methods, that charge shall be added to the
amount originally owing and shall be paid to the person or entity requesting
payment by that method.
   (C)   Credit cards. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to contract with a
bank card or credit card vender for acceptance of bank cards or credit cards.
(Prior Code, § 37.16) (Ord. G-07-10, passed 11-27-2007; Ord. G-22-06, passed 3-
22-2022)
§ 33.07 PAYMENT OF PRE-APPROVED CLAIMS.
   (A)   Types of claims. The city Fiscal Officer may make claim payments for
pre-approved claims of the following kinds:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
Government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   A product or service for which the Board of Works or the Parks and
Recreation Board has an accepted bid.
   (B)   Documentation. Each payment of expenses under this section must be
supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certifications by the Fiscal
Officer.
   (C)   Review by Board. The city board having jurisdiction over the allowance
of the claim shall review and allow the claim at its next regular or special
meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Prior Code, § 37.20) (Ord. G-10-01, passed 5-25-2010)
§ 33.08 THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING CASH AND ASSET LOSSES.
   (A)   All employees of the city shall report any variance, loss, shortage or
theft of which the employee becomes aware to his or her department head.
   (B)   All department heads and elected officials shall report all irregular
or erroneous variances, losses, shortages or theft of cash or assets to the
state’s Board of Accounts. A variance, loss, shortage or theft shall be
considered “material” if it exceeds $50 in cash or equivalent value.
   (C)   All department heads and elected officials of the city who have actual
knowledge of, or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a
misappropriation of public funds or assets of any of the following, including:
      (1)   Information obtained as a result of a police report;
      (2)   An internal audit or finding; and
      (3)   Any other source indicating a misappropriate has occurred, shall
immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the state’s Board of
Accounts and to the Prosecuting Attorney for the county.
(Ord. G-16-09, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 33.09 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Economic Development Revolving Loan Program will provide loans at
a low interest rate to be set by a committee at no more than $10,000 to any
individual business.
   (B)   Loans will be made from the City of New Haven Revolving Fund.
   (C)   The total loan amount from the City of New Haven to all business shall
not exceed $250,000.
   (D)   To qualify, a New Haven business must employ between two and 49
employees and applicant must be current on all taxes owed by it.
   (E)   The applicant shall be required to sign a note which will be secured
by collateral consisting of a mortgage to real estate owned by the business
and/or security agreement in the assets of the business and shall be obligated
to make minimum of interest only payments for six months with full repayment
within 24 months with no penalty for prepayment.
   (F)   The note shall provide for a low rate of interest to be established by
a Governing Committee.
   (G)   A Governing Committee shall be formed to review applications and
administer the loans consisting of the New Haven Chamber of Commerce President,
a member selected by the New Allen Alliance, the City of New Haven Community
and Economic Development Director, two appointees by the Mayor of New Haven,
one appointee by the New Haven City Council, and one appointee by the New Haven
Board of Works.
   (H)   The business will pay an application fee equal to the cost to
administer the program and preparation of the loan documents.
   (I)   The Governing Committee shall have the ability to delegate the
administration to the program to a person or agency only if such administration
would be at no cost to the City of New Haven.
(Res. R-20-08, passed 6-16-2020; Res. R-20-18, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 33.10 GUIDELINES FOR UNRESTRICTED DONATIONS.
   (A)   The city has the option and responsibility to either accept or reject,
in writing, any proposed donation.
   (B)   All unrestricted donations received by the city shall be receipted
into the city's general operating fund.
   (C)   Expenditure of unrestricted donations from the city's general
operating fund may be made only after an additional appropriation has been
provided for the purpose of the expenditure.
(Res. R-20-21, passed 8-4-2020)
FUNDS AND FEES
§ 33.20 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund. There is created a special fund to be known as the
“Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund” of the city into which the cigarette
taxes allotted to the city be reason of I.C. 6-7-1-30.1, together with such
other funds as may be from time to time allocated by the Common Council, shall
be deposited. The Fund shall be cumulative, all of moneys deposited into it
shall be appropriated and used solely for capital improvements as defined in
division (B) below, and none of the moneys shall revert to the General Fund or
be used for any purpose other than capital improvements.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
   (B)   “Capital improvements” defined. The term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS shall
include the authority to do each of the following:
      (1)   Purchase land, easements or rights-of- way;
      (2)   Purchase buildings;
      (3)   Construct or improve city owned property;
      (4)   Design, develop, purchase, lease, upgrade, maintain or repair:
         (a)   Computer hardware;
         (b)   Computer software;
         (c)   Wiring and computer networks; and
         (d)   Communications access systems used to connect with computer
networks or electronic gateways.
      (5)   Pay for the services of full-time or part- time computer
maintenance employees;
      (6)   Conduct non-recurring in-service technology training of unit
employees;
      (7)   Undertake Internet application development; or
      (8)   Retire general obligation bonds issued by the city for one of the
purposes stated in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or (B)(6)
above.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
   (C)   Authority for expenditure of capital funds. Funds deposited in the
Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund may be transferred to the General Fund or
expended only by ordinance or resolution of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
(Ord. G-7-65, passed 7-13-1965; Ord. G-90-27, passed 1-8-1991; Ord. G-02-14,
passed 9-10-2002; Ord. G-16-10, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 33.21 FIRE CUMULATIVE BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund.
      (1)   There is hereby re-established for the city a Cumulative Building
and Equipment Fund.
      (2)   The shall be levied as additional tax at the rate of $0.0333 cents
on each $100 of taxable property in the city. Said tax rate will be levied
beginning with taxes for 2015 payable 2016 for said Fund.
      (3)   Notice of the determination to establish said Cumulative Building
and Equipment Fund be given as provided by law and that all acts of the Common
Council be certified thereafter to the Department of Local Government Finance
of the state for further action.
(Prior Code, § 33.10)
   (B)   Purpose of Fund. The purpose of the Fire Cumulative Building and
Equipment Fund is to provide moneys for the acquisition of real estate, the
erection of fire stations, the erection of additions to and the remodeling of
the present buildings used to house firefighting equipment, and for the
purchase of firefighting equipment and police radio equipment.
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
(Ord. G-6-67, passed 4-11-1978; Ord. G-4-73, passed 6-12-1973; Ord. G-90-28,
passed 1-8-1991; Ord. G-93-9, passed 7-27-1993; Ord. G-05-05, passed 5-24-2005;
Ord. G-05-08, passed 8-23-2005; Ord. G-09-05, passed 3-10-2009; Ord. G-12-10,
passed 7-24-2012; Ord. G-15-01, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. G-16-10, passed 12-27-
2016)
§ 33.22 FIRE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a fund which shall be known as “Fire Special
Equipment Fund” (the “Fund”).
   (B)   Moneys received by the New Haven-Adams Township Fire Department from
donations, service charges and from the sale of retired or unnecessary
equipment shall be deposited in the Fund.
   (C)   Moneys in the Fund may be used by the New Haven-Adams Township Fire
Department to purchase special equipment or other items necessary or
appropriate to the Department’s service, the need for which does not generally
arise on a constant basis.
   (D)   Moneys in the Fund at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to
the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.13) (Ord. A-03-07, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 33.23 EMERGENCY AMBULANCE VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of fund.
      (1)   There is hereby established an Emergency Ambulance Vehicle and
Equipment Fund for the New Haven-Adams Township Fire/EMS Governing Body.
      (2)   It shall be funded by the moneys collected for the per loaded mile
transportation fee of the New Haven-Adams Township Fire/EMS Governing Body.
   (B)   Purpose of fund. The purpose of the Emergency Ambulance Vehicle and
Equipment Fund is to provide moneys for the purchase of emergency ambulance
vehicles and equipment for the New Haven-Adams Township Fire/EMS Governing
Body. Monies in the Fund may also be used to make improvements or pay debt
service incurred to make improvements to buildings which are owned and/or
operated by the New Haven-Adams Township Fire/EMS Governing Body.
(Prior Code, § 33.16)
(Ord. G-96-8, passed 8-13-1996; Ord. G-19-5, passed 3-26-2019; Ord. G-19-19,
passed 10-8- 2019; Ord. G-20-17, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 33.24 DEFERRED PROSECUTION FEES.
   Deferred prosecution funds collected by the City Court from the Office of
the Prosecuting Attorney for the county shall be authorized for deposit into
the city’s User Fee Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.17) (Ord. G-05-12, passed 9-27-2005)
§ 33.25 CLERK’S RECORD PERPETUATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund for the
deposit of certain revenues and fees received by the Clerk of the City Court
and required by law to be deposited into the Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund.
   (B)   The Clerk of the City Court shall collect the revenues and fees
required to be deposited into the Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund and shall
remit the same to the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit into Clerk’s Record
Perpetuation Fund.
   (C)   The Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund may only be expended after
appropriation for court record- keeping improvements and equipment.
Expenditures from the Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund shall be processed,
appropriated, claimed and allowed in the same manner as other claims of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 33.18) (Ord. G-01-16, passed 1-8-2001)
§ 33.26 POLICE DEPARTMENT PETTY CASH FUND.
   There is hereby established the Police Department a Petty Cash Fund in the
amount of $150, which Fund shall be used to pay small, incidental bills.
(Prior Code, § 33.40) (Ord. A-89-2, passed 3-14-1989)
§ 33.27 POLICE DEPARTMENT DOCUMENT REPRODUCTION FEE.
   (A)   The city’s Police Department shall charge the fees listed below, the
proceeds of which shall be deposited in the Police Department Continuing
Education Fund.
Service Fee
Service                                                    Fee
4-year hunting and target license                          $10/$5 refundable*
4-year personal protection license                         $10/$5 refundable*
Accident report                                            $12
Corrections officer handgun license                        No charge
Document copying (11 x 14 or less)                         $0.15 per page
Document copying (greater than 11 x 14)                    $1 per page
Fingerprinting                                             $7
Firearms dealer handgun license                            No charge
Full incident report                                       $0.15 per page
Initial incident report                                    No charge
Lifetime hunting and target license/current valid license  $40/$30 refundable*
Lifetime hunting and target license/no current license     $50/$30 refundable*
Lifetime personal protection license/current valid license $40/$30 refundable*
Lifetime personal protection license/no current license    $50/$30 refundable*
Limited criminal history - inspection                      $7
Limited criminal history - release                         $7
Retired police officer handgun license                     No charge
VIN check                                                  $5
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Refundable to the applicant if the license is not issued.
 
   (B)    The city’s Police Department shall charge the fees listed below, the
proceeds of which shall be deposited in the Police Department Continuing
Education Fund for production of materials in the following formats.
 
Service                          Fee
Audio CD duplication             $25
Computer disc duplication        $25
Photograph reprint               $5 each
Photograph reprint - digitalized $10
Thumbdrive                       $20 each
Videotape duplication            $40
 
(Prior Code, § 33.42) (Ord. G-03-24, passed 11-25-2003; Ord. G-06-04, passed 6-
27-2006; Ord. G-13-10, passed 7-23-2013; Ord. G-19-06, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 33.28 ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING FEES FOR USE OF INDOOR FIRING RANGE.
   The City of New Haven Police Department, by and through its Chief of Police,
shall have discretion to grant to other law enforcement agencies, established
firearm safety and training, or educational programs and, in some instances,
private citizens, to use or utilize the indoor firing range maintained by the
Department. When permission has been granted to use the firing range, fees
shall be collected from the users according to the following schedule:
   (A)   Law Enforcement agencies:
      (1)   Four hours and under, $50 per day.
      (2)   Four hours to eight hours, $100 per day. There shall be an eight
hour maximum per day.
   (B)   Established firearms, safety training or educational programs:
      (1)   Four hours and under, $50 per day.
      (2)   Four hours to eight hours, $100 per day. There shall be an eight
hour maximum per day.
   (C)   Individuals such as city employees, or individual officers from other
departments:
      (1)   Twelve dollars per hour, maximum one hour per day.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall also have the discretion to trade with other
police agencies, time at the range for equipment or services consistent with
the history of the Department.
   (E)   All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a
police building and equipment fund.
(Ord. G-19-07, passed 6-25-2019)
§ 33.29 POLICE DEPARTMENT BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   The resources of the Building and Equipment Fund of the city’s Police
Department may be used to improve the present location, prepare plans for new
facilities, to purchase new equipment or to pay for the unforseen operating
expenses, including the expenses of confidential investigations. The Fund is
authorized to receive contributions, donations and gifts as well as civil
forfeitures from criminal enterprises. Additionally, funds received from the
sale of police cars shall not revert to the General Fund, but shall be placed
in the Building and Equipment Fund of the city’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.45) (Ord. G-07-11, passed 11-27-2007)
§ 33.30 GENERAL REPRODUCTION FEE.
   Except as enumerated above, any city department required or requested to
reproduce a document shall charge the following fees, proceeds of which shall
be deposited to the General Fund.
Service Fee
Service                                                    Fee
Audio CD duplication                                       $25
Computer disc duplication                                  $25
Document copied by outside service                         Actual direct cost
Document copying black and while (11 x 14 or less)         $0.10
Document copying (11 x 14 or less)                         $0.25
Document copying (greater than 11 x 14)                    $1 per page
Photograph reprint                                         $5 each
Photograph reprint - digitalized                           Actual direct cost
Reprogramming to separate disclosable from non-disclosable Actual direct cost
data
Video/videotape duplication                                $40
Certification of record                                    $5 per document
 
(Ord. G-21-16, passed 7-30-2021)
§ 33.31 SIDEWALK MATCHING FUND.
   The city’s fiscal officer shall be authorized to establish a Sidewalk
Matching Fund. The exclusive purpose of the Fund will be to hold monies to fund
the costs of repair and maintenance of sidewalks within the city limits, which
costs shall be shared between property owners and the city.
(Ord. G-21-03, passed 2-2-2021)
§ 33.32 CITY GRANT FUND.
   There is created a special fund, to be known as “Fund 4 Grants” which shall
serve as the repository for all grants received by the city or any department
thereof. The Fund balance shall be managed in accordance with the rules and
regulations from time to time promulgated by the state’s Board of Accounts.
(Prior Code, § 33.55) (Ord G-03-11, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 33.33 GENERAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby established for the city a General
Improvement Fund pursuant to and in accordance with I.C. 36-9-17.
(Prior Code, § 33.60)
   (B)   Purpose of Fund. Subject to approval of the Board of Public Works of
the city, the purpose of the General Improvement Fund is to provide curb and
gutter work, and related improvements.
(Prior Code, § 33.61)
   (C)   Appropriations to Fund. The General Improvement Fund shall consist of
an appropriation made from the General Fund of the city in the amount of
$150,000. Said appropriation shall be from the COIT Fund in the existing
General Fund budget.
(Prior Code, § 33.62)
(Ord. G-92-9, passed 7-28-1992; Ord. G-18-9, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 33.34 NON-REVERTING CAPITAL FUND FOR THE PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is created a Special Non-Reverting Capital Improvements Fund for
the city’s Park and Recreation Department. The Fund shall be cumulative and
none of the moneys deposited into the Fund shall revert to the General Fund or
be used for any purpose other than capital improvements, as herein defined.
   (B)   The Common Council may include, but shall not be required to include,
in the city’s Park and Recreation Department’s budget an item of $50,000 each
year as an appropriation to the Special Non- Reverting Capital Improvements
Fund.
   (C)   The city’s Park and Recreation Department may use funds from the
Special Non-Reverting Capital Improvements Fund for the purpose of acquiring
land, engineering and constructing an extension of the community trail and
greenway with all details concerning said construction to be approved by
majority vote of the city’s Park and Recreation Board.
   (D)   The city’s Park and Recreation Department may use funds from the
Special Non-Reverting Capital Improvements Fund for the purpose of acquiring
land for new parks with the decisions concerning the acquisition of said land
to be determined by the city’s Park and Recreation Board.
   (E)   The city’s Park and Recreation Department may use funds from the
Special Non-Reverting Capital Improvements Fund for the purpose of repairing
and improving existing capital assets with all details concerning said
improvements and repairs to be approved by majority vote of the city’s Park and
Recreation Board.
   (F)   (1)   The city’s Park and Recreation Department shall deposit into the
Special Non- Reverting Capital Improvements Fund any donations which contain
restrictions on the use of the donation, set by the donor, that are consistent
with the uses of the Special Non-Reverting Capital Improvements Fund.
      (2)   Donations shall be deposited into the Fund only after said
donations have been approved by the city’s Park and Recreation Board in the
manner required by state law.
   (G)   Funds deposited into the Special Non- Reverting Capital Improvements
Fund may be expended only by resolution of the city’s Park and Recreation
Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.70) (Ord. A-90-11, passed 8-14-1990; Ord. A-03-01, passed 2-
11-2003; Ord. A-07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 33.35 NON-REVERTING BASEBALL DIAMOND FUND.
   (A)   There is established for and on behalf of the city’s Department of
Parks and Recreation a Special Non-Reverting Baseball Diamond Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   All user fees received by the Department of Parks and Recreation for
baseball diamonds shall be deposited into said Fund.
   (C)   The Fund may only be used for the purpose of baseball diamond
maintenance and repair as directed by the city’s Parks and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.71) (Ord. G-08-17, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 33.36 FESTIVAL FUND FOR THE PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Special Festival Fund for the city’s Park
and Recreation Department.
   (B)   The Festival Fund shall be designated as Fund 30 and any income earned
by the Fund, after provision for expenses, shall be transferred to the Park
Department’s Operating Fund, Fund 23.
(Prior Code, § 33.72) (Ord. A-09-07, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 33.37 NON-REVERTING FUND FOR POOL REPAIRS AND RENOVATIONS.
   (A)   There is established for and on behalf of the city’s Park and
Recreation Department a Special Non- Reverting Pool Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   Up to the sum of $50,000 shall be deposited into said Fund from the
general budget to the city’s Park and Recreation Department annually.
   (C)   The Fund may only be used for the purpose of pool maintenance and
repair as directed by the New Haven-Adams Township Park and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.73) (Ord. A-03-18, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 33.38 NON-REVERTING OPERATING FUND FOR THE PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is established for and on behalf of the city’s Park and
Recreation Department a Special Non- Reverting Operating Fund. Said Fund shall
be cumulative and none of the moneys deposited into said Fund shall revert to
the General Fund.
   (B)   Only moneys paid to the Park Department as fees for programs which are
conducted by the Park Board without tax subsidies and which are paid, in their
entirety, to a non-Park Department entity which is providing program services
to the Park Department shall be deposited into said Fund.
   (C)   Moneys deposited into the Fund shall only be paid to an entity which
is providing non-tax subsidized program services to the Park Department or, in
the case of a cancellation of a program, as a refund to the person who paid
said fees to the Park Department. Moneys deposited into the Fund shall be
expended only upon resolution of the city’s Park and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.74) (Ord. A-03-02, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 33.39 NON-REVERTING RESTRICTED CONTRIBUTIONS FUND FOR PARK AND RECREATION
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is established for and on behalf of the city’s Park and
Recreation Department a Special Non- Reverting Restricted Donations Fund. Said
Fund shall be cumulative and none of the moneys deposited into said Fund shall
revert to the General Fund.
   (B)   Donations received by the city’s Park and Recreation Department which
contain use restrictions shall be placed into the Special Non-Reverting
Restricted Donations Fund.
   (C)   If the city’s Park and Recreation Board determines that a donation
contains restrictions dictating that the donation is to be used solely for
capital improvements consistent with the Special Non- Reverting Capital
Improvements Fund, said donation may be deposited into the Special Non-
Reverting Capital Improvements Fund instead of this Fund.
   (D)   Donations shall be deposited into the Fund only after said donations
have been approved by the city’s Park and Recreation Board in the manner
required by state law. Moneys deposited into the Fund shall be expended only
for purposes consistent with the restrictions placed upon the gift by the
donor. Moneys deposited into the Fund shall be expended only upon resolution of
the city’s Park and Recreation Board.
   (E)   The Fund is allowed to accept grants with restrictions as well as
donations and hold and administer said grants according to the rules of said
fund.
   (F)   If the city’s Park and Recreation Board determines that a grant
contains restrictions dictating that the grant is to be used solely for capital
improvements consistent with the Special Non- Reverting Capital Improvements
Fund, said grant may be deposited into the Special Non-Reverting Capital
Improvements Fund instead of this Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.75) (Ord. A-03-03, passed 2-11-2003; Ord. A-03-19, passed 9-
9-2003)
§ 33.40 PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby established, for the city, the “New
Haven Promotional Fund”.
(Prior Code, § 33.80)
   (B)   Appropriations. The appropriation for the city’s Promotional Fund
shall be made each year in the annual budget of the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.81)
   (C)   Administration. The city’s Promotional Fund shall be administered by
the Mayor of the city at the discretion of the Mayor. Expenditures from the
Promotional Fund may include, but not be limited to, the cost of rental of
meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards, promotion of
industrial, commercial or residential development of relations with other units
of government together with any other matters deemed by the Mayor or the Common
Council of the city to be in the best interests of the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.82)
(Ord. G-90-15, passed 8-14-1990; Ord. G-04-05, passed 6-8-2004)
§ 33.41 COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR CERTIFICATION FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby established for the city the
“Commercial Motor Vehicle Operator Certification Fund”. It shall be funded
annually through the budget of the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.90)
   (B)   Purpose of Fund. City employees who are, by state law, required to
receive certification and licensing to operate commercial equipment shall be
licensed. The expenses associated with receiving a license, taking a written
test, taking a skills test, or retaking a test shall be borne by the city.
Covered expenses shall be paid from the Commercial Motor Vehicle Operator
Certification Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.91)
(Ord. G-90-16, passed 8-14-1990)
§ 33.42 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of the Fund. There is hereby established for the city a
“Rainy Day Fund”, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
(Prior Code, § 33.100)
   (B)   Purpose of the Fund. The Rainy Day Fund shall be a repository for such
unused and unencumbered balances as may remain in other city accounts. Moneys
in the Rainy Day Fund shall be held to meet unusual or unexpected expenses not
otherwise provided for in the budget.
(Prior Code, § 33.102)
   (C)   Transfers to the Fund. In any fiscal year, not more than 10% of the
city’s total budget for that fiscal year may be transferred by the Common
Council to the Rainy Day Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.104)
   (D)   Appropriations from the Fund. Before making an appropriation from the
Rainy Day Fund, the Common Council shall make a finding that the proposed use
of the moneys to be appropriated is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.106)
(Ord. G-02-16, passed 9-24-2002)
§ 33.43 REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   Revolving Fund. There is hereby created the "City of New Haven
Economic Development Revolving Fund", pursuant to I.C. 5-1-14-14(b).
(Prior Code, § 33.150)
   (B)   Use of Fund.
      (1)   The city may lend the money in the Revolving Fund to any borrower
if the Common Council finds that the loan will be used by the borrower for one
or more of the following economic development purposes:
         (a)   Promoting significant opportunities for the gainful employment
of the county's or municipality's residents;
         (b)   Attracting a major new business enterprise to the city; and
         (c)   Retaining or expanding a significant business enterprise in the
city.
      (2)   Activities that may be undertaken by the borrower in carrying out
an economic development purpose include expenditures for any of the following:
         (a)   Acquisition of land;
         (b)   Acquisition of property interests;
         (c)   Site improvements;
         (d)   Infrastructure improvements;
         (e)   Buildings;
         (f)   Structures;
         (g)   Rehabilitation, renovation or enlargement of buildings or
structures;
         (h)   Machinery;
         (i)   Equipment; and
         (j)   Furnishings.
(Prior Code, § 33.151)
   (C)   Terms and conditions of loan. A resolution of the Common Council
approving a loan from the Revolving Fund must contain the following:
      (1)   The term of the loan;
      (2)   The interest rate;
      (3)   The form of the note or notes;
      (4)   The medium of payment;
      (5)   The place and manner of payment;
      (6)   The manner of execution of the note or notes;
      (7)   The terms of redemption; and
      (8)   Any other provisions not inconsistent with this section.
(Prior Code, § 33.152)
   (D)   Issuance of bonds. The city may issue bonds pursuant to I.C. 36-9-32-7
(b) through 36-9-32-7(j) for the economic development purposes listed in
division (B) above and may repay the indebtedness solely from revenues derived
from the repayment of loans made pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 33.153)
   (E)   Transfer to CEDIT Fund. Money in the Revolving Fund may at any time be
transferred in whole or in part to the city's Economic Development Income Tax
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.154) (Ord. G-03-14, passed 6-24-2003; Ord. G-03-28, passed
12-23-2003; Ord. G-20-12, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 33.44 RIVERBOAT REVENUE SHARING FUND.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the “City of New Haven Riverboat
Revenue Sharing Fund”.
(Prior Code, § 33.160)
   (B)   Deposits. The city shall deposit to the Riverboat Revenue Sharing Fund
all moneys received by the city from the state’s riverboat wagering tax
pursuant to I.C. 4-33-13-5.
(Prior Code, § 33.161)
   (C)   Use of Fund. Moneys deposited in the Riverboat Revenue Sharing Fund
shall not revert to the General Fund and may be appropriated by the Common
Council for any lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 33.162)
(Ord. G-03-30, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 33.45 STORM WATER IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   The Common Council of the city hereby creates a “Storm Water Improvement
Fund” for expenditures associated with the improvements, betterments and
replacements of storm water systems, and the Fund, which is used to pay the
obligations of the storm water utility on a day-to-day basis, shall heretofore
be called the “Storm Water Operating Fund”.
(Prior Code, § 33.165) (Ord. G-09-04, passed 3-10-2009)
§ 33.46 INSURANCE RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Fund. The city’s Fiscal Officer shall be authorized
to establish an insurance reserve fund. The purpose of the Fund will be to hold
moneys to offset future insurance increases and also allow the city flexibility
to subsidize the cost of health insurance to city employees.
   (B)   Use of Fund. Any moneys placed into the Fund may be applied to the
city budget for the cost of health insurance or be partially allocated to city
employees to assist them in paying out-of-pocket costs of health care. Any
allocations to the employees may be made only by a majority vote of the Common
Council.
   (C)   Reversion to General Fund if repealed. Should this section be
repealed, then any moneys placed in the fund shall revert to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.170) (Ord. G-11-09, passed 12-27-2011)
§ 33.47 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The city fiscal officer shall be authorized to establish a Cumulative
Capital Development Fund. The purpose of the Fund will be for all uses as set
forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5
   (B)   Tax shall be levied at the rate of $.0500 on each $100 of taxable
property in the city for said Fund.
   (C)   No department may expend money from the Fund for operating costs of
the department.
(Ord. G-19-02, passed 3-12-2019; Ord. G-21-11, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. G-22-07,
passed 4-5-2022)
§ 33.48 CUMULATIVE FIRE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established a Cumulative Fire Fund for the
following purposes: All uses as set out in I.C. 36-8-14.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-14. The fund
will not exceed $.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said tax rate will
be levied beginning with taxes for 2019 payable 2020.
(Ord. G-19-03, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 33.49 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a LOIT Special Distribution Fund for
receipt and account of the above described distribution.
   (B)   The account shall be given its own fund designated on the city’s
budget line as may be designated by the Clerk-Treasurer from time to time.
   (C)   The unrestricted portion of the funds received by the city may be
deposited into the city’s General Fund into a properly created Home Rule Fund
or into the Rainy Day Fund.
(Ord. G-16-04, passed 6-14-2016; Ord. G-22-10, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 33.50 FUND 74, LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   The city’s Fiscal Officer shall be authorized to establish “Fund 74 -
Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund”. The purpose of the Fund will be to
collect and hold moneys for matching funds pursuant to the state’s Community
Crossings Matching Grant Fund Program.
   (B)   The initial transfers to the Fund will be $431,120.79 from Fund 257,
and an initial $568,880 from Fund 3, which collectively comprise of the
$1,000,000.79 matching funds to meet the requirements of the state’s Community
Crossings Matching Grant Fund Program.
   (C)   The moneys transferred to this Fund shall be expended only pursuant to
the requirements of the Community Crossings Matching Grant Fund Program. If,
for any reason, the funds cannot be used as part of the Community Crossings
Matching Grant Fund Program, funds shall be transferred back to their fund of
origin.
(Ord. G-17-2, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 33.51 FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of a Fire Protection Territory
Equipment Replacement Fun for the Woodburn- New Haven Fire and EMS Protection
Territory for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-8-19-8.5.
   (B)   The city will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-19-8.5. The
proposed Fund will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. This
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes due and payable in 2022 and
thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
(Ord. G-21-07, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 33.52 POLICE CHILD’S SAFETY AND EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   The City Fiscal Officer shall be authorized to establish a crime
prevention and education fund. The purpose of this fund would be to hold monies
for use by the Police Department to provide for the education of children
regarding crime prevention and public safety.
   (B)   The funds shall initially be funded through transfer from the dormant
D.A.R.E. fund. Thereafter, it shall be a fund available to the police for
transfers from other fund sources as may be appropriate for such purpose.
(Ord. G-19-10, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.53 PARADE FUND.
   (A)   The City Council authorizes the establishment of the Parade Fund to be
used for expenditures related to the city’s July 4th parade and/or the city’s
Holiday Homecoming event.
   (B)   Any donations for the Fourth of July parade and/or the Holiday
Homecoming event shall be placed in the Parade Fund.
(Res. R-20-20, passed 8-4-2020; Res. R-22-13, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 33.54 FIRE STATION PROJECT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund of the city designated as the
“Hartzell Road Fire Station Project Fund (the “Fund”). Upon receipt from the
county, all or a portion of the county funds shall be deposited into the Fund
and used for the payment of all costs of all or any portion of the Fire Station
Project, including the payment of any related or incidental expenses.
   (B)   The county funds, in an amount not to exceed $840,000, together with
all investment earnings thereon, deposited into the Fund are hereby
appropriated for the purpose of paying the costs of the Fire Station Project.
Such appropriation shall be in addition to all appropriations provided for in
the existing budget and shall continue in effect until the completion of the
Project.
   (C)   Any member of the Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk-Treasurer, and
the counsel to the Council are hereby authorized, empowered and directed, on
behalf of the city to take any other action as such individual deems necessary
or desirable to effectuate the foregoing, including the filing of a report of
this appropriation with the Indiana Department of Local Government Finance and
the execution of an agreement with a financial institution to hold and
administer the Fund, and any actions heretofore made or taken be, and hereby
are, ratified and approved.
(Ord. G-21-08, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 33.55 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the city from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the city
in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Uses of funding.
      (1)   The city shall only appropriate and use the funds to cover costs
incurred by the city by December 31, 2024 for the following:
         (a)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the city due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the city
prior to the emergency that being 2019; or
         (b)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The Common Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for
the use of funds.
(Ord. G-21-13, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 33.56 NEW HAVEN REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION FUND.
   Establishment of the RDC Discretionary Fund. The city’s fiscal officer shall
be authorized to establish a fund for the deposit of proceeds from the sale of
real property owned by the New Haven Redevelopment Commission located at
approximately 7300 Lincoln Highway East, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46803. This fund
shall be designated Fund No. 2501. The purpose of the fund will be to hold
monies resulting from the sale of real property owned and sold by the New Haven
Redevelopment Commission as described herein, and the New Haven Redevelopment
Commission shall have the sole authority and discretion to spend the monies
deposited into the Fund.
(Ord. G-22-17, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 33.57 SCHNELKER PARK CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION FUND.
   Establishment of the Schnelker Park Centennial Celebration Fund. The city’s
fiscal officer shall be authorized to establish a special non-reverting fund
for the deposit of proceeds from donations accepted at the Schnelker Park
Centennial Celebration held on September 17, 2022. This fund shall be
designated Fund No. 2502. The purpose of the fund will be to hold monies
resulting from donations accepted by the city at the Schnelker Park Centennial
Celebration on September 17, 2022. All donations received at the event must be
placed in the fund, and the monies deposited in the fund are to be used for
expenditures related to the Schnelker Park Centennial Celebration. Any monies
remaining in the fund following the event must be used for the upkeep and
maintenance of Schnelker Park. This fund shall remain in full force until all
monies are spent, at which time the fund shall be administratively dissolved.
(Ord. G-22-21, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 33.58 DESTINATION NEW HAVEN FUND.
   Establishment of the Destination New Haven Fund. The city’s fiscal officer
shall be authorized to establish a special non-reverting fund for the deposit
of proceeds from donations or grants accepted. This fund shall be designated
Fund No.     . The purpose of the fund will be to hold monies resulting from
donations or grants accepted by the city to fund a hotel-retail study to foster
economic development initiatives. All donations or grants received must be
placed in the fund, and the monies deposited in the fund are to be used for
expenditures related to study.
(Ord. G-22-28, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 33.59 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Opioid Settlement Unrestricted Fund is hereby established. This
account shall be referred to as 2257 on the city’s budget line.
   (B)   Opioid Settlement Restricted Fund is hereby established. This account
shall be referred to as 2257 on the city’s budget designation.
(Ord. G-22-38, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.60 TERRITORY SPECIAL FUND.
   (A)   The East Central Fire and EMS Protection Territory Executive Board
hereby approves the creation of a Territory Special Fund in an amount equal to
the funds received from donations, fees, fines or charges available according
to law, to provide support to the Territory and its Fire Department according
to the following requirements and regulations:
   (B)   The Territory Special Fund may be composed of the following non-
reverting, non-tax resources the Territory receives, such as:
      (1)   The Territory is allowed to receive and hold donations, gifts or
grants sought by the Territory or its Fire Department in the Territory Special
Fund;
      (2)   The Department is entitled to hold in the Territory Special Fund
for any charge, gifts, or honorarium fees paid to it for providing on-hand
services at sporting events, road races, conferences, or other large gatherings
where the Department provides services and receives a fees, gift, or fee;
      (3)   The Territory Special Fund may receive gifts or grants from any
foundations, estates or other bequests, or any charitable organization;
      (4)   The Territory Special Fund may receive any fees received by the
Department for any fire reports or other similar charges for reproduction;
      (5)   The Territory Special Fund may receive any proceeds for spill fees
charged by the Department;
      (6)   The Territory Special Fund may receive any proceeds for building,
code, or permit inspections requested, except Participating Unit in the
Territory shall be exempt from any such charges;
      (7)   The Territory Special Fund may receive any proceeds from false or
excess alarm fees charged by the Department; and
      (8)   The Territory Special Fund may receive any proceeds for any fees or
gifts given as consideration for use of the Department's vehicles or likeness
in commerce.
      (9)   The Territory Special Fund may receive any revenue generated for
any special EMS Contracted events where the Department is requested on a per-
event basis to provide EMS personnel or apparatus as sporting events, community
events, or other occasions where an EMS presence is requested as matter of
event safety both within and outside the Territory.
   (C)   The Territory Special Fund may be used to fund, subject to any
necessary appropriation, the following Territory and Department activities:
      (1)   CPR Instructor Training for additional compensation to provide
classes to the public or other responders;
      (2)   EMT Class Instructors;
      (3)   Other Specialty Class Instructor pay or gifts; classes such as
PHLTS, Stop-The-Bleed, PALS, PEPP, or similar type courses or instruction
benefitting the Territory and Department;
      (4)   Gifts for Department recognition for awards for member
accomplishments, morale, retirements, and promotions;
      (5)   Training equipment or fitness equipment;
      (6)   Specialized spending for Department items, Department-branded items
(calendars or apparel) or other merchandise for use as gifts, to promote the
Department or as gifts within or outside the Department to promote public
relations or morale within the Department and Territory; and
      (7)   Compensation for Territory personnel who work any special events,
sporting events, community events, or other occasions where an EMS presence is
requested as matter of event safety both within and outside the Territory as
identified herein.
(Res. R-22-24, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 33.61 DONATIONS FUND FOR HEALTHY NEW HAVEN WELLNESS EVENTS.
   (A)   The City Council authorizes the establishment of the Healthy New Haven
Wellness Events. Donations received toward such events, revenues and receipts
shall be placed in a special line item within the donations fund intended for
such fund and purpose. Such donations shall be used for expenditures related to
the Healthy New Haven Wellness Events as its established purpose. Any unused
balances in the line item shall not revert to the General Fund but shall be
kept within the donations fund.
   (B)   Income or investments of restricted donations to any Healthy New Haven
Wellness Event shall be initially receipted into the Healthy New Haven Wellness
line item of the donation fund.
   (C)   At any time wherein the city would choose to stop Healthy New Haven
Wellness Events, or the line item for Healthy New Haven Events becomes dormant
or it is determined that such line item is no longer needed for its intended
purpose, then any remaining balance of the line item shall be kept in the
donations fund or disbursed in accordance with the recommendation of the Clerk
Treasurer.
(Res. R-24-27, 9-3-2024)
PAYMENTS AND PURCHASING
§ 33.65 PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES TO ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The Common Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund, or from other funds, to provide membership for the city and
the elected and appointed officials and members of the municipality’s boards,
council, departments or agencies in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Common Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate
funds to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the
meetings and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. G-82-11, passed 7-27-1982)
§ 33.66 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS IN ADVANCE OF BOARD ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The city’s Fiscal Officer may make claim payments in advance of board
allowances for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
Government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance;
      (14)   A product or service for which the city legislative body had
accepted a bid; and
      (15)   Payment of credit card statements.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certifications by the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The city board having jurisdiction over the allowance of the claim
shall review and allow the claim at its next regular or special meeting
following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. G-95-19, passed 12-26-1995; Ord. G-24-16, passed 9-
24-2024)
§ 33.67 CITY PURCHASING.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is designated as the purchasing
agency for the city with all the powers and duties authorized under I.C. § 5-
22-8-1 through § 5-22-8-3, as amended.
   (B)   For individual purchases of services or supplies not exceeding $5,000
in cost, the Board of Works may, but shall not be obligated to, authorize a
city department head to complete the purchase on the open market without
obtaining quotes or bids.
   (C)   For all other small purchases of services or supplies, as defined by
I.C. 5-22-8-1 as amended, Board of Works’ approval shall be required after the
procedure of I.C. 5-22 and following has been followed.
   (D)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the city determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) (Ord. G-98-10, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. G-07-12, passed 11-
27-2007)
§ 33.68 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Credit card issuance.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make application for
credit cards used by city officials and employees for official city business
limited to travel and educational expenses and public purchases.
      (2)   Credit cards issued for travel and educational expenses shall have
a minimum limit of $2,000.
      (3)   Credit cards issued for public purchases shall have a maximum limit
of $5,000.
   (B)   Credit card use policies and procedures.
      (1)   When not in use, the credit cards shall be secured in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Upon request by a city official or employee, the Clerk-Treasurer or
Clerk-Treasurer designee shall issue the credit card for use and shall keep a
record showing the name and position of the individual requesting use of the
card, date of issuance, date of return, and purpose of use.
      (3)   Credit cards shall be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer as soon as
possible after use but in no circumstance more than 72 hours after the
employee's first date on site after use of the credit card.
      (4)   Any individual in possession of a credit card shall immediately
notify the Clerk-Treasurer if the credit card is lost or stolen while in their
possession.
      (5)   City officials and employees shall use credit cards for the purpose
of city travel and educational expenses limited to the following:
         (a)   Standard hotel or motel room at government rate.
         (b)   Required registration fees or costs associated with attending
schools, conventions, and seminars.
         (c)   Gasoline if using a city-owned vehicle.
         (d)   The following types of charges shall not be allowed to be
charged to a credit card:
            1.   Alcoholic beverage;
            2.   Personal toiletry articles, medicines, or other personal
convenience items (hotel mini bar or other);
            3.    Non-commercial lodging facilities, such as a relative or a
friend;
            4.   Airline or trip insurance, passports, or money orders;
            5.   Loss of funds or loss-damaged personal belongings;
            6.   Childcare, eldercare, babysitting, or pet care costs;
            7.   Barber or salon services;
            8.   Gum, candy, cigarettes or other tobacco products or vaping
products;
            9.   Penalties (airline or other);
            10.   Personal entertainment not related to the conference such as
movies, cable fees, health clubs, or golfing;
            11.   Parking or moving violations, bail, or legal fees;
            12.   Donations;
            13.   Medical expenses (human resources will need to be contacted
if a work-related injury occurs while traveling); and
            14.   ATM or banking service fees.
      (6)   City officials and department heads may use credit cards, with
approval of the department's governing body, for the purpose of city public
purchases limited to the following:
         (a)   Supplies;
         (b)   Materials; and
         (c)   Small tools and minor equipment.
      (7)   Accounts payable vouchers (claims) filed in connection with the use
of credit cards shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for processing within
72 hours of employee's first date on site after use and shall be properly
itemized and documented as provided in I.C. 5-11-10 before approved and paid.
The credit card amount will be paid in full every billing cycle. Improperly
itemized and documented items as well as all interest, carrying charges or
penalties shall be the personal responsibility of the individual user.
      (8)   Improper use of the credit card by any person may subject the
person to discipline, termination, and/or criminal charges.
(Ord. G-22-37, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.69 ADVANCE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent of the city, as defined and set forth in §
33.67, may allow advance payment for the purchase of goods and services either
directly or as part of a public works project consistent with and to the
fullest extent permitted by law, and as further limited by the purchasing agent
for the purchase.
   (B)   The solicitation for a public works contract providing for advance
payments for contractors to purchase materials for public works projects under
I.C. § 5-11-10-1.6 must include the following information:
      (1)   That the city will make advance payments to contractors to enable
contractors to purchase materials;
      (2)   Any limitations on the amount of advance payments that will be
made;
      (3)   Requirements for documentation relating to making advance payments
to contractors for materials; and
      (4)   Any other information about advance payment for materials the city
considers useful to contractors that make offers.
   (C)   The city Fiscal Officer or the Fiscal Officer’s designee must do all
of the following when advance payments are made for goods or services prior to
delivery of goods or completion of service:
      (1)   Track prepayments by defining the prepayment on a purchase order;
      (2)   Create a prepayment invoice that is associated with the purchase
order; and
      (3)   Require insurance or a surety bond in the amount of the prepayment
if the amount of the prepayment is more than $150,000.
   (D)   Advance payments made under divisions (A) and (B) may not exceed the
lesser of the following:
      (1)   Fifty percent of the entire cost of the contract; or
      (2)   Two million dollars.
   (E)   All other requirements for the payment of public works projects,
goods, and services by the city remain in effect and ordinances not directly
contradicted by the provisions of this section remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. G-23-29, passed 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 34: ROADS AND STREET MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE AND WHEEL TAXES
Section
   
34.01   Municipal motor vehicle license excise wheel surtax
   
34.02   Municipal wheel tax
§ 34.01 MUNICIPAL MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE EXCISE WHEEL SURTAX.
   (A)   Creation of fund. There is hereby created a municipal surtax fund,
which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from the Department of
Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be deposited into
the fund.
   (B)   Tax rates. Effective August 1, 2020, and in accordance with I.C. 6-
3.5-10-2(c), the surtax shall be imposed at the following rates:
      (1)   Passenger vehicles: $25 per year;
      (2)   Motorcycles: $25 per year;
      (3)   Trucks with a declared gross weight that does not exceed 11,000
pounds: $25 per year; and
      (4)   Motor driven cycles: $25 per year.
   (C)   Vehicle definitions. The definitions set forth in the Act shall apply
to this section.
   (D)   Uses of fund. Funds in the municipal surtax fund may be used for one
or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   To construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets and roads
under the city's jurisdiction; or
      (2)   For the city's contribution to obtain a grant from the local road
and bridge matching grant fund pursuant to I.C. 8-23-30.
   (E)   Transportation asset management plan. The Mayor shall prepare a
transportation asset management plan, approved by the Indiana Department of
Transportation, as required by I.C. 6-3.5-10-2(e) and I.C. 6-3.5-11-2(c) and
submit a copy of such plan to the Common Council on or before August 1 of each
year.
   (F)   Accounting of fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Common Council an estimate of the surtax revenues
to be received by the city under this section during the next calendar year.
The city shall include the estimated surtax revenues in the city's budget
estimate for the calendar year.
(Ord. G-20-10, passed 7-21-2020)
§ 34.02 MUNICIPAL WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   Creation of fund. There is hereby created a municipal wheel tax fund,
which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from the Department of
Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be deposited into
the fund.
   (B)   Tax rates. Effective August 1, 2020, and in accordance with I.C. 6-
3.5-11-2(d), the wheel tax shall be imposed on the following non-exempt
vehicles at the following rates:
      (1)   Buses: $40 per year;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles: $40 per year;
      (3)   Semitrailers: $40 per year;
      (4)   Tractors: $40 per year;
      (5)   Trailers: $40 per year; and
      (6)   Trucks: $40 per year.
   (C)   Vehicle definitions. The definitions set forth in the Act shall apply
to this section.
   (D)   Uses of fund. Funds in the municipal wheel tax fund may be used for
one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   To construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets and roads
under the city's jurisdiction;
      (2)   As a contribution to an authority established under I.C. 36-7-23;
or
      (3)   For the city's contribution to obtain a grant from the local road
and bridge matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30.
   (E)   Transportation asset management plan. The Mayor shall prepare a
transportation asset management plan as required in § 34.01(E).
   (F)   Accounting of fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Common Council an estimate of the wheel tax
revenues to be received by the city under this section during the next calendar
year. The city shall include the estimated wheel tax revenues in the city's
budget estimate for the calendar year.
(Ord. G-20-10, passed 7-21-2020)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Emergency Medical Services and
Subscription Program
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Administration
   
35.04   Eligibility
   
35.05   Persons covered
   
35.06   Member benefits
   
35.07   Enrollment
   
35.08   Enrollment fee
   
35.09   Implementation
   
35.10   Equal accessibility to EMS response
   
35.11   Program termination
Civil Defense and Emergency Preparedness
   
35.25   Title
   
35.26   Intent and purpose
   
35.27   Definitions
   
35.28   Advisory Council
   
35.29   Director of Emergency Preparedness
   
35.30   Declaration of emergency
   
35.31   Emergency powers
   
35.32   Emergency operations plan
   
35.33   Annexes to plan
   
35.34   City liability
   
35.35   Private liability
   
35.36   Violations
Hazard Mitigation
   
35.50   Adoption of Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
 
   
35.99   Penalty
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AND SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAM
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The declared purpose of this subchapter is to help families, individuals and
businesses financially in the event of a medical emergency by minimizing heath
care costs for those choosing to participate in the program.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. The designed ground ambulance service that provides transport
services for the NH-ATEMS patients.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (EMS). Those services provided by the New Haven-
Adams Township Fire and EMS and its designated ambulance provider related to
the assessment, treatment and transport of patients during the course of an
emergency medical incident.
   EMS SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAM. A voluntary membership program in which a person
pays an annual membership fee so that, in the event of a future medical
emergency, the person will not be required to pay the Fire Department EMS
response fee, or any portion hereof, out-of-pocket should the person not have
insurance or should his or her insurance not fully cover the fee.
   MEMBER. A person who is a resident of the city or in an unincorporated part
of Adams Township, Allen County, Indiana, or who lives in an area of Jefferson
and Milan Township, which is contracted for services with NH-ATEMS who has
subscribed to the EMS subscription program by paying the voluntary annual fee
and completing the appropriate application process.
   NH-ATEMS. The New Haven-Adams Township Fire and EMS.
   RESIDENT. Any person whose permanent place of residence is within the city
boundaries, or in an unincorporated part of Adams Township, Allen County,
Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 91.51) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The NH-ATEMS and the Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall be
jointly responsible for the development, implementation and administration of
the EMS subscription program.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall report as requested to the
Common Council on the status of the subscription program, including financial
statements setting forth the Program’s financial status, as requested.
   (B)   The NH-ATEMS shall provide the Clerk-Treasurer with any technical/
medical information needed. The EMS Chief and the Clerk-Treasurer shall jointly
approve all program marketing and advertising.
(Prior Code, § 91.52) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.04 ELIGIBILITY.
   To enroll in the EMS subscription program, a person must be at least 18
years of age and be a resident of the city or in an incorporated portion of
Adams Township, in Allen County, Indiana, or who lives in an area of Jefferson
and Milan Township which is contracted for services with NH-ATEMS.
(Prior Code, § 91.53) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.05 PERSONS COVERED.
   (A)   All persons who reside in the member’s home are covered anywhere
within the city limits.
   (B)   The administrative program approved by the Common Council shall
contain policies and procedures necessary to ensure coverage is properly
afforded to member residents.
(Prior Code, § 91.54) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.06 MEMBER BENEFITS.
   Members will be responsible only for an amount actually paid by a member’s
insurance company, under the following conditions: if applicable insurance pays
a portion of the charges, then the member is not responsible for any balance
not paid by the member’s insurance. If the member is uninsured or the member’s
insurance pays nothing toward the fee, or pays and amount equal to, or less
than, a member’s deductible, the fee would be charged to the member at 70% of
the total fee.
(Prior Code, § 91.55) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.07 ENROLLMENT.
   Each resident and business of the city will have the opportunity to join the
EMS program at any time throughout the year. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
administratively establish an enrollment and billing methodology for
subscribers.
(Prior Code, § 91.56) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.08 ENROLLMENT FEE.
   Enrollment fees shall be $55 and may be adjusted from time to time by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 91.57) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.09 IMPLEMENTATION.
   Implementation of the EMS subscription program shall begin immediately.
(Prior Code, § 91.58) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.10 EQUAL ACCESSIBILITY TO EMS RESPONSE.
   Under no circumstances will the delivery and application of available
emergency medical services and ambulance transportation be delayed or refused
based upon whether or not a person is an EMS subscription program member or can
demonstrate an ability to pay any applicable EMS fee.
(Prior Code, § 91.59) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 35.11 PROGRAM TERMINATION.
   If the Common Council chooses to terminate the program prior to any new
program year, New Haven-Adams Township Fire and EMS shall refund membership
fees back to program members on a prorated basis. The New Haven-Adams Township
Fire and EMS shall be obligated to provide 30 days’ written notice to program
members prior to program termination.
(Prior Code, § 91.60) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 8-28-2012)
CIVIL DEFENSE AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
§ 35.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Civil Defense and Disaster Ordinance
of New Haven”.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.26 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to establish a Civil Defense
Department to coordinate disaster and emergency preparedness.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. A direct or indirect assault, including, but not limited to,
bombing, chemical, biological or radiological warfare, sabotage, violence and
civil disorder by unfriendly foreign or domestic elements.
   CIVIL DEFENSE. A broad term meaning to carry out basic governmental
functions of providing for the common defense, protecting the public peace,
health and safety and preserving the lives and property of the people. It shall
not, however, include any activity that is the primary responsibility of the
military forces of the United States. It does include, without limitation,
firefighting services, police services, medical and health service, rescue,
engineering, warning services, communications, chemical, biological,
radiological and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from
stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other like
services.
   CIVIL DEFENSE FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of all city
departments, boards and commissions; and all volunteer personnel, equipment and
facilities contributed by or obtained from volunteer persons or agencies.
   CIVIL DEFENSE VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified and
appointed by the Director of Emergency Preparedness and assigned to participate
in civil defense activity.
   DIRECTOR. The City Director of Emergency Preparedness, as established under
this chapter.
   DISASTER. The occurrence of imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm,
wave action, oil spill, other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, air contamination, drought, explosion, riot or
“attack”, as defined by this section.
   REGULATIONS. Plans, programs and other emergency procedures deemed essential
to civil defense.
   VOLUNTEER. One who contributes a service, equipment or facilities to the
civil defense organization without remuneration.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.28 ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint an advisory council, known as the “City Emergency
Preparedness Advisory Council”, which shall exercise general supervision over
planning a civil defense and disaster program.
   (A)   The city’s Chief of Police and Fire Chief shall be members of this
Council.
   (B)   Members of the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be members of
this Council.
   (C)   The city’s Works Superintendent shall be a member of this Council.
   (D)   From time to time, the Mayor may appoint to the Council private
citizens and representatives of those volunteer organizations and city offices
and departments deemed appropriate for effective civil defense and disaster
preparedness planning. All appointments shall be for one year, unless otherwise
provided for by the Mayor.
   (E)   The Director of Emergency Preparedness shall be a permanent member of
the Advisory Council.
   (F)   The Council shall elect its own officers: President; Vice President;
and Secretary; and shall meet as necessary to effectively plan a civil defense
and disaster program.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.29 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS.
   (A)   The office of the city’s Director of Emergency Preparedness shall be
directly responsible to the Mayor for the organization, administration and
operation of the city’s civil defense and disaster program.
   (B)   The Director shall coordinate the civil defense forces and the
volunteer persons and agencies who offer acceptable service to the city.
   (C)   The Mayor may authorize the Director to obtain vital supplies,
equipment and other properties found lacking and as necessary for the adequate
civil defense, and bind the city for the fair value thereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.30 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor may declare a local disaster emergency, and such a declaration
shall activate all necessary aspects of the appropriate civil defense plans and
authorize the furnishings of aid and assistance under same.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.31 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   (A)   After declaring a local disaster emergency, the Mayor may make, amend
and rescind such regulations as may be necessary. Such regulations shall have
the full force and effect of law, and may include, but shall not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting the movement of vehicles or pedestrians
in order to facilitate the work of civil defense forces; and
      (2)   Authorizing and directing the mass movement of persons from areas
within the city deemed critical, hazardous or vulnerable to disaster.
   (B)   Such regulations shall be in force for 30 days after enacted, unless
extended by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.32 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   A comprehensive civil defense and emergency operations plan shall be adopted
and maintained by resolution of the city’s Emergency Preparedness Advisory
Council and approval by the Mayor. The plan shall be considered supplementary
to this chapter and shall have the force and effect of law whenever a
“disaster”, as defined in §
35.27 of this chapter has been declared.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.33 ANNEXES TO PLAN.
   (A)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibilities in
the emergency operations plan shall be responsible for carrying out all duties
and functions assigned therein.
   (B)   Duties will include the organization and training of assigned city
employees and volunteers.
   (C)   Each chief and department head shall formulate the operational plan
for his or her service or department, which, when approved, shall be an annex
to and a part of this plan.
(Prior Code, § 35.09) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.34 CITY LIABILITY.
   This chapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health and safety, and neither the city,
nor agents and representatives of the city, or any individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or trustee, or any of the agents thereof,
in good faith carrying out and complying with this subchapter or with any
regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, shall be
liable for any damage sustained to persons or property as the result of that
compliance or attempted compliance.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.35 PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the city the right to inspect,
designate or use the whole or any part thereof for the purpose of sheltering
persons during any actual, impending or practice attack or disaster shall not
be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any person on or about such
real estate or premises under such license, privilege or other permission or
for loss of or damage to the property of such person.
(Prior Code, § 35.11) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 35.36 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter or of the regulations or plan issued pursuant to the authority
contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the
civil defense organization herein described in the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter or of any regulation or plan issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 35.98) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986) Penalty, see §
35.99
HAZARD MITIGATION
§ 35.50 ADOPTION OF MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as developed by Allen County with respect
to several communities including New Haven as prepared by the POLIS Center is
hereby adopted in its entirety and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. G-24-06, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
35.25 through
35.36 of this chapter or any regulation or plan promulgated hereunder, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100, plus
cost of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 35.99) (Ord. G-86-2, passed 2-11-1986)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND WATER SUPPLY
      
51.   SEWERS AND SEWAGE SYSTEM
      
52.   DOMESTIC SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
      
53.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND WATER SUPPLY
Section
Water Rates and Charges
   
50.01   Metered rates per month
   
50.02   Sprinkler system connection rates
   
50.03   Tap charge
   
50.04   Temporary users
   
50.05   Minimum charges
   
50.06   Fire hydrant rental
   
50.07   Water tracker increase
   
50.08   Fee schedule
Rules and Regulations
   
50.20   Billing procedure for regular users
   
50.21   Billing procedure for temporary users
   
50.22   Discontinuance of service
   
50.23   Service pipes
   
50.24   Taking water from hydrants or fixtures without authorization
   
50.25   Permit required for temporary use
   
50.26   Interference with water installations
   
50.27   Cancellation of water supply permits
   
50.28   Service to be metered
   
50.29   Usage of water during emergencies
   
50.30   Deposits
   
50.31   Refund of deposits
   
50.32   Granting of service to users outside the city
   
50.33   Well water service
Removal of Jurisdiction
   
50.45   Removal of jurisdiction
 
   
50.99   Penalty
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.01 METERED RATES PER MONTH.
   There are established, for the use of and the service rendered by the
waterworks system of the city, the following rates and charges based on the use
of water supplied by the waterworks system, to be effective June 11, 2024:
   (A)   Rates for service within the city limits.
 
Metered Rates per Month                Rate per 1,000 Gallons
For the first 2,500 gallons per month  $10.26
For the next 5,000 gallons per month   $9.21
For the next 10,500 gallons per month  $8.25
For the next 18,000 gallons per month  $7.72
For the next 24,000 gallons per month  $7.24
For the next 940,000 gallons per month $6.68
 
   (B)   Rates for service without the city limits.
 
Metered Rates per Month                Rate per 1,000 Gallons
For the first 2,500 gallons per month  $12.28
For the next 5,000 gallons per month   $11.05
For the next 10,500 gallons per month  $9.89
For the next 18,000 gallons per month  $9.30
For the next 24,000 gallons per month  $8.67
For the next 940,000 gallons per month $8.00
 
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. G-95-2, passed 3-28-1995; Ord. G-01-9, passed 8-14-
2001; Ord. G-10-8, passed 5-24-2011; Ord. G-17-1, passed  2-28-2017; Ord. G-20-
06, passed 4-7-2020; Ord. G-21-09, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. G-22-12, passed 6-7-
2022; Ord. G-23-04, passed 3-7-2023; Ord. G-24-08, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 50.02 SPRINKLER SYSTEM CONNECTION RATES.
   The following rates shall be charged per annum for sprinkler system
connections:
 
2-inch connection  $262.50
4-inch connection  $594.13
6-inch connection  $802.08
8-inch connection  $997.30
10-inch connection $1,574.42
12-inch connection $2,257.69
 
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. G-95-2, passed 3-28-1995; Ord. G-01-9, passed 8-14-
2001; Ord. G-10-8, passed 5-24-2011; Ord. G-17-1, passed 2-28-2017; Ord. G-20-
06, passed 4-7-2020; Ord. G-21-09, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. G-22-12, passed 6-7-
2022; Ord. G-22-32, passed 10-18-2022; Ord. G-23-04, passed 3-7-2023; Ord. G-
23-10, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. G-24-08, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 50.03 TAP CHARGE.
   (A)    A tap charge shall be collected from each customer prior to
connection to the water system, in an amount sufficient to reimburse the city
for labor, material and overhead necessary for tapping the main, installation
of service from the main to the property line (including the curb stop) and the
cost of the furnishing and installing a suitable water meter.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall, by resolution,
establish the charges to be made by the city waterworks to the users thereof
for the furnishing of water meters and the connections or tap charges to the
water mains of the city waterworks.
   (C)   The property owner shall be liable for all costs and charges that may
be required for obtaining necessary highway and other permits to make a water
tap to the user’s premises.
 
Water Meter Size                          Fee
3/4-inch bronze meter with radio remote   $240
1-inch bronze meter with radio remote     $325
1-1/2-inch bronze meter with radio remote $480
2-inch bronze meter with radio remote     $610
 
 
Water Tap Size Fee
All tap sizes  $2,000
 
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. G-95-2, passed 3-28-1995; Res. R-01-2, passed 8-7-
2001; Res. R-03-1, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. G-23-13, passed 9-5-2023; Ord. G-23-
14, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 50.04 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors and the like, shall
be charged on the basis of the metered rates set forth in §
50.01 of this chapter, as estimated and established by the Waterworks
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. G-95-2, passed 3-28-1995)
§ 50.05 MINIMUM CHARGES.
   Each user shall pay a minimum monthly charge in accordance with the size of
meter installed, for which the user will be entitled to the quantity of water
set in the metered schedule of rates.
   (A)   Minimum rates for service within the city limits.
Size of Meter Minimum Monthly
Size of Meter          Minimum Monthly
3/4-inch water meter   $20.52
1-inch water meter     $37.80
1-1/4-inch water meter $55.36
1-1/2-inch water meter $69.12
2-inch water meter     $116.88
3-inch water meter     $209.00
4-inch water meter     $324.26
6-inch water meter     $519.96
 
   (B)   Minimum rates for service without the city limits.
Metered Rates per Month Minimum Monthly
Metered Rates per Month Minimum Monthly
3/4-inch water meter    $24.57
1-inch water meter      $45.41
1-1/4-inch water meter  $66.45
1-1/2-inch water meter  $82.98
2-inch water meter      $140.27
3-inch water meter      $250.83
4-inch water meter      $389.10
6-inch water meter      $623.97
 
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. G-95-2, passed 3-28-1995; Ord. G-01-9, passed 8-14-
2001; Ord. G-10-8, passed 5-24-2011; Ord. G-17-1, passed 2-28-2017; Ord. G-20-
06, passed 4-7-2020; Ord. G-21-09, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. G-22-12, passed 6-7-
2022; Ord. G-23-04, passed 3-7-2023; Ord. G-24-08, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 50.06 FIRE HYDRANT RENTAL.
   The charge for fire hydrant rental shall be $404.05 per year for each fire
hydrant located within the city limits and $484.86 per year for each fire
hydrant located outside the city limits, payable annually.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. G-95-2, passed 3-28-1995; Ord. G-01-9, passed 8-14-
2001; Ord. G-10-8, passed 5-24-2011; Ord. G-17-1, passed 2-28-2017; Ord. G-20-
06, passed 4-7-2020; Ord. G-21-09, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. G-22-12, passed 6-7-
2022; Ord. G-23-04, passed 3-7-2023; Ord. G-24-08, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 50.07 FIRE PROTECTION CHARGE.
   (A)    Rates within the city limits.
3/4-inch water meter   $3.30
1-inch water meter     8.43
1-1/4-inch water meter 12.34
1-1/2-inch water meter 18.92
2-inch water meter     33.66
3-inch water meter     75.74
4-inch water meter     134.63
6-inch water meter     302.89
 
   (B)   Minimum rates for service without the city limits.
3/4-inch water meter   $3.96
1-inch water meter     10.11
1-1/4-inch water meter 14.80
1-1/2-inch water meter 22.70
2-inch water meter     40.39
3-inch water meter     98.88
4-inch water meter     161.55
6-inch water meter     363.46
 
(Ord. G-24-08, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 50.08 FEE SCHEDULE.
   In addition to the meter rates, the fee schedule of the New Haven Water
Utility shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   Residential deposit: $100;
   (B)   Trip charge: $20;
   (C)   After-hours/weekend/holiday trip charge: $40;
   (D)   Temporary 45-day construction water: $40; and
   (E)   Meter testing ($30 plus trip charge of $20): $50.
(Ord. G-20-06, passed 4-7-2020)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.20 BILLING PROCEDURE FOR REGULAR USERS.
   (A)    The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for billing regular users
and shall have the authority, upon approval by the Board of Works and Safety,
to appoint personnel to collect those fees.
   (B)   All water collected for regular users shall be billed monthly and
shall be due and payable on the first day of the month following the date of
billing.
   (C)   All bills for water service not paid within 15 days from the due date
shall be deemed delinquent and subject to a collection charge of 10% on water
on the first $3 and 3% on all over $3. If the sewage charge is not paid by the
penalty date, a 10% penalty will be added.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961; Ord. G-82-83, passed 10-12-
1982; Ord. G-84-26, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-18-12, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 50.21 BILLING PROCEDURE FOR TEMPORARY USERS.
   (A)   In case of temporary users, the Waterworks Superintendent is
authorized to demand payment in advance for the amount of water estimated to be
required by the temporary users, in case the temporary use will be for a period
of less than one week.
   (B)   Where temporary use will be required for a period in excess of one
week, the Waterworks Superintendent is authorized to require a deposit equal to
the amount of water to be used the first week of the temporary use, and
thereafter to require a deposit in advance from week to week.
   (C)   Where water is furnished under a special contract, the Waterworks
Superintendent shall collect the charges in accordance with the provisions of
the contract.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961; Ord. G-82-83, passed 10-12-
1982)
§ 50.22 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)    In the event service charges are not paid before the close of the
second succeeding calendar month following the date of billing, notice shall be
issued to the user in default that service shall be discontinued. The notice
shall provide that the user may have the opportunity to dispute the
appropriateness of the disconnection by requesting a hearing before the
Department of the Board of Works by sending a written notice within seven days
of the date of the disconnection notice to the city's Utility Department. If a
written dispute is received from the user, it shall be placed on the agenda and
heard at the next scheduled Board of Works meeting and the issues shall be
decided by a majority of the Board of Works.
   (B)   For service to be reinstated, payments on shut-off notices must be
paid at the utility office.
   (C)   If disconnection for nonpayment occurs, the entire account balance,
plus a reconnection fee, must be paid prior to restoration of service.
   (D)   A utility meter must be read at a minimum of once every six months by
an authorized utility representative. In addition to discontinuance of service
for the customer's failure to provide the utility access for regular meter
readings, and after a period of six months without a read, the utility will
require the customer to install a radio reading device to ensure future reads.
The failure of the customer to provide the utility access for such installation
shall be grounds for discontinuance of service. Arrangements with the utility
for installation of the device shall be made within ten days after notification
of such required installation.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to cause duly qualified
representatives of the Utility Department, or other employee in charge of the
operation, to shut off and reinstate water service in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. 653, passed 12-1-1958; Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961;
Ord. G-9-78, passed 9-12-1978; Ord. G-84-26, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-86-6,
passed 3-11-1986; Ord. G-13-11, passed 7-23-2013; Ord. G-18-12, passed 6-26-
2018)
§ 50.23 SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   Service pipes intended to supply two or more district premises or
tenants must be provided with a separate stopcock for each tenant on the
outside of each premises. Where only one stopcock is used, the owner of the
service shall pay the water rate for the parties who are thus supplied, and on
the failure of anyone to pay the water rates when due or to comply with the
rules and regulations of the waterworks system, the supply of water will be
withheld without any liability on the part of the city to any of the parties.
   (B)   Consumers shall not turn the water on or off at the curbcock. All
service pipes must have a stopccok and wastecock placed between the curb and
the premises, to shut the water off and drain pipes to keep them from freezing
and to make repairs.
   (C)   Any changes necessary to be made in the location of a curbcock will be
made at the expense of the property owner. Notice will be given to the agent or
owner and, if the work is not done within a reasonable length of time, the city
will do the work and the expense will be charged to the owner; and if not paid
on or before the next following payment of water rent, the water service will
be shut off until payment is made.
   (D)   In cases of new installations, no service pipes will be allowed to run
across lots, from one lot to another, but each lot shall be served by a service
pipe taken direct from the main serving the premises.
   (E)   In case of new installation, no two separate premises shall be
supplied from one service pipe. A separate service shall be installed by each
separate premises; however, apartment houses, duplex flats and double houses
are excepted.
   (F)   In all cases where service is connected direct to boilers or other hot
water fixtures that are likely to cause a backwater pressure, a check valve
must be installed on the service pipe to prevent injury to the meter, and all
damages caused to meters by back pressure shall be paid for by the consumer
where the damage occurs.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
§ 50.24 TAKING WATER FROM HYDRANTS OR FIXTURES WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   All owners are strictly prohibited from furnishing water or allowing
it to be taken from their hydrants or fixtures by other persons unless the
persons secure a permit from the Waterworks Superintendent.
   (B)   No person shall take water from any hydrant, except for fire purposes
or for cleaning streets.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. 653, passed 12-1-1958; Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TEMPORARY USE.
   Contractors using water for building purposes, and other temporary users,
must secure a permit from the Waterworks Department.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
§ 50.26 INTERFERENCE WITH WATER INSTALLATIONS.
   All persons are forbidden to cover up or in any way interfere with any curb
box, valve box or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
§ 50.27 CANCELLATION OF WATER SUPPLY PERMITS.
   All permits for water supply may be canceled at the option of the city and
service discontinued for the following reasons:
   (A)   The wasting or improper use of water through the use of defective or
imperfect fixtures or in any other manner;
   (B)   For refusal or neglect to pay bills promptly, or any other charges
accruing, in the manner and at the time herein provided;
   (C)   For interference or tampering with the water meterbox, meterseals or
any service or appliances of the waterworks system used for controlling or
regulating the supply of water;
   (D)   For failure to apply for a permit in case of change of ownership or
tenancy; and
   (E)   For defrauding the Waterworks Department in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
§ 50.28 SERVICE TO BE METERED.
   (A)   Any and all services may be metered. The size of the meter to be used
shall be determined by the Superintendent or other person in charge of the
Waterworks Department.
   (B)   Any changes in the service pipes or fixtures that may be necessary to
set the meter properly to avoid freezing and to make all water used on any
premises pass through the meter shall be made at the expense of the property
owner or consumer, and the cost thereof shall be paid before the water is
turned on.
   (C)   Where meters are set in basements or cellars, the consumer will be
required to keep the surroundings of the meter clean and with ease of access
and protect the same from freezing or injury.
   (D)   PREMISES shall include all buildings or divisions under one common
roof, owned by one party, and all dwellings or buildings owned by one party and
supplied through one service pipe from the main; and one or more meters may be
placed on service pipes leading into the premises, and all charges will be made
against each rental unit or customer served.
   (E)   In case any meter shall become out of order and fail to register the
quantity of water passing through it, the consumer shall be charged at the rate
of average consumption registered by the meter before it became out of repair.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation vacating premises without paying for
all water rents up to the time of the vacation shall not, thereafter, be
supplied with water through any service until all back water rents are paid.
(Prior Code, § 50.23) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
§ 50.29 USAGE OF WATER DURING EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
persons, firms, partnerships, associations, corporations, companies or
organizations or any kind connected to the city water supply system or
purchasing or using water therefrom (all such persons or entities are
hereinafter referred to as “users”).
   (B)   Declaration of need. Upon a determination by the Mayor or the Board of
Works and Safety that the city public water system is in imminent danger of a
shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, the Mayor shall
declare a water conservation emergency and establish the appropriate water
conservation measures as set forth in this section and the duration thereof.
   (C)   Voluntary conservation. If notice of a voluntary water conservation
emergency is given, users may be requested to reduce consumption by practicing
voluntary conservation techniques. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall
suggest reasonable and meaningful actions which will alleviate existing or
potential water shortage, which suggestions should include, but not necessarily
be limited to:
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass,
ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation,
other than that done by the use of hand-held watering containers, or that
necessary for the production of food, maintenance of livestock and pets,
maintenance of stock by commercial nurseries or maintenance of arboretums and
public gardens of national, state or regional significance to preserve
specimens;
      (2)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad
cars or any other type of mobile equipment, other than by commercial car
washes;
      (3)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or any
other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Non-essential washing and cleaning of any business equipment or
machinery;
      (5)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools with a 50-gallon or
more capacity and/or ornamental fountains; and/or
      (6)   Knowingly allowing defective plumbing.
   (D)   Rationing.
      (1)   If notice of a water rationing emergency is given, users, in
addition to the voluntary conservation measures identified above, shall be
limited to water use in accordance with a schedule established by the Board of
Public Works and Safety for residential use, business use, commercial use and
industrial use.
      (2)   In determining an appropriate schedule or schedules for the
rationing of water use, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall consider the
volume of water used by the user during the corresponding month of the
preceding year or, in the event that the user was not residing in or in
business in or operating in the area served by the city public water system,
the Board of Public Works and Safety shall consider the average monthly volume
of water used during the number of months such user was residing in, in
business in, or operating in the city public water system area.
   (E)   Exceptions. Alternative conservation or rationing requirements may be
established for the following:
      (1)   Health care providers;
      (2)   The reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and
sanitary standards; and
      (3)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be
necessary for the public health and well-being.
   (F)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by whatever
means deemed appropriate by the Mayor or the Board of Public Works and Safety.
Said notice shall be effective upon publication.
      (2)   Notice of mandatory conservation measures or rationing shall be by
first-class United States mail, or by other door-to-door distribution to each
current user, and by electronic and print media. Said notice shall be deemed
effective at the conclusion of door-to-door distribution, or at 12:00 noon on
the third day after depositing same in the United States mail.
(Prior Code, § 50.24) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   All persons, firms or corporations requesting water service for
residential use shall deposit the sum of $25 with the Clerk-Treasurer for every
single residential unit to be served or for each meter to be installed for
residential water purposes.
   (B)   All persons, firms or corporations requesting water service for
commercial use (including multiple dwellings and apartments unless each unit is
metered individually) shall deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city an
amount equal to the estimated cost of water to be used for a two-month period,
all to be determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety or the
Superintendent of the Waterworks Department.
   (C)   A deposit made by any person, firm or corporation shall be made prior
to the giving of any water service by the city and the deposit shall be
retained by the Clerk-Treasurer and used by him or her to pay any charge for
water service rendered a user which may become delinquent.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation vacating premises without paying all
water rents and charges in full to the time of the vacation, or any person,
firm or corporation having its water service discontinued for the non-payment
of water rents and charges shall not thereafter be supplied with water through
any service until all back water rents and charges are paid and the deposit in
the above amounts made in full to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) (Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
§ 50.31 REFUND OF DEPOSITS.
    The Clerk-Treasurer shall direct the utility office to return to any person
owning and occupying a single-family residence the deposit made as a
prerequisite for water purposes, without interest; provided:
   (A)   A request is made to the utility office by the owner occupying a
single-family residence; and
   (B)   The refund is approved by the Clerk-Treasurer and there have been 24
months of continuous on-time payments or the customer's final account balance
has been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 50.26) (Ord. G-17-70, passed 8-11-1970; Ord. G-84-26, passed 12-
11-1984; Ord. G-18-12, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 50.32 GRANTING OF SERVICE TO USERS OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall be authorized to tap into any
water line or main of the city without obtaining the written approval of the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall be permitted to install any water
line or main and connect it to the water lines or mains of the city without
obtaining from the Board of Public Works and Safety written approval that the
lines and mains have been or will be constructed and installed in accordance
with standards adopted or recommended by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   No extension of water facilities and services shall be made by the
city, nor shall the city allow an extension to be made to any territory outside
the present city limits, until a written agreement has been duly and properly
executed by and between the person, firm, corporation, land developer, land
owner or user and the Board of Public Works and Safety, and ratified and
confirmed by the Common Council.
      (1)   The agreement shall be entitled “An Agreement for Water Utility”.
      (2)   The agreement shall contain, in addition to other matters, a legal
description of the territory to be served by the facilities and shall provide
that the person or persons, firm, corporation, land developer, land owner or
owners, or user or users, for itself or themselves, his, her, its or their
heirs, assigns and transferees, agree that the city shall at any time after the
execution of the agreement have the right at its discretion to annex the
described territory to the city.
   (D)   The agreement shall contain the further provision that the person,
firm, corporation, land developer, land owner or user, his, her, their and its
heirs, assigns, transferees or successors in interest conclusively and
absolutely waive and release any right any of them may have had, may now have
or may in the future have to remonstrate against or otherwise in any manner
object to, interfere with or oppose any present or future annexation by the
city of the territory described in the agreement.
   (E)   The agreement shall be recorded by the person, firm, corporation, land
developer, land owner, or user in the Recorder’s office of the county and no
water service shall be rendered by the city or made available in any manner to
the territory until proof of the recording of the agreement has been furnished
to the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.27) (Ord. G-13-78, passed 7-22-1978) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 WELL WATER SERVICE.
   This section applies to properties where water service is supplied by a well
and wastewater for the property is discharged in the city’s sewer. Upon the
establishment of a new connection to the city’s sewer, or upon the transfer of
an account or establishment of a new account for an existing connection with
unmetered sewer service, a water meter must shall be installed at the expense
of the property owner to meter the usage of the well water. The owner of the
property shall not use the city’s sewage works until a meter has been installed
upon the well to measure the water usage.
(Res. R-07-02, passed 4-3-2007)
REMOVAL OF JURISDICTION
§ 50.45 REMOVAL OF JURISDICTION.
   The city’s waterworks system is hereby removed from the jurisdiction of the
state’s Utility Regulatory Commission for the approval of rates and charges and
of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes and other evidence of indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. G-92-5, passed 7-28-1992)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever, without the consent of the Waterworks Department by its
proper officers, unlawfully and intentionally diverts water from any pipe line
of the waterworks, or otherwise unlawfully and intentionally uses or causes to
be used without the consent of the waterworks, any water distributed by the
waterworks, as per §
50.24 of this chapter, shall, upon conviction of each offense, be punished by a
fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 50.19)
   (C)   Any user who violates any provision of §
50.29 of this chapter may be punished by fine of not more than $2,500. Each day
of violation shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to, or in the
alternative to a fine, water service may be terminated for any user who
violates §
50.29 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.24)
(Ord. 653, passed 12-1-1958; Ord. 688, passed 8-23-1961)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS AND SEWAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Rules and regulations; Board of Works authority
   
51.003   Requirements for connection to public sewers
   
51.004   Extensions of sewers outside corporate limits
   
51.005   Connections to sewerage system by certain out-of-city properties
   
51.006   Enforcement
   
51.007   Damage to city prohibited
   
51.008   Dilution
   
51.009   Accidental discharges
   
51.010   Septic tanks, privies prohibited
   
51.011   Private sewage disposal systems
   
51.012   Building sewers
   
51.013   Discharge of unpolluted water
   
51.014   Pretreatment of industrial cooling water
   
51.015   Construction of combination sewers prohibited
   
51.016   Sewer cleaning reimbursement
Permitted Commercial and Industrial Wastes
   
51.030   Prior approval for certain wastes
   
51.031   Pretreatment facilities; general
   
51.032   Pretreatment facilities; prior approval
   
51.033   Pretreatment facilities; operation
   
51.034   Categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.035   Prohibitions and limitations
   
51.036   Responsibility for obstructing or damaging sewers
Wastewater Utility Rates
   
51.045   Base rates
   
51.046   Connection charges
   
51.047   Inspection charges
   
51.048   Late charges
Control of Admissible Industrial
and Commercial Waste
   
51.050   Submission of data on industrial information
   
51.051   Confidential information
   
51.052   Control manholes
   
51.053   Grease and sand traps
   
51.054   Waste sampling
   
51.055   Waste analysis procedures and charges
   
51.056   Use of representative analysis
Service Charges Based on Water Usage
   
51.070   Water obtained from city’s water utility
   
51.071   Water obtained from other sources
   
51.072   Exempt water; general
   
51.073   Metering of sewage
   
51.074   Summer sewage discount
   
51.075   Fine schedule
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the “The Clean
Water Act”, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 466, as referred to in I.C. 13-1-4-1.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state and/or local) contained in the ordinance and
considered to be the more restrictive with which non-domestic users shall be
required to comply.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of dissolved oxygen, in
milligrams per liter, required during the stabilization of the decomposable
organic matter by aerobic biochemical action of sewage, sewage effluent,
polluted waters or industrial wastes under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system that receives the discharge from soil, waste or other
drainage pipes inside walls of the building and conveys it to a point outside
the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN CONNECTION. The point where the building (or
house) sewer is connected to the building drain at a location approximately
three feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) SEWER. The pipe which is connected to the building (or
house) drain at a point three feet outside the foundation wall of the building
and which conveys the building’s discharge from that point to the public sewer
or the place of disposal.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) SEWER CONNECTION. The point where the building sewer is
connected to the public sewer. This connection to the public sewer may be
accomplished as follows.
      (1)   Where a tap-in connection is employed, the point of connection
shall be where the end of the building sewer meets the inside face of the
sewage system and the tapping “saddle and/or joint” shall be considered part of
the building sewer.
      (2)   Where fittings (Ts or Ys) are employed, the connection shall be
where the end of the first pipe meets the end of the fitting and the said T or
Y fitting shall be considered a part of the building sewer.
   BULK WASTE. Any containerized solid, liquid or gaseous substance discarded
or to be discarded as worthless, defective or of no use to the person
discarding said substance.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of oxygen equivalent to that portion
of the organic matter in a sample of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters
or industrial wastes that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical
oxidant. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   CITY. The City of New Haven, Allen County, Indiana.
   CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
      (1)   DOMESTIC CLASS USER. A user discharging only “normal domestic
sewage”, as herein defined, into the system.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL CLASS USER. A user falling within Division G of the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, United States Office of Management
and Budget as currently amended and supplemented. A copy is on file in the
office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL CLASS USER. A user falling within Division A, B, D, E or
I of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, United States Office of
Management and Budget, as currently amended and supplemented. A user described
in the divisions listed herein may be excluded if it is determined, by the
city, that such user will introduce primarily segregated domestic waste or
waste from sanitary conveniences. Users not listed therein may be included in
this class of customers because of the production of excess strength of waste
or toxics in excess of limits described hereinafter.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. City of Fort Wayne.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, under one roof used primarily as
the abode of one or more persons, but not including hotels, motels, lodging or
boarding houses or tourist homes.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen circumstance or combination of circumstances that
may cause an eminent endangerment to the health and/or welfare of persons, the
environment or which may interfere with the operation of the sewer collection
system or the water pollution control plant.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GROUND GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally prevailing
the public sewers, with no particle being greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   GREYWATER. All wastewater generated in households or office buildings that
does not contain fecal contamination. Sources of GREYWATER include sinks,
showers, baths, clothes washing machines, dishwashers or water softeners.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business operation or process from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource carried on by any person.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   MAJOR INDUSTRIAL USER. A user of the city’s sanitary sewerage system that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons of water or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow of waste greater than 5% of the flow carried by any part
of the city system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the state’s Department of Environmental Management, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the City of Fort Wayne’s
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact whether
singularly or in combination with other contributing industries, on that
treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissible.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage having an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 300 milligrams per liter, an average daily BOD
concentration of not more than 300 milligrams per liter and an average daily
phosphorus concentration of not more than ten milligrams per liter and an
average daily ammonia concentration of not more than 15 milligrams per liter.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
issued by the state’s Stream Pollution Control Board for discharges of waste
waters to navigable waters of the United States.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs direct and indirect other than
debt services including replacement costs, as defined herein, necessary to
ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing basis conforming with
federal, state or local requirements and to ensure long-term management.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, company, municipal or private
corporation, commercial establishment, association, society, institution,
enterprise, governmental agency or other legal unit or entity.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed on gram-atoms per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANTS.
      (1)   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Waste containing biochemical oxygen demand,
chemical oxygen suspended solids, phosphorus, pH and fecal conform bacterial
and ammonia.
      (2)   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastes containing pollutants that are not
“compatible pollutants”.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the sewage treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT COST. The cost, stated in current monetary values, as an
operating cost which represents and measures the day-to-day consumption and
attrition of physical assets in rendering service to users.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings, apartment houses, condominiums, motels, hotels, lodging or boarding
houses, office buildings, factories or institutions free from storm waters,
service waters and industrial wastes.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewerage system for wastes which do not exceed in strength the concentration
values above which a strength-of-waste surcharge will be made.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT. The City of Fort
Wayne’s arrangement of devices, structures and equipment used for treating and
disposing of sewage and sludge.
   SEWAGE UTILITY. All facilities and systems for collecting, transporting and
pumping of sewage, including the sewerage collection system.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage and other waste liquids as
differentiated below.
      (1)   COMBINED OR COMBINATION SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface
and ground water runoff as well as sewage.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer to the use of which all owners of abutting
property have equal rights and is controlled and maintained by the city or
other public authority.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and to which
storm, surface, ground waters and unpolluted industrial waste water are not
intentionally admitted.
      (4)   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage, but excludes sanitary sewage.
   SEWER ENGINEER. The city’s Director of Engineering or his duly-authorized
representative.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of sewers and appurtenances used for
collecting, transporting and pumping sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Water Works Association and the
Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STRENGTH-OF-WASTE SURCHARGE. The additional charge for sewage service
collected from users discharging sewage into the system having a strength
measurement in excess of the limits imposed by the provisions of this chapter.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utility Superintendent of the municipal works of the
city or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration is expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations are made in accordance with procedures set
forth in Standard Methods.
   WASTE SURVEILLANCE CHARGE. A monthly charge collected from users, qualifying
as industrial or commercial class users, to defray the cost of evaluating the
user’s waste by metering, sampling, laboratory analysis and/or other methods
deemed necessary. Said charges are set forth in this chapter.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017; Ord. G-18-12, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 51.002 RULES AND REGULATIONS; BOARD OF WORKS AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Public Works of the city shall, in accordance with the statutes
of the state and subject to the provisions and requirements of this chapter,
make and enforce appropriate rules and regulations for the safe, economical and
efficient management and operation of the city’s sewerage system, for the
construction and use of sewers, building sewers, appurtenances and connections
to the sewerage system; for the regulations, collection and refunding of rates
and charges for sewerage service; and for the implementation of the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.003 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either
directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been
obtained from the city and until the owner has satisfied the obligation to pay
all assessments, reimbursements and pro rata shares of sewers extension costs
laid against that property for public sewers which serve it. A sewer tap permit
given in error shall not operate to nullify any such obligation that has been
duly recorded nor stop the city from charging and collecting such costs at any
subsequent time.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the utility may, in accordance with
policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Public Works from time to time,
permit an owner or occupant to tap or drain into a public sewer and to defer,
in whole or in part, payment of the obligation, upon the execution and delivery
to the utility of a note, mortgage, lien document or other evidence or
obligation acceptable to the utility.
   (C)   All such deferred obligations shall be considered for the purposes of
I.C. 36-9-23-31 through 36-9-23-34 to be fees assessed against real property.
   (D)   Installments of deferred obligations, including any finance charges or
interest chargeable thereon, shall be deemed to be charges for sewerage service
for the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Sewer tap permits shall be obtained from the city’s utility office and
shall be issued only to licensed sewer tap contractors, who shall pay to the
city a fee as determined, from time to time, by the Board of Works. Not later
than 48 hours after making each sewer tap and building of the sewer
installation, the tap contractor or property owner shall notify the utility
office of such connections so that an inspection may be made by the utility
prior to backfilling the said sewer installation.
   (F)   No person or user, shall construct or maintain a sewer connection,
lateral, cleanout, or cleanout cap that allows the introduction of surface or
ground water into the public sewerage system. Any sewer connection, lateral,
cleanout, or cap which allows the introduction of surface or ground water into
the public sewerage system shall be repaired or replaced. All sewer connection
and lateral repair and replacement work shall comply with local plumbing codes
and conform to the city’s standards and specifications as adopted by the Board
of Public Works and Safety unless otherwise expressly regulated by this
chapter.
   (G)   (1)   No person or user shall connect or allow any source of surface
runoff, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, condensation or other
clear water to flow directly or indirectly to a sanitary sewer of the city.
Typical prohibited connections include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Gutters or downspouts;
         (b)   Sump pumps drains;
         (c)   Storm inlets or drains;
         (d)   Footing or perimeter drains;
         (e)   Trench drains;
         (f)   Field tile drains;
         (g)   Air conditioning condensate drains; and
         (h)   Swimming pool drains.
      (2)   For customers with connections from gutters, downspouts, or sump
pumps to the sanitary sewer, those connections shall be allowed only for
connections existing at the time of this chapter and only so long as the
customer has no means to discharge to the surface, as determined by the
Engineering Department.
   (H)   All such discharges shall be directed to either a storm water
retention pond, storm water swale or ditch, storm sewer inlet or pipe that will
convey the flows to a waterway. The city shall approve the discharge location
and inspect all connections to storm inlets and pipes. When the aforementioned
outlets are not available for discharge, the discharge may be to the ground
surface only if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The point of discharge shall be a minimum of three feet from the
foundation wall and five feet from the property line. The pipe must terminate
no less than ten feet from an impervious surface to promote infiltration into
the ground.
      (2)   The discharge must flow parallel to or away from the nearest
property line and must not flow onto an adjacent property.
      (3)   The discharge water shall not create an icy or wet condition on any
pedestrian walkway, sidewalk, street or alley.
   (I)   The discharge of greywater or wastewater must be made to the sanitary
sewer. Customers having sump pumps that discharge combined greywater and
wastewater with clear water to the sanitary sewer shall be subject to a minimum
monthly fee to cover the additional cost for treating the clear water flows
that are being introduced to the sanitary sewer system by the sump pump
connection. The amount of the fee shall be $52.65.
   (J)   Sump pumps and sump pump drains are to be installed in accordance with
local plumbing codes. Sump pumps must have rigid discharge piping that
discharge outside of the building above the finished grade and shall have an
air gap before discharging into a buried storm drain pipe. Sump pump discharge
piping systems shall not have any piping, valves or quick connections that can
be used to reconnect or redirect the discharge to the sanitary sewer system.
   (K)   (1)   Existing prohibited connections which discharge clear water to
the sanitary sewer shall be redirected to discharge to an acceptable storm
water collection or conveyance system or to the surface as provided in this
chapter.
      (2)   Property owners may be required to provide adequate proof that
their connections comply with the requirements of this chapter either by
certification of a licensed plumber or engineer as provided in this chapter or
by allowing the city to conduct inspection or re-inspection of storm and
wastewater drainage systems. Such certification and/or inspections shall be
required when and as needed for the city to comply with the state and federal
CSO Long Term Control Regulations. Such inspections will also be required on
all properties when there is a change of ownership prior to the activation or
transfer of a water service account.
   (L)   The Board of Public Works shall have authority to require an owner of
any property to repair or replace a faulty connection or damaged or
deteriorating sewer lateral, cleanout, or cap, and to redirect or disconnect
any prohibited connection to the city’s sanitary sewer system.
   (M)   A new connection may be made to a city sewer or sewers only if
adequate capacity exists to transmit and treat the new waste.
   (N)   At such time as the city installs a sanitary sewer or separates
existing combination sewers into a sanitary sewer and a storm sewer, the
property owner shall be required to make separate connections to the sanitary
sewer for sanitary flows and to the storm sewer for inflow-clear water flows.
Property owners shall have a period of 90 days to comply with this requirement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Director of Engineering’s office may, in
accordance with policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Works, extend
the time for compliance with this division for a period of up to 180 days upon
written application from a property owner filed prior to the expiration of the
90-day period.
   (O)   (1)   All work of any nature (including, without limitation,
connections, extensions, alterations or replacements) performed on any sanitary
or storm sewer shall conform to the city’s standards and specifications as
adopted by the Board of Public Works and Safety unless otherwise expressly
regulated by this chapter.
      (2)   The requirement for a separate storm sewer connection will be
waived where the property owner can establish to the satisfaction of the
Director of Engineering’s office that there is no contribution of storm,
surface or groundwater to the sanitary sewer system by the property or any
activity thereon. The decision of the Director of Engineering may be appealed
by petition to the Board of works submitted within 30 days.
   (P)   No person shall make use of a sewer tap or backfill or otherwise
conceal a connection to a sewer installation unless and until the same has been
inspected and approved by the utility. In addition to all other remedies, the
utility may cause the said installation of sewer tap to be excavated and
exposed, may terminate the connection, and may require the owner or occupant to
pay or reimburse the utility for its costs and expenses in such excavation,
exposure, termination, reconnection and restoration. Such costs and expenses
shall be considered as charges for sewerage treatment services and may be
collected in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23-31 through 36-9-23-
34 and this chapter.
   (Q)   No person or user shall dump or dispose of junk, rubbish, trash,
garbage, yard waste, household waste, industrial waste, non-biodegradable
wipes, underwear, diapers, sanitary napkins, tampons, or debris in a storm
inlet, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, ditch, retention pond, or receiving system.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. passed 5-3-2004;Ord.
G-01-8, passed 7-10-2001; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. passed 3-20-2018)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 EXTENSIONS OF SEWERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The installation, construction or extension of sanitary sewers by private
developers or by the city outside the corporate limits of the city and the
connection of said sanitary sewers into the city’s sewage system from, by, to
or for properties located outside such limits is prohibited, except with the
approval of the Board of Public Works by duly enacted resolution; provided
that, a resolution ratifying an agreement and/or contract for such construction
and connection shall be deemed to constitute such approval. Such approval may
be conditioned an executed annexation waiver agreement prior to ratification.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.005 CONNECTIONS TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM BY CERTAIN OUT-OF-CITY PROPERTIES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
51.004 of this chapter, the Board of Public Works shall have the authority to
permit a property located outside the corporate limits of the city to connect
to an existing sanitary sewer which is part of the city’s sewerage system when
the property abuts, adjoins or is immediately contiguous to the street, alley
or easement in which such sewer is located; and, provided, the property owner
or occupant has complied with the requirements prescribed by §
51.003 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.006 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Board of
Public Works and Safety appointed for such purposes. Whenever said agent shall
deem it appropriate to charge a landowner with a violation(s) of this chapter,
he or she shall issue to such landowner a notice of violation and/or summons
pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5.
   (B)   Any property found to have a faulty or damaged sewer lateral, or
prohibited connection, either direct or indirect, to the sanitary sewer system
shall receive a written notice from the city that will require the property
owner to make the necessary repairs or replacements and furnish proof of the
repairs or replacements to the city.
   (C)   Upon notice of a violation, a property owner shall have 90 days to
correct the violation and submit for re-inspection. If the correction is
approved, no additional costs will be assessed to the user. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Director of Engineering’s office may, in accordance with
policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Works, extend the time for
compliance with this division for a period of up to 180 days upon written
application from a property owner filed prior to the expiration of the 90-day
period.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Public works shall have the authority to require
any residential property owner to provide certification from a licensed plumber
or engineer that they have no illegal or improper connections to the sanitary
sewer. Alternatively, the city will provide such inspections free of charge at
the option of the owner. The Board of Public Works and Safety may not require
certification more frequently than on an annual basis. The Board of Public
Works and Safety shall notify the owner of the request for the certification at
which time the owner shall have 90 days to obtain it. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Director of Engineering’s office may, in accordance with
policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Works, extend the time for
compliance with this division for a period of up to 180 days upon written
application from a property owner filed prior to the expiration of the 90-day
period.
      (2)   Any residential property owner who does not provide the
certification within 90 days or allow the city to inspect the connections shall
be subject to a minimum monthly fee to cover the cost of treating clear water
flows that are or could be introduced into the sanitary sewer system by a
faulty sewer lateral or prohibited connection. Any commercial property owner
who does not provide the certification or does not allow inspection by the
city, or refuses to repair or replace a faulty sewer lateral or correct a
prohibited connection shall be subject to a minimum monthly fee to cover the
cost of treating clear water flows that are, or could be, introduced into the
sanitary sewer system by the faulty sewer lateral or prohibited connection. The
fees for treating the clear water will be in addition to all other sanitary
sewer charges and will be added to the user’s utility bill until the faulty
sewer lateral or connection has been repaired or replaced, and all prohibited
connections eliminated and the property owner provides certification from a
licensed plumber or engineer to that effect. The amount of the fee shall be
established by the Board of Works and maintained in a fee schedule which the
Board of Works may from time to time amend.
   (E)   The Board of Public Works shall have the ability to grant a hardship
exemption to a residential property owner who discharges clear water into the
sanitary sewer system. The homeowner seeking a hardship exemption must make
application to the Board of Public Works and clearly identify the property in
which the waiver is being requested, the names of all owners and applicants who
are requesting the exemption and a detailed description of the circumstances
justifying the request. The Board of Works shall hear the matter at its next
schedule hearing. Upon a showing of undue hardship, the Board of Works may
reduce the monthly fee to cover the cost for treating the clear water flows
that are being or could be introduced to the sanitary sewer system by the
faulty sewer lateral or prohibited connection. The fee will be in addition to
all other sanitary sewer user charges and will be added to the property owner’s
bill until the property has been inspected and the faulty sewer lateral has
been repaired or replaced and all prohibited connections have been eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord.
G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 51.007 DAMAGE TO CITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person, firm or corporation to
maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, remove, deface or
tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the city
sewage system.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 DILUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to increase the use
of potable water or process water in any way, or mix separate wastestreams for
the purpose of diluting a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with applicable standards.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord.
G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each discharger must provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited or regulated materials or substances to sewers of the city. Where
necessary, procedures and facilities to prevent the accidental discharge of
prohibited materials must be provided and maintained at the discharger’s
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the city for review and be approved by
the city before construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans
and operating procedures by the city shall not relieve the discharger from
responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet applicable federal,
state and local requirements.
   (B)   Dischargers shall notify the Superintendent, or his or her
representative, immediately when an accidental discharge occurs. A written
report shall be submitted within five days of the incident. The notification
must include the location of the discharge, date and time of occurrence, type
of waste, concentration, volume and corrective actions taken. Any industrial
user who discharges prohibited materials will be liable for any expense,
including loss or damage to the water pollution control utility sewerage system
in addition to the amount of any fines imposed upon the city under state or
federal law.
   (C)   Signs must be permanently posted in conspicuous places on the
discharger’s premises, advising employees whom to call in the event of an
accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause or
discover such a discharge as to the emergency notification procedures.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord.
G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.010 SEPTIC TANKS, PRIVIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect these
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice
to do so. However, a public sewer must be within 300 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.011 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.031 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city, at the time the
application is filed. The cost for the permit and inspection shall be $25.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is approved and completed to the satisfaction
of the County Board of Health and the specifications and requirement for such
system shall be constructed in accordance with rules promulgated by the County
Board of Health as they may be updated and amended from time to time.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout shall comply with all
recommendations of the state’s Board of Health and shall comply with all
applicable County Board of Health regulations.
   (E)   When a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer in compliance with this subchapter, and any septic tank, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 90 days and the private sewer disposal system
shall be abandoned in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.2-86, as it may be from
time to time amended. The owner shall also obtain a Fort Wayne/Allen County
Board of Health onsite sewage system abandonment permit.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord.
G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.012 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   A sewer tap permit must be obtained from the city’s Public Works
Department prior to the construction of any building sewer connection.
   (B)   A homeowner may install his or her own service line without posting a
bond; however, a contractor must have a building sewer bond with the city.
   (C)   No roof drains, foundations drains or any other source of rain or
surface run-off water will be permitted to be connected to the sanitary sewers.
   (D)   All tap connections and building sewer installations must be inspected
and approved by the Engineering Department prior to backfilling the excavation.
   (E)   Tap permits shall be obtained at least 24 hours prior to construction.
The contractor shall notify the city’s inspector at least four hours prior to
the required building sewer inspection.
   (F)   The size of the building sewer shall be six inches in diameter and
shall be connected to the house or building sewer no greater than three feet
from the structure.
   (G)   The various sewer pipes allowed are as follows:
 
Type of Pipe Spec         ASTM Pipe Spec ASTM Joint
PVC (poly vinyl chloride) D-3034/SDR35   D-1869
NOTE TO TABLE:
Any necessary adapters may be obtained by the property owner.
 
   (H)   The sewer service line shall be bedded its entire length with a
granular material, specifically #5, #8 or #9 crushed limestone.
   (I)   An outside cleanout must be placed on the building sewer line at or
near the building being serviced. A second outside cleanout must be installed
if the sewer line exceeds 150 feet.
   (J)   The minimum slope for building sewers shall not be less than one-
eighth inch per foot. A uniform slope and alignment shall be maintained.
   (K)   Building sewers should have minimum of 24 inches of cover.
   (L)   Any septic tank must be pumped and filled with clean sand, gravel or
other similar material in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.2-86, as it may be
from time to time amended. The homeowner shall also obtain a Fort Wayne/Allen
County Board of Health onsite sewage system abandonment permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.13) (Ord. G-01-8, passed 7-10-2001; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.013 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling or condensing systems shall
be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available. Where a storm sewer is
not available, discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the city and by
the state. Where a storm sewer or natural sewer is not available, unpolluted
water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer upon written approval by the city.
Such discharges to the sanitary sewer shall be subject to a monthly fee. The
amount of the fee shall be $10 per 10,000 square feet (commercial and
industrial customers only). Notwithstanding the foregoing, building code
compliant residential central air conditioning systems shall be excluded from
this section.
(Prior Code, § 51.14) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord.
G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.014 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.013 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.015 CONSTRUCTION OF COMBINATION SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   No new combination sewers shall be constructed.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. G-01-8, passed 7-10-2001; Ord. passed 5-3-2004;
Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 SEWER CLEANING REIMBURSEMENT.
   The city shall reimburse the cost of private cleaning or maintaining a sewer
line only if such work is authorized in advance by the Superintendent of Public
Utilities.
(Res. R-13-01, passed 1-2-2013)
PERMITTED COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 51.030 PRIOR APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN WASTES.
   Review and acceptance by the control authority shall be obtained prior to
the discharge into the public sewers by any commercial or industrial class
customers of sewage whose wastes have:
   (A)   Either a BOD content greater than 300 milligrams per liter or a COD
greater than 600 milligrams per liter;
   (B)   A suspended solids content greater than 300 milligrams per liter;
   (C)   A phosphorus content greater than ten milligrams per liter;
   (D)   An ammonia content greater than 15 milligrams per liter; or
   (E)   Other contaminants which from either nature or quantity will:
      (1)   Interfere with the operations of any portion of the sewage utility;
      (2)   Pass through the treatment works or otherwise be incompatible with
such works; and/or
      (3)   Prevent the reclamation and/or recycling of municipal wastewaters
or sludge.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.031 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES; GENERAL.
   When, after making such a review, the control authority concludes that,
before the owner discharges waste into the public sewers, the owner must modify
or eliminate those constituents which would be harmful to the structures,
processes or operations of any portion of the sewage utility or injurious to
health, then that owner shall either modify the wastes at the point of origin
or shall provide and operate, at owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment
and processing facilities as may be deemed necessary to render owner’s waste
acceptable for admission into the public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.032 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES; PRIOR APPROVAL.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment or processing facilities shall be submitted to
the control authority for examination and approval. Construction of such
facilities shall not begin until the owner has been given written approval.
Such approval shall not exempt the person from the obligation to make further
reasonable adaptations of such facilities when such adaptations prove necessary
to secure the results of acceptable waste concentrations desired. The approval
of proposed facilities and/or equipment will function in the manner that is
described by their constructor or manufacturer, nor shall it relieve an owner,
firm or corporation of the responsibility of enlarging or otherwise modifying
such facilities to accomplish the intended purpose.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES; OPERATION.
   (A)   Where such preliminary treatment facilities are provided, they shall
be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating condition by
the person at his or her own expense and shall be subject to periodic
inspection by the control authority.
   (B)   The user shall maintain suitable operating records which shall be open
to inspection by the control authority, and shall submit to the control
authority such monthly summary reports of the character of the influent and
effluent as the control authority may require.
   (C)   All records and reports shall be retained for a minimum of three
years.
   (D)   All industry, whether categorical or non- categorical industry, shall
comply with all requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Prior Code, § 51.24) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.034 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   As part of this chapter, the city shall enforce all federal categorical
pretreatment standards upon the categorical industries within the service area.
(Prior Code, § 51.25) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.035 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no owner shall discharge or cause or
permit to be discharged into the public sewer any of the following described
substances, wastes or waters:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature greater than 140°F or
causing the temperature at the influent to POTW to exceed 104°F;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 100 milligrams per liter
of grease, oils, fats and waxes;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil or any other
flammable or explosive solid, liquid or gas;
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either alone or
by interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life, or of preventing entry into the sewer for their maintenance or
repair;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly pretreated and reduced;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, wood, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar plastics, paunch, manure, butchers offal, non-
biodegradable sanitary wipes, underwear, diapers, sanitary napkins, tampons or
any other solid or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the
flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewerage
system or the sewage treatment plant;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than
10.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
posing hazards to the structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage utility;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic substances, as defined under
§ 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, in sufficient quantity to interfere
with the biological process of the City of Fort Wayne’s Sewage Treatment Plant,
or that will pass through the plant into the receiving stream in amounts
exceeding the standards set by federal, interstate, state or other competent
authority having jurisdiction, or will prevent the disposal of the sludges by
the plant in accordance with § 405 of said Act;
      (10)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes, without a special permit. The
radioactive isotopes of I 131 and P 32 used in hospitals are not prohibited, if
they are properly diluted before being discharged into the sewerage system, as
further defined in the general rules and regulations;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes that for a duration of 15 minutes or more
have a concentration of more than five times the average concentration of BOD
or suspended solids of the user’s sewage discharged during a 24-hour period of
normal operation;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual provisions, attention and expense would be required
to handle such materials at the City of Fort Wayne’s Sewage Treatment Plant,
the City of New Haven’s pumping stations or other facilities;
      (13)   Any waters or wastes containing incompatible pollutants as herein
described;
      (14)   Any waters or wastes containing any toxic substances in quantities
that are sufficient to interfere with the biochemical processes of the City of
Fort Wayne’s Sewage Treatment Plant, that will pass through the plant into
receiving waters, or accumulate in the sludges in an amount exceeding the
limitations set forth by any federal, state, interstate or local authority,
whichever is more stringent. Specifically excluded are any waters or wastes
containing toxic ion, compounds, or substances in concentrations or amounts
exceeding the limitations, set forth by the Board of Public Works and published
in the General Rules and Regulations;
      (15)   Any bulk waste, either industrial or domestic, without prior
written approval of the Superintendent; and/or
      (16)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed by the
treatment process such as, but not limited to, dye waste and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (B)   (1)   The city reserves the right to refuse, deny or revoke the
connections of any user in the event the sewage service requirements of the
users could or would impose an excessive burden on the utility or in the event
the user is or has been in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The city further reserves the right, in the event of any emergency,
to restrict the allowable discharge received from any or all users of the
sewage system during the time of such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SEWERS.
   If the public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because of a discharge of
a prohibited substance, the person or persons responsible for such discharge
shall be liable for any expense incurred by the city, which may be added to,
and collected in the same fashion as, the sewage bill otherwise owing by such
person.
(Prior Code, § 51.27) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
WASTEWATER UTILITY RATES
§ 51.045 BASE RATES.
   The base rates for wastewater and sewage which will be in full force and
effect from and after passage and signing by the Mayor and legal publication of
this subchapter, are as follows:
Base Rate (per meter)
3/4" water meter           $43.28
1" water meter             $51.29
1-1/2" water meter         $167.71
2" water meter             $315.25
3" water meter             $758.13
4" water meter             $1,380.20
6" water meter             $3,130.45
Metered Rate
Per 1,000 gallons of usage $9.78
Unmetered - Sewer Rate Only
Monthly flat rate          $105.37
 
(Ord. G-20-05, passed 4-7-2020; Ord. G-21-10, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. G-22-13,
passed 6-7-2022; Ord. G-23-03, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. G-24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 51.046 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   The connection charges for wastewater and sewage which will be in full force
and effect from and after passage and signing by the Mayor and legal
publication of this subchapter, are as follows:
Type of       Unit Type Cost* (Inside City Cost** (Outside City Percentage
Establishment           Limits)            Limits)              Difference
Type of         Unit Type       Cost* (Inside   Cost** (Outside Percentage
Establishment                   City Limits)    City Limits)    Difference
Single Family   Per unit        $1,500          $1,800          20%
Residential
                                $1,500 (first   $1,800          20% for initial
Multi-Family    Per unit        unit) for each  $360 each       unit tap +
Residential                     tap, $300 (each additional      additional tap
                                additional tap)                 fee
Airport         Per employee    $27.50 + $8.75  $33 + $10.50    25% + per
                                per passenger                   passenger fee
Assembly/dance  Per rated
halls without   seating         $3.75           $4.50           20%
food service    capacity
Assembly/dance  Per rated
halls with food seating         $7.50           $9              20%
service         capacity
Bars & taverns  Per rated
without food    seating         $18.75          $22.50          20%
service         capacity
Beauty/barber   Per styling     $1,250          $1,500          20%
salon           chair
Bowling alley
without food    Per lane        $125            $150            20%
service
Bowling alley
with food       Per lane        $213.75         $256.50         20%
service
Church without  Per rated
food service    seating         $3.75           $4.50           20%
                capacity
Church with     Per rated
food service    seating         $7.50           $9              20%
                capacity
Day care        Per person
facility        (includes staff $36.25          $43.50          20%
                and children)
Dentist office  Per chair +     $356.25         $427.50         20%
                per employee    $133.75         $160.50
Doctor's office Per employee    $133.75         $160.50         20%
Factories (1,   Per employee    $55             $66             20%
3)
Factory         Per employee    $8.75           $10.50          20%
cafeteria
Food service    Per rated
operation -     seating         $62.50          $75             20%
rest.           capacity
Food service    Per rated
operation -     seating         $88.75          $106.50         20%
rest.           capacity
(24-hr.)
Food service    Per rated
operation -     seating         $62.50          $75             20%
(bar/tavern)    capacity
Hospitals (2)   Per patient bed $362.50         $435            20%
Institutions    Per person per  $181.25         $217.50         20%
(resident) (2)  rated capacity
Laundry (coin-  Per washing     $543.75         $652            20%
operated)       machine
Mental health   Per rated
facility        patient         $175            $210            20%
                capacity
Mobile home     Per trailer     $225            $270            20%
parks           space
Motel/hotel     Per room        $108.75         $130.50         20%
Municipalities  Per employee    $181.25         $217.50         20%
Offices (1)     Per employee    $37.50          $45             20%
without showers
Offices (1)     Per employee    $62.50          $75             20%
with showers
Outpatient      Per rated
surgical center patient         $93.75          $112.50         20%
                capacity
Rest homes/     Per rated
nursing home    resident        $175            $210            20%
                capacity
School boarding Per staff &     $136.25         $163.50         20%
                students
Schools (day)   Per staff &     $18.75          $22.50          20%
(1, 4, 5)       students
Schools         Per staff &     $27.50          $33             20%
(elementary)    students
Schools (high)  Per staff &     $43.75          $52.50          20%
                students
Service         Per facility +
station/        food service    $1,787.50       $2,145          20%
convenience     operations
mart
Service
stations        Per restroom    $718.75         $862.50         20%
(vehicular)
Shopping        Per s.f. floor  $0.19           $0.22           20%
centers (1)     space
Swimming pools  Per rated       $18.75          $22.50          20%
                person capacity
Theater, movie  Per seating     $8.75           $10.50          20%
                capacity
                Per employee +
                Per cage +      $133.75         $160.50         20%
                Per inside run  $8.75           $10.50          20%
Veterinary      +               $17.50          $21             20%
offices/kennels Per outside run $35             $42             20%
                +               $87.50          $105            20%
                Per surgical
                room
*In no case shall any total connection charge be less than       
$1,250 for inside city limits.
**In no case shall any total connection charge be less than      
$1,500 for outside city limits.
Key
1.   Excluding restaurant or cafeteria
2.   Food service wastes included                             
3.   No industrial process waste included
4.   Excluding showers
5.   No gym
 
(Ord. G-20-05, passed 4-7-2020; Ord. G-23-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 51.047 INSPECTION CHARGES.
   The inspection charges for wastewater and sewage which will in full force
and effect from and after passage and signing by the Mayor and legal
publication of this subchapter, are as follows:
 
Residential             $50
Commercial & industrial $100
 
(Ord. G-20-05, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 51.048 LATE CHARGES.
   There shall be a late fee of 10% of the invoice amount added to any rate or
connection charge not paid within 15 days after the date due.
(Ord. G-20-05, passed 4-7-2020)
CONTROL OF ADMISSIBLE INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTE
§ 51.050 SUBMISSION OF DATA ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Any owner who discharges industrial waste into the city’s sewerage
system either directly or indirectly shall forthwith fill out and file an
industrial waste questionnaire, the form for which will be furnished by the
city in which he or she shall set out the quantity and characteristics of the
wastes discharged into the city’s sewerage system. Any owner desiring to
establish a new connection to the public sewer or to establish a new account
with utility for the purpose of discharging industrial or commercial waste
shall first fill out and file such a questionnaire which shall set out the
actual or predicted data relating to the quantity and characteristics of the
wastes to be discharged.
   (B)   Any industry who changes or proposes to change manufacturing or
pretreatment processes shall first notify the control authority, in writing,
and submit a new or revised industrial waste questionnaire for review by the
control authority.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification, in any application, report or other document, required by the
municipal ordinance or other applicable regulations, shall, upon conviction, be
punished by the imposition of a civil penalty as required by local and/or state
statutes.
   (D)   When special circumstances render it an unreasonable burden to comply
with the time schedule determined by the utility for the correction of any
industrial waste discharge problem, an extension of time, not to exceed 90
days, may be granted by the control authority upon presentation in writing of
an application for such relief.
(Prior Code, § 51.31) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.051 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data furnished to the control authority by a discharger
shall be made available to the public or other governmental agencies without
restriction unless the discharger specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate as per 40 C.F.R. § 2.203 that the release of such information would
divulge information, methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets, or proprietary information of the discharger. However, under no
circumstances may the volume, nor the components, of the discharge be
considered confidential. All requests, by the discharger, for confidentiality
of information shall be made in accordance with and be governed by the
provisions of 40 C.F.R. part 2.
(Prior Code, § 51.32) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.052 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   Any owner who discharges or may discharge industrial wastes into
public sewer via any means such as floor drains, sinks, catch basins or the
like, is required to construct and maintain, at his or her own expense, one or
more control manholes, at a specified location or locations, to facilitate the
observation, measurement and sampling of owner’s waste.
   (B)   Such manholes shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications from time to time added by the Board of Works.
   (C)   The Board may also require the person to install and maintain in any
such manhole, at said person’s expense, an approved volume-measuring device.
Plans and/or shop drawings for the installation of control manholes and related
equipment must be approved by the Director of Engineering before construction.
(Prior Code, § 51.33) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 GREASE AND SAND TRAPS.
   Whenever the city’s Board of Works, through the Director of Engineering or
Superintendent of Public Works, determines that interceptors or traps are
needed to protect the sewerage collection system or the City of Fort Wayne’s
Sewage Treatment Plant from grease, oil, sand or similar substances occurring
in the user’s sewage and so notifies the user, then such traps shall be
promptly installed by the user, at the user’s expense, and shall be so
maintained by the user that none of such substances can be carried over into
the public sewers. All traps or interceptors shall meet the city’s standards as
to construction, location and installation.
(Prior Code, § 51.34) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 WASTE SAMPLING.
   (A)   (1)   Any industrial user shall be subject to, and shall cooperate in,
periodic inspection by the control authority for the purpose of determining
compliance limits, solvent management plans or spill prevention plans,
identifying dilution streams or to categorize regulated processes.
      (2)   These inspections may consist of monitoring waste streams,
inspection of the premises, inspection and/or copying of production records,
pretreatment operating records and other records or data deemed necessary by
the inspector for the purposes stated above.
   (B)   (1)   The installation, operation and maintenance of the sampling
facilities shall be the responsibility of the owner discharging the wastes and
shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Access to the sampling facilities shall be granted, at all times,
to the control authority.
   (C)   Where an owner’s operations have security measures in force which
require identification and clearance before entry onto property is granted,
such owner(s) shall make the necessary arrangements with their security
personnel that upon showing of proper identification, personnel from the
control authority shall be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose
of observing or monitoring of wastes being discharged at a given point or
points or that owner(s) shall install suitable control manholes outside of the
security control area(s) which at all times will be immediately available to
the control authority.
(Prior Code, § 51.35) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.055 WASTE ANALYSIS PROCEDURES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Alternate methods for certain analyses of industrial wastes may be
used subject to mutual agreement between the control authority and the user.
   (B)   In the event of a dispute between the control authority and the user
as to the characteristics, strength, toxic nature or other particulars of the
sample taken and analyzed by the control authority, either party may request
that the sample in dispute be analyzed by a mutually acceptable referee who
charges shall be paid by the party requesting the analysis. Analyses made by
the control authority at the request of the user shall be charged to the user
according to the utility’s standard work order billing procedure.
   (C)   All such analyses shall be binding in determining the strength-of-
waste surcharge and other matters dependent upon the character and
concentration of wastes.
(Prior Code, § 51.36) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.056 USE OF REPRESENTATIVE ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Until an adequate analysis of a representative sample of user’s wastes
has been obtained, the control authority may, for the purpose of this chapter,
make a determination of the character and concentration of his or her wastes by
using data based on analyses of similar processes or data for his or her type
of business that are available from the United States Environmental Protection
Agency or from industry- recognized authoritative sources.
   (B)   This method, if selected by the control authority, shall continue at
the control authority’s pleasure or until an adequate analysis has been made.
(Prior Code, § 51.37) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
SERVICE CHARGES BASED ON
WATER USAGE
§ 51.070 WATER OBTAINED FROM CITY’S WATER UTILITY.
   The charges made for sewerage service rendered to each lot, parcel of real
estate or building having any connection with the city’s sewerage system or
otherwise discharging sewage into the system, either directly or indirectly,
shall be based upon the quantity of water presumed to enter the public sewers
after being used in or on the property, as the quantity is measured by the
water meter or meters there in use by the city’s water utility, except as
herein otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 51.41) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.071 WATER OBTAINED FROM OTHER SOURCES.
   Where the property obtains any part or all of the water used from sources
other than the city’s water utility, the owner or the tenant may be required by
the city to install and maintain at his or her own expense a meter or meters
acceptable to the city for the quantity of water obtained from these other
sources.
(Prior Code, § 51.42) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.072 EXEMPT WATER; GENERAL.
   (A)   Where a significant portion of the metered water does not and cannot
enter the sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, the person having
charge of the property may request permission from the city to install, at his
or her own expense, either an approved meter or meters to determine the
quantity of water that cannot enter the sewerage system or an approved sewage-
measuring device or devices to determine the volume of sewage that actually
enters the sewerage system, when appropriate.
   (B)   In any case, the service charge shall be based on the quantity of
water that can or actually does enter the public sewers, but in no case shall
it be less than the minimum charge for the class of users served.
(Prior Code, § 51.43) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.073 METERING OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   The city may require a person to install and maintain at his or her
own expense an approved device to measure directly the volumes of wastes
discharged to the sewerage system if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered- water consumption records.
   (B)   The city shall inspect and approve such installation and no such
service, once installed, shall be removed without the city’s approval.
(Prior Code, § 51.44) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
§ 51.074 SUMMER SEWAGE DISCOUNT.
   (A)   In order that the domestic/residential users of sewage service shall
not be penalized for sprinkling lawns, filling swimming pools, etc. done during
the months of May, June, July and August, the billing for usage of sewage
services for residential/domestic users for said months shall be based upon the
average water usage for the previous months of December, January, February and
March. In the event the average water usage for said previous months is greater
than the water usage of any said month of May, June, July or August, then the
billing for sewage services shall be computed on the actual water used in the
month for which the sewage service bill is being rendered. Domestic/residential
sewage service (as applicable to the summer sewage rate) shall apply to each
lot, parcel, real estate, or building which is occupied and used as a
residence. Said summer sewage rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or totally used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a
portion of such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate meter; and in
such case, the water usage, as registered by the water meter serving such
portion of the premises used for residential purposes, would qualify under the
summer sewage rate.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all residential users shall pay a
minimum sewage charge, which amount shall be decided annually by the City of
New Haven Utilities Department. The annual charge shall represent a fair,
minimum charge in the event the homeowner has little or no water usage in the
months of December, January, February and March due to absence on use of the
property.
(Ord. G-22-33, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 51.075 FINE SCHEDULE.
   The following fines are prescribed for this chapter:
Monthly Fine Schedule for Continuing Violations
 Fee
Monthly Fine Schedule for Continuing Violations
                                                                                 Fee
Residential service
   Sump pump connected to sewer lateral                                       $52.65
   Downspout connected to sewer lateral                                       $15.00
   Faulty or damaged sewer lateral                                            $52.65
   Faulty or broken clean out cap                                             $10.00
   Unplugged downspout tile                                                   $10.00
Commercial service
   Sump pump connected to sewer lateral                                       $52.65
                                                                                 (each)
   Downspout connected to sewer lateral (per equivalent residential unit
(“ERU”)) ERU (One ERU equals 2,534 square feet) Fine to be established based $15.00
storm water drawings in the Engineering Department
   Fine for each ERU                                                          $15.00
   A faulty or damaged sewer lateral                                          To be
                                                                                 determined
   Discharge of unpolluted water from air conditioners cooling and condensing $10.00
systems (per 10,000 square feet)
   Faulty or broke cleanout cap                                               $10.00
   Unplugged downspout tile                                                   $10.00
                                                                                 Continue
   Violation corrected by owner, but not inspected by city.                   fine based
                                                                                 on
                                                                                 schedule.
 
(Ord. G-14-5, passed 4-22-2014; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. passed 3-
20-2018; Ord. G-21-01, passed 2-2-2021)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, landowner, firm or corporation who violates or fails to comply
with any provisions of this chapter or of the rules and regulations of the
Board of Public Works pertaining thereto shall be deemed to have committed a
Class B infraction and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of up to
$1,000 per infraction as provided by I.C. 34-28-5-4. Each day that such
violation(s) or non-compliance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. G-93-5, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. G-17-4, passed 9-12-
2017)
CHAPTER 52: DOMESTIC SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Contract for domestic solid waste collection
   
52.03   Alternative disposal methods
   
52.04   Cost study
   
52.05   Description of service
   
52.06   Unacceptable materials
   
52.07   Method of disposal for domestic solid waste
   
52.08   Schedule of routes
   
52.09   Large items
   
52.10   Collection of recyclable materials by civic organizations
   
52.11   Fee for solid waste collection
   
52.12   Appeals of city decisions
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. A building or part thereof used for commercial purposes
including, but not limited to, apartment houses, mobile home parks, motels,
hotels, schools, churches, planned unit developments, civil and athletic
centers and all other property which are not dwelling units.
   CONTRACTOR. A waste disposal contractor contracted with the city for garbage
and recycling collection and disposal.
   DEBRIS. Any waste from demolition of or removal of trees, structures or fill
material, such as, but not limited to, concrete, lumber, stumps and major
branches (exceeding two inches in diameter), rocks, vehicles and their parts
and similar material.
   DOMESTIC SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, yard wastes and prunings.
   DWELLING. A structure or portion of a structure used primarily as a place of
abode for one or more persons, including multi-family structures of not more
than four dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. A structure or portion of a structure used for residential
purposes for one or more persons including multi-family structures of not more
than four dwelling units.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food waste, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. A wheel container or tote provided to each household
within the city by the city or a contractor to the city.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance defined as a hazardous material in any
city, state or federal ordinance, statute, rule or regulation.
   LARGE ITEM. An item of trash or refuse which will not fit within a garbage
container.
   MISCELLANEOUS WASTE. All other materials, including, but not limited to,
manufacturing or trade waste, human or animal waste, dead animals and similar
material.
   OWNER. A person, partnership, corporation, association, estate, trust or
other organization which holds title to a residence within the corporate
boundaries of the city.
   PICKUP LOCATION. The place specified by the Board of Public Works and Safety
for each improved lot and improved parcel of real estate within the city to
which service is available under this chapter.
   PRUNINGS. Woody wastes and branches up to two inches in diameter and less
than four feet long which can be tied into bundles (excluding Christmas trees).
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A clearly identified recycling wheel container or tote
used for the placement of discarded recyclables, provided by the city or a
contractor of the city, delivered to each household in the city.
   REFUSE. General waste materials not associated with food preparation
including, but not limited to, ash, cans, bottles, paper and other similar
material.
   USER. The occupant of each dwelling within the city, and each such use by an
occupant shall be deemed a separate USER.
   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, sod, leaves, weeds and garden and hedge
trimmings.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.02 CONTRACT FOR DOMESTIC SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized and directed to
enter into a contract, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-30-5, to provide collection,
disposal and recycling services required or permitted under the provisions of
this chapter, under such terms and conditions as the Board of Public Works and
Safety deems necessary, useful or beneficial to effectuate the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   No such contract shall be effective until after approval by the Common
Council.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.03 ALTERNATIVE DISPOSAL METHODS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from implementing
alternative methods of providing domestic solid waste disposal such as
recycling.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.04 COST STUDY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety from time to time may prepare cost
studies showing the cost of providing regular and any experimental service in
the manner provided in this chapter, including all costs of collecting
materials, any moneys saved by alternative methods of disposal of materials and
all moneys received from the sale of recyclable materials either by the city or
its contractor.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.05 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   Domestic solid waste collection service shall be provided once a week to all
dwellings within the city. The city shall not contract for collection, disposal
or recycling services to commercial units. Domestic solid waste collection as
provided in this chapter shall be mandatory for all dwellings.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.06 UNACCEPTABLE MATERIALS.
   Unacceptable materials for collection in this chapter, and except as
otherwise provided herein, shall include, but not be limited to, debris,
hazardous material and miscellaneous waste.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 METHOD OF DISPOSAL FOR DOMESTIC SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city
any domestic solid waste, except according to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner or user of a dwelling shall dispose of domestic solid waste
as follows.
      (1)   Users shall use garbage containers provided by the city’s
contractor for trash collection and disposal and shall maintain said container
in good order and repair. A user shall maintain garbage containers in
sufficient number to contain domestic solid waste accumulating on the premises
on a weekly basis.
      (2)   Containers shall be loosely packed or bagged so that the contents
discharge freely when the receptacle is inverted.
      (3)   Users shall obey any rules promulgated by the city or the
contractor for the maximum weight of each container and the maximum number of
containers which may be placed for collection each week.
      (4)   Each dwelling shall be assigned a designated day for pickup. All
domestic solid waste and recyclables shall be collected on the same day. If the
collection day falls on a recognized legal holiday, pickup will be on the day
following the holiday which is not a Sunday or recognized legal holiday.
      (5)   Garbage containers and recycling containers shall be placed at
pickup location designated by the city or its contractor. During inclement
weather, the city may instruct customers of alternate locations, if necessary.
      (6)   Garbage containers and recycling containers may be set out no
earlier than 4:00 p.m. on the day preceding collection and shall be removed no
later than 6:00 a.m. on the day following collection.
      (7)   All garbage containers and recycling containers must be stored
either inside the garage or on the side of the house at a minimum of four feet
behind the front of the house when not placed for collection.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 SCHEDULE OF ROUTES.
   The schedule of routes and days for the weekly collection shall be
determined by the city’s Board of Public Works and Safety in conjunction with
contractor.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.09 LARGE ITEMS.
   Users shall be entitled to discard one large item per dwelling per month on
a day designated by the city in conjunction with its contractor. Certain large
items may be prohibited from collection depending on the terms of the contract
between the city and its contractor. Users wishing to discard more than one
large item per month must make arrangements directly with the contractor.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.10 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS BY CIVIC ORGANIZATIONS.
   No person shall, without authorization from the city, collect any
newspapers, glass or aluminum or metal cans in containers or any other
recycling containers that are placed at the curb or alley for collection under
the terms of this chapter; provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be
deemed to prohibit the collection by religious or civic organizations of
recyclable materials not placed at a pickup location pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 FEE FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Users shall be billed directly by the contractor for all collection
and fees pursuant to an agreement between contractor and the city.
   (B)   Domestic solid waste collection and recycling collection shall be
discontinued to any customer for whom water/utilities are terminated or
disconnected.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.12 APPEALS OF CITY DECISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If, in the opinion of any customer, any decision by or on behalf
of the city with regard to this chapter is inaccurate or incorrect, the
customer shall have the right to appeal that decision by filing a written
statement of appeal with the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   The Board shall then schedule the matter on the agenda for its next
scheduled meeting at which time it will hear the complaint and make a decision
with respect to the complaint.
      (3)   The Board shall issue a written determination which shall be
considered administratively final.
      (4)   The pendency of any complaint or any appeal therefrom shall not
relieve the customer from liability for payment of any service.
   (B)   Any disputes or charges with respect to the service provided by the
contractor, including billing, shall be a matter between the owner or user and
the contractor.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The city’s Office of Neighborhood Code Enforcement has the authority
to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the applicable provisions of this
chapter for which another penalty is now provided shall, upon conviction, be
liable for an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $500 for each
violation.
(Ord. G-16-8, passed 11-22-2016)
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
53.01   Department of Storm Water Management
   
53.02   Purpose and objective
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Storm water service charge
   
53.05   Storm water rates
   
53.06   Rate structure and calculation
   
53.07   Billings; terms of payment
   
53.08   Appeals of DSM decisions
   
53.09   Storm Water Fund
   
53.10   Violations; enforcement
   
53.11   Adoption by reference; stormwater management plan
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Adoption of state law. The provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5 are hereby
adopted in their entirety, and the following entities are established or re-
established:
      (1)   The city’s Department of Storm Water Management;
      (2)   The city’s Storm Water Taxing District;
      (3)   The Department of Storm Water Management shall be managed by the
Board of Public Works and Safety of the city; and
      (4)   A Department of Storm Water Management District, extending to the
corporate boundaries of the city is hereby established for the purpose of
providing for the collection and disposal of storm water of the city in a
manner which protects the public health and welfare, and for the purpose of
assessing fees to pay for the cost of storm water facilities and services. As
the corporate boundaries of the city change, whether through annexation or
otherwise, so shall the boundaries of the Storm Water District change.
   (B)   Powers of the Board. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have
exclusive jurisdiction over the collection and disposal of storm water within
the District, and shall possess all the powers and duties set forth in I.C. 8-
1.5-3-4 and 8-1.5-5-6 including, but not limited to, the power to:
      (1)   Recommend to the Common Council rules and regulations governing the
Department of Storm Water Management;
      (2)   Hold hearings following public notice;
      (3)   Make findings and determinations;
      (4)   Install, maintain and operate a storm water collection and disposal
system;
      (5)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds and
premises under its control;
      (6)   Recommend to the Common Council reasonable and just rates and
charges for services to the customers of the District; and
      (7)   Prepare a budget for the operation of the Department on an annual
basis which budget shall be subject to approval by the Common Council. The
issuance of bonds or other methods for making or financing capital improvements
shall be approved by the Common Council as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 54.01) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-05-03, passed 4-
26-2005)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The function of the Department of Storm Water Management is to provide
for the safe and efficient capture and conveyance of storm water runoff;
mitigate the damaging effects of storm water runoff; correct storm water
collection and conveyance problems; and fund the activities of storm water
management including design, planning, regulation, education, coordination,
construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and enforcement activities,
all for the protection of the public health, welfare and safety. It is the
further function of the Department of Storm Water Management to ensure the
city’s compliance with its NPDES storm water discharge permit(s).
   (B)   It is hereby determined necessary for the protection of public health,
safety and welfare and to conform with federal, state and local laws and
regulations that a system of charges for storm water service in the city be
established which allocates the cost of providing storm water service to each
user in such a manner that the charges assessed are proportionate to the cost
of providing storm water service to that user, insofar as those costs can
reasonably be determined.
(Prior Code, § 54.02) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. Any action taken to remedy, correct or eliminate a condition
within, associated with or impacting a storm water drainage system.
   AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY. A parcel or lot of land used to support agricultural
activities.
   APARTMENT/CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of real estate on which is
situated a building containing five or greater single-family dwelling units, or
on which two or more buildings each containing multiple single-family dwelling
units are situated.
   APPROVED PLANS. Plans approved by the Department of Storm Water Management
according to a permits and plan review which will govern all improvements made
within the city that require storm water facilities or changes or alterations
to existing storm water facilities.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Drawings depicting conditions as they were actually
constructed.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Physical, structural and/or managerial
practices that, when used singly or in combination, temporarily store or treat
storm water runoff to prevent or reduce pollution of water, flooding and
provide other amenities that have been approved by the city’s Department of
Storm Water Management.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
   CITY. The City of New Haven.
   CODE. New Haven Code of Ordinances.
   COMBINED SEWERS. Pipe or conduit primarily designed to convey sanitary
sewage and secondarily intended to convey storm water.
   CUSTOMER. The owner of a lot or parcel of residential or non-residential
property shall be considered the Department of Storm Water Management’s
customer for the purpose of assessing storm water service charges.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of storm water runoff in a basin, pond or
other structure to control the peak discharge rates by holding the storm water
for a lengthened period of time and which provides some gravity settling of
particulates.
   DSM. New Haven Department of Storm Water Management.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit value, equal to the average
residential amount of impervious area of a single-family residential property
within the city, and established at 2,534 square feet of (measured) impervious
area. It is also the basis for calculating the proper assessment of storm water
charges to all user of the city storm water system.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Illegal and/or unauthorized connections to the
municipal separate storm water system whether or not such connections result in
discharges into that system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system that is not composed entirely of storm water.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Areas that have been paved and/or covered with buildings
and materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt, rooftop
and blacktop, such that the infiltration of water into the soil is prevented.
Excluded from this definition are undisturbed land, lawns and fields.
   INFILTRATION. A complex process of allowing runoff to penetrate the ground
surface and flow through the upper soil surface.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. All real estate not described by the definition
of “residential real estate” shall be defined as NON-RESIDENTIAL. NON-
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE will include:
      (1)   Agricultural real estate;
      (2)   Apartment and condominium real estate;
      (3)   Mobile home parks;
      (4)   Commercial real estate;
      (5)   Industrial real estate;
      (6)   Institutional real estate;
      (7)   Churches;
      (8)   Schools;
      (9)   Federal, state and local government real estate; and
      (10)   Any other real estate not mentioned in this or the list or
residential properties below.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. Regulations for
storm water discharges are described in the Federal Register, 40 C.F.R. parts
122, 123 and 124 and 327 I.A.C. 15-13.
   NPDES PERMIT. Permit issued to the city pursuant to 327 I.A.C. 15-13.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. Sometimes called PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of
water passing a given point during or after a rainfall event.
   PRIVATE STORM WATER FACILITIES. Various storm water and drainage works not
under the control or ownership of the city, county, state and/or Federal
Government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move or regulate
storm water.
   PUBLIC STORM WATER FACILITIES. The various storm water and drainage works
under the control and/or ownership of the city, county, state or Federal
Government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move or regulate
storm water.
   RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. For the purpose of this section, this definition
refers to a lot or parcel of real estate on which a building or mobile home is
situated which building contains a group of rooms forming a single inhabitable
dwelling unit with facilities which are used or are intended to be used
primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. This definition also
includes a lot containing not more than one individual building containing four
or fewer separate or contiguous single-family dwelling units. Each and every
residential property shall be assigned one ERU. A lot or parcel of real estate
occupied in part by a non-residential use shall be deemed RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE only if the non-residential use is deemed minor or incidental to the
residential use.
   RETENTION. The holding of storm water runoff in a constructed basin or pond
or in a natural body of water without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration or emergency bypass.
   SQUARE FOOTAGE OF IMPERVIOUS AREA. For the purpose of assigning an
appropriate number of ERUs to a parcel of real property, the SQUARE FOOTAGE OF
ALL IMPERVIOUS AREA using the outside boundary dimensions of the impervious
area to include the total enclosed square footage, without regard to
topographic features of the enclosed surface.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer designed or intended to convey only storm water,
surface runoff, street wash waters and drainage, and not intended for sanitary
sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water. The portion
of a sewer intended to carry storm water only, which begins at the grating or
opening where water enters said sewer, through the sewer and any other conduits
to the outlet structure where water enters a channel, natural watercourse or
combined sewer.
   STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE. A charge imposed on users of the city’s storm
water collection, impounding and transportation system.
   STORM WATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, including combined sewers,
structures and natural watercourses under the ownership, and/or control of the
city used for collecting and conducting storm water to, through and from
drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including, but not limited to, any
and all of the following: inlets; conduits and appurtenant features; creeks;
channels; catch basins; ditches; streams; culverts; retention or detention
basins; and pumping stations; and excluding therefore, any part of the system
of drains and watercourses under the jurisdiction of the county’s Drainage
Board or the City of Fort Wayne.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the city’s Utilities Department shall
also serve as Superintendent of the city’s Department of Storm Water
Management.
(Prior Code, § 54.03) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-05-03, passed 4-
26-2005)
§ 53.04 STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   A storm water service charge shall be imposed on each and every lot and
parcel of land within the city which directly or indirectly contributes to the
storm water system of the city, which charge shall be assessed against the
customer thereof, who shall be considered the user for the purposes of this
section. This charge is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the
repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation and
maintenance of the existing and future city storm water system.
(Prior Code, § 54.04) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004)
§ 53.05 STORM WATER RATES.
   (A)   The storm water residential service rate shall be $5.35 per home per
month.
   (B)   The storm water non-residential rate shall be $8.89 per ERU per month,
not to exceed $257.81 per month, the equivalent of the rate for 29 ERUs.
   (C)   This storm water rate is designed to recover the cost of rendering
storm water service to the users of the storm water system, and shall be the
basis for assessment of the city’s storm water service charge. This rate is
established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to provide for reasonably
expected variations in the cost of providing services, as well as variations in
the demand for services.
   (D)   This rate shall be evaluated and may be adjusted by the Common Council
bi-annually, or more often as necessary, with regard to its sufficiency to
satisfy the needs of the DSM.
(Prior Code, § 54.05) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004)
§ 53.06 RATE STRUCTURE AND CALCULATION.
   (A)   For the purposes stated in §§
53.02 and
53.05 of this chapter, there is hereby assessed a storm water service charge to
each customer in an amount as determined below.
   (B)   For any such real estate which contributes directly or indirectly to
the storm water system of the city, such charge shall be based upon the
quantity of impervious area situated thereon.
   (C)   All real estate having impervious area within the city will be
assigned an equivalent residential unit (ERU), or a multiple thereof, with all
properties having impervious area assigned at least one ERU and no more than 29
ERUs.
      (1)   Residential real estate. A monthly flat rate charge for storm water
service rendered to residential properties shall be charged to each account
within the city limits according to the service address. Each separate parcel
of residential real estate shall be assigned one ERU.
      (2)   Non-residential real estate. Each parcel of non-residential real
estate shall be assigned an ERU multiple based upon the parcel’s individually
measured impervious area (in square feet) divided by 2,534 square feet (one
ERU). This division will be calculated to the first decimal place.
      (3)   Only whole ERUs shall be used. All rounding necessary to reach the
appropriate whole ERU shall be done according to mathematical convention (0-0.4
rounded down to nearest whole ERU; 0.5-0.9 rounded up to nearest whole ERU).
   (D)   There shall be no exceptions or exemptions from the assignment of
gross storm water ERUs, except for roadways owned and operated by a public
entity.
(Prior Code, § 54.06) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-05-03, passed 4-
26-2005)
§ 53.07 BILLINGS; TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings. All storm water service bills shall be rendered on a monthly
basis, along with the user’s charges for other city utility services excepting,
however, those customers who pay storm water service charges only. For
customers that pay storm water services charges only they shall be billed twice
per year, once in July and once in January instead of on a monthly basis.
   (B)   Terms of payment. The storm water service charges prescribed in §§
53.05 and
53.06 of this chapter shall be billed monthly and shall be due and payable on
the first day of the month following the date of billing. All bills for storm
water services not paid within 15 days from the due date shall be deemed
delinquent and be subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on
outstanding balance per month, or portion thereof, together with attorney fees
and costs of collection.
   (C)   Payment priority. Partial payments made on combined bills of the storm
water utility and the city’s water and sewer utility shall be applied first to
satisfy water utility fees, second to wastewater utility fees, and third to
storm water utility fees.
   (D)   Added charge. Any storm water service charge not paid when due may be
added to a charge, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-7(c), to the semi-annual property
tax statement of the affected property customer.
   (E)   Collection. In addition to any other remedies provided by law,
delinquent storm water service charges may be collected in a civil action along
withother delinquent utility charges, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (F)   Credit balances. Overpayments made on combined bills of the Storm
Water Utility and the city Water and Sewer Utility shall be applied first to
the Water Utility fees, second to Wastewater Utility fees, and third to Storm
Water Utility fees.
(Prior Code, § 54.07) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-05-03, passed 4-
26-2005; Ord. G-11-06, passed 9-27-2011; Ord. G-21-05, passed 3-2-2021; Ord. G-
24-09, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 53.08 APPEALS OF DSM DECISIONS.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of any customer, any decision by or on behalf of
the DSM is inaccurate or incorrect, the customer shall have the right to appeal
that decision in the following manner.
   (B)   The customer shall file a written statement of appeal, together with
verifiable documentation supporting the customer’s claim, with the
Superintendent. The DSM may adopt a form upon which the appeal must be filed.
   (C)   The Superintendent, or his or her designee, shall investigate the
customer’s claim, and, upon review thereof, shall render a written opinion
affirming or modifying the determination subject to the appeal.
   (D)   The Superintendent’s opinion shall be forwarded to customer by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (E)   The written opinion of the Superintendent or his or her designee may
be challenged by the customer by a written request to the Board for formal
consideration within 15 days of receipt of the Superintendent’s opinion.
   (F)   The Board shall conduct a hearing and issue a written determination
which shall be administratively final. The hearing shall be electronically
recorded and shall be treated for all purposes as a public document.
   (G)   A party or person aggrieved by the final Board determination shall
have the right to judicial review of such determination in accordance with
state law.
   (H)   The pendancy of any appeal pursuant to this section shall not relieve
the customer from liability for payment of any monthly fee except to the extent
that relief is granted by the Superintendent or Board.
   (I)   The storm water rate specified in §
53.05 of this chapter or as determined pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-7 shall not be
subject to appeal pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 54.08) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-05-03, passed 4-
26-2005)
§ 53.09 STORM WATER FUND.
   All revenues earned and fees collected for storm water service, including,
but not limited to, permit and inspection fees, direct charges and interest
earnings on any unused funds shall be deposited in an account entitled, “City
of New Haven Storm Water Fund”. Disbursements from this account will be
authorized by the Board of Works. Such disbursements will be used exclusively
for the operation, maintenance and improvement of the city’s storm water
system. Funds from this account shall not revert to any other city utilities or
Civil City Fund and may not be transferred for any other purpose. Specifically,
funds shall not be used to pay county ditch taxes.
(Prior Code, § 54.09) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-21-05, passed 3-
2-2021)
§ 53.10 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In order to protect the integrity of the city storm water utility, it
is determined to be a violation of this section for any person or entity to
permit, allow or engage in the dumping or disposal of materials other than
storm water into the city’s municipal separate storm water system.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person or entity to
permit, allow or engage in the discharge of domestic sewage or industrial waste
into any waterway of the United States including, but not limited to, the
Maumee River, any of its tributaries or streams or any streets, storm sewers or
drains, ditches or drainage ways leading to any such waterway of the United
States.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person or entity to
store polluting substances, as identified by USEPA or IDEM, in a manner which
violates any federal, state or local statute, ordinance or regulation relating
to the protection of the public health, safety and welfare or environment, when
such storage is shown to have the potential of allowing discharge to any
waterway of the United States including, but not limited to, the Maumee River,
any of its tributaries or streams or any streets, storm sewers or drains,
ditches or drainage ways leading to any such waterway of the United States.
   (D)   Violations of this section shall be prosecuted in the name of the city
pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5.
(Prior Code, § 54.10) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-05-03, passed 4-
26-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE; STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Common Council for the city has adopted the City of New Haven
Stormwater Management Plan (the “Stormwater Management Plan”).
   (B)   The Stormwater Management Plan listed in division (A) above is hereby
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as if set forth herein, and as
amended from time to time.
   (C)   The complete latest edition of the Stormwater Management Resolution
and Construction Manual is on file in the office of the Clerk and available for
public inspection during office hours.
(Ord. G-23-12, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity found in violation of §
53.10 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500 per day. In
addition, that person or entity may also be held responsible for any costs
incurred by the city in correcting the violation or remediating any damage to
the waterways of the United States and/or to the public storm water system
caused by the violation.
   (B)   Each day that such violation(s) or non- compliance continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Any fine assessed by the court shall be deemed a
civil judgment.
(Prior Code, § 54.11) (Ord. G-04-02, passed 4-27-2004; Ord. G-05-03, passed 4-
26-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      
71.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION
CHAPTER 70: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Effect of traffic code
   
70.003   Severability
   
70.004   Adult school crossing guards; obedience
   
70.005   Safety belt use required
   
70.006   Corner visibility
   
70.007   Abandoned vehicles
   
70.008   Buses, trucks and other vehicles prohibited on certain streets
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.020   Required obedience to traffic regulations
   
70.021   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
70.022   Forms for notices of violation and appearance
   
70.023   Procedure upon citation for violation
   
70.024   Notice on illegally parked vehicles
   
70.025   Failure to comply with notice attached to parked vehicle
   
70.026   When complaint to be issued
Enforcement and Obedience
   
70.040   Authority of police officers; authority of members of Fire Department
to assist police at fire
   
70.041   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.042   Persons propelling pushcarts or riding animals to obey traffic
regulations
   
70.043   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
70.044   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.045   Special exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.046   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.047   Immediate report of accident
Operation of Vehicles Generally
   
70.060   Following fire apparatus
   
70.061   Crossing fire hose
   
70.062   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
70.063   Driving in procession
   
70.064   Funeral processions to be identified
   
70.065   When permits required for parades and processions
   
70.066   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalk
   
70.067   Limitations on backing into intersection
   
70.068   Riding on motorcycles or mopeds
   
70.069   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
70.070   Limited access roadways
   
70.071   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.072   Unlawful riding
   
70.073   Driving in alleys
   
70.074   Vehicle noise and exhaust limitations
   
70.075   Weight restrictions on certain bridges within the city
Speed Regulations
   
70.085   Applicability of state speed laws
   
70.086   Speed limits in public parks
Turns
   
70.100   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
70.101   Obedience to turning markers
   
70.102   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
70.103   Limitations on turning around
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
70.115   Operation of vehicles on designated one-way streets and alleys
Stop Intersections and Yield Intersections
   
70.130   Stop signals; authority to erect
   
70.131   Stop signs; duty to stop
   
70.132   Yield intersections
Traffic-Control Signals and Devices
   
70.145   Manual and specifications for traffic- control devices
   
70.146   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
70.147   Flashing signals
   
70.148   Display of unauthorized signs, signals and markings
   
70.149   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs
or signals
Stopping, Standing or Parking
   
70.160   Stop required when emerging from alley or private driveway
   
70.161   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
70.162   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train
   
70.163   Standing or parking close to curb
   
70.164   Angle parking
   
70.165   Parking prohibited in specified places
   
70.166   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
70.167   Parking in alleys
   
70.168   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
70.169   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
70.170   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited during certain hours on
certain streets
   
70.171   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
70.172   Parking signs required
   
70.173   Restricted, impaired mobility parking
Snow and/or Emergencies and Traffic Control
   
70.185   Travel advisories
   
70.186   Prohibitions on the travel, parking and standing of vehicles on
emergency routes
Blocking of Grade Crossings
   
70.200   Blocking of grade crossings prohibited
   
70.201   Successive trains may not obstruct vehicular traffic
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT SCHOOL CROSSING GUARD. An adult employed to aid school children in
crossing the street by stopping traffic so that pedestrians may cross safely.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way other than a street, road, crosswalk or easement,
designed for the special accommodation of the property it reaches.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, Police
Department and such ambulances and other vehicles having a public emergency use
as are authorized and designated by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. An area contained within either of the following:
      (1)   An area formed by the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two
public roadways and a line connecting the points found on the right-of-way
lines measured 25 feet from the intersection of these right-of-way lines; or
      (2)   An area contained within a strip five feet wide contiguous to and
outside of the right-of-way line of every public roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb, or lateral boundary line of a
roadway, reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles while loading or unloading
passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets which join one another at an angle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, but not operated on
rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   ONE-WAY STREETS. Streets and alleys upon which traffic is allowed to proceed
in only one direction instead of two directions.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every member of the Police Department of the city, or any
person specifically authorized by the Board of Pubic Works and Safety to direct
or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationery rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. An engine, whether powered by steam, gasoline, electric,
diesel or other type motor, with or without cars coupled thereto, operated upon
rails.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway; or, the
land covered by a path, street or highway, including any legal easements, which
lawfully may be used for travel.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. An intersection where traffic on one street is required
by law to stop before entering or crossing the same when “stop” signs are
erected as provided in this traffic code.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. Any stopping or standing of a vehicle whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with traffic or in
compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic-control sign or
signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained, except alleys, when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC. The movement of persons, vehicles and other conveyances, either
singly or together, for purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or is otherwise controlled.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon or across a street.
   YIELD INTERSECTION. An intersection where traffic entering on one street is
required to slow down to a speed reasonable for existing conditions, or stop if
necessary before entering or crossing the same, when “yield” signs are erected
as provided in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.002 EFFECT OF TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   This entire traffic code shall be deemed and construed to be an
exercise of the police powers of the city for the preservation and protection
of public safety, and all of its provisions shall be liberally construed with a
view to the effectuation of such purpose.
   (B)   The traffic laws of the state and the traffic ordinances of the county
in effect in a territory which is annexed by the city shall, immediately upon
the effective date of an annexation, become traffic ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.003 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code is found by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid or unconstitutional, or if the application of this code to any
person or circumstances is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the other provisions or
applications of this code which can be given effect without the invalid or
unconstitutional provision.
(Prior Code, § 74.01) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.004 ADULT SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS; OBEDIENCE.
   The operator of a motor vehicle shall obey the stop sign and signal of any
adult school crossing guard when on duty, and bring his or her vehicle to a
stop not less than 12 feet from said adult crossing guard in order to allow
pedestrians to cross the street in a safe manner.
(Prior Code, § 70.69) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.005 SAFETY BELT USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each front seat occupant of a passenger motor vehicle that is equipped
with a safety belt meeting the standards stated in the Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard Number 208 (49 C.F.R. § 571.208) shall have a safety belt
properly fastened about the occupant’s body at all times when the vehicle is in
forward motion.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person described by I.C. 9-19-10-
1.
(Prior Code, § 70.70) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.006 CORNER VISIBILITY.
   No fence, wall, hedge or other planting or other obstruction to vision,
extending in excess of three feet above or hanging lower than eight feet above
the established street centerline grade shall be erected, planted or maintained
in the city limits. If any owner shall fail to remove any such obstructions
within 15 days after notice, the city’s Traffic Engineer may cause them to be
removed at the expense of the owner. The Police Department, Street Department,
Park Department and Building Department will cooperate with the Traffic
Engineer in the enforcement of this provision.
(Prior Code, § 70.65) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.007 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any vehicle on any public or
private premises within the city or to leave any vehicle at any place within
the city for such time and under such circumstances which would reasonably make
such vehicle appear to have been abandoned. No person shall leave any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or junked vehicles on any public or private
premises within the city unless it is in a garage or other building. Businesses
or persons holding a salvage license from the state’s Department of
Environmental Management are exempt from this section.
(Prior Code, § 70.63) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. G-12-04, passed 2-
28-2012) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.008 BUSES, TRUCKS AND OTHER VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   Drivers of commercial vehicles of one- ton capacity or more are
hereby prohibited from operating or driving such vehicles on streets not
designated as truck routes, except for purposes of pickup and delivery service
to places located along non-designated streets; in which case, such driver
shall cause such vehicle to enter upon and leave the same at the street
intersection nearest to the point where such pickup or delivery is made.
      (2)   The streets or portions of streets which are designated as truck
routes are described on the list maintained on file in the office of the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Commercial motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, watercraft or
trailers may not be parked in any street or alley within the city, except
during such time as is reasonably necessary to make a bona fide pickup or
delivery.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles used in commerce to transport passengers or property if the motor
vehicle:
         (a)   Has a gross combination weight rating of at least 26,000 pounds,
including the weight of any towed unit;
         (b)   Has a gross vehicle weight rating of at least 26,000 pounds;
         (c)   Is designed to transport at least 16 passengers, including the
driver; or
         (d)   Is:
            1.   Of any size;
            2.   Used in the transportation of materials found to be hazardous
for the purposes of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act; and
            3.   Required to be placarded under the Hazardous Materials
Regulations (49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F).
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A device designed for travel, recreational camping
or vacation purposes which either has its own motor power or is mounted on or
drawn by another vehicle, including, but not limited to, travel trailers,
camping trailers, truck campers and motor homes.
      TRAILER. A vehicle designed for transporting cargo or one or more
watercraft and which is designed to be towed.
      WATERCRAFT. Any instrumentality or device in or by means of which a
person may be transported upon the public water of the state. The term includes
a motorboat, sailboat, rowboat, skiff, dinghy or canoe:
         (a)   Of any length or size; and
         (b)   Whether or not used to carry passengers for hire.
(Prior Code, § 70.64) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.020 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required in this traffic code. Violations of the acts forbidden herein will
result in a civil action with a possible fine penalty upon proof of the
violation pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.021 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is empowered:
      (1)   To make regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of
this traffic code; and
      (2)   To make regulations to carry out its delegated authority hereunder.
   (B)   All regulations of the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be
adopted by such Board by formal resolution, which resolution shall recite the
provision of this traffic code to be made effective by such regulation, the
section of this traffic code under which delegated authority is carried out or
the emergency or special condition requiring the temporary or experimental
regulation provided therein, as the case may be.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals and devices when
and as required to make effective the provisions of this traffic code or other
traffic ordinances of the city, or to facilitate the movement or promote the
safety of traffic at an intersection, and to place and maintain such additional
traffic-control devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic under
state law;
      (2)   Authorize or designate authorized emergency vehicles;
      (3)   Designate “stop” intersections;
      (4)   Establish speed limits;
      (5)   Designate “yield” intersections;
      (6)   Determine angle parking locations;
      (7)   Restrict parking;
      (8)   Designate curb loading zones;
      (9)   Designate bus and taxi stands;
      (10)   Designate crosswalks, safety zones and mark traffic lanes;
      (11)   Determine turn restrictions;
      (12)   Designate one-way streets and alleys;
      (13)   Designate weight restrictions and truck routes; and
      (14)   Designate routes and operating requirements for motor vehicles
transporting hazardous materials in and through the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.022 FORMS FOR NOTICES OF VIOLATION AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall provide, in triplicate, suitable,
serially numbered forms for notifying violators to appear and answer to charges
of violating this traffic code and other laws and ordinances of the city. Such
forms shall be issued to and receipted for by the Chief of Police or other
person acting for him or her. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall, each month,
report to the Mayor the disposal made by the police of all triplicate forms
issued to them.
   (B)   For this purpose, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer or his or her
representative shall have access to the necessary records of the Police
Department. These reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.023 PROCEDURE UPON CITATION FOR VIOLATION.
   Any police officer, upon observing violation of this traffic code or other
traffic ordinances of the city, shall take the name, address and operator’s
license number of the alleged violator and the registered number of the motor
vehicle involved, and shall issue to him or her in writing, on the form
provided by the city’s Clerk-Treasurer, a notice to answer to the charge
against him or her at a place and at a time at least five days thereafter, to
be specified in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.024 NOTICE ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked, standing or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this traffic code or
other ordinance of the city, or by state law, the officer finding such vehicle
shall take its registration number and may take any other information displayed
on the vehicle which may identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to
such vehicle a notice in writing, on the form provided by the Police Chief for
the driver to answer to the charge against him or her within 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.025 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under
this traffic code or other traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in
response to a notice affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of 48 hours,
the Police Department shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
police affixed a notice a letter informing him or her of the violation and
warning him or her that in the event such violator continues to disregard the
notice, a complaint will be filed and warrant for the arrest issued.
(Prior Code, § 70.09) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.026 WHEN COMPLAINT TO BE ISSUED.
   In the event any person fails to comply with a notice given to such person
or attached to a vehicle or fails to make appearance pursuant to a summons
directing an appearance, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith have a
complaint entered against such person.
(Prior Code, § 70.10) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE
§ 70.040 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS; AUTHORITY OF MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT
TO ASSIST POLICE AT FIRE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department of the
city to enforce all traffic laws of the city and all state laws applicable to
traffic in the city.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department of the city are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic in conformance with all traffic laws and regulations;
provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic
or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department shall direct
traffic without regard to traffic laws and regulations.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.11) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.041 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail to refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 70.12) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.042 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS TO OBEY TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a street and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.13) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.043 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster or
similar device, except bicycles when operated in accordance with this traffic
code, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk,
and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 70.14) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.044 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, the state,
county, township or the city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to
violate any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise
permitted in this traffic code or by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.045 SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to a driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle as defined in this traffic code; except, when such
vehicle is employed in the performance of an emergency duty or in lawful
pursuit, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, the driver may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, yellow or caution signal, or
stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary to avoid endangering
life or property;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions, so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The exemptions hereinbefore granted in reference to the movement of an
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle sounds a
siren, bell or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary and the vehicle
displays a lighted red lamp visible from the front under normal atmospheric
conditions a distance of 500 feet as a warning to others.
(Prior Code, § 70.16) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.046 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle equipped with
at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible from the front under
normal atmospheric conditions a distance of 500 feet, and when the driver is
giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every
other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a
position parallel to and as close as possible to the curb of the roadway, clear
of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until such
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
Police Officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.047 IMMEDIATE REPORT OF ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or in property damage shall immediately, by the quickest
means of communication, give notice of such accident to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY
§ 70.060 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business in connection
with a fire, shall follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.061 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street, alley or private driveway to be used at any fire
or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.062 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 70.21) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.063 DRIVING IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 70.22) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.064 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of pennant or other identifying
insignia.
(Prior Code, § 70.23) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.065 WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No funeral procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or more
vehicles, excepting the military forces of the United States, the military
forces of the state and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments, shall
occupy, march or proceed along any street, except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are set forth in
this traffic code which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 70.24) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.066 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive in, on or across any sidewalk,
except at a permanent or temporary driveway or alley.
(Prior Code, § 70.25) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.067 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING INTO INTERSECTION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall back such vehicle across any marked or unmarked
crosswalk or into any intersection, nor shall he or she back such vehicle at
any other place unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and
without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.26) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.068 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES OR MOPEDS.
   A person operating a motorcycle or moped shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other person, nor
shall any other person ride upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly
attached seat to the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 70.27) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.069 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving
vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 70.28) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.070 LIMITED ACCESS ROADWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 70.29) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.071 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle when such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 70.30) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.072 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle or upon any portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 70.31) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.073 DRIVING IN ALLEYS.
   No driver of any vehicle shall drive into, on or through any alley or any
portion thereof, except for the purpose of going to or departing from a place
or property abutting on the section or block of such alley which such driver
has caused his or her vehicle to enter.
(Prior Code, § 70.32) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.074 VEHICLE NOISE AND EXHAUST LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall use or operate, except in emergency situations, on any
street within the city any vehicle engine compression brake, commonly known as
a “Jake Brake”.
   (B)   No motor vehicle shall be used or operated within the city when such
motor vehicle has attached or installed to it any device which causes fire or
flame to be thrown from the exhaust pipe of such motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.33) (Ord. G-04-18, passed 12-28-2004) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.075 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN BRIDGES WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   Weight restrictions. There shall be placed the following weight
restrictions on the following bridges within the city:
      (1)   Main Street Bridge No. 601 over Trier Drain shall be limited to
eight tons for vehicles with two axles, ten tons for vehicles with three axles,
and nine tons for vehicles with four axles or more.
      (2)   Werling Road Bridge No. 196 over the Dannenfelser Drain shall be
limited to 29 tons for vehicles with two axles, 37 tons for vehicles with three
axles, and 37 tons for vehicles with four axles.
   (B)   Penalties. The penalties for violation of this section shall be as
follows:
Exceeded Weight Limit Penalty Assessed
Exceeded Weight Limit                  Penalty Assessed
1 pound to 1,000 pounds                $100.00
1,001 pounds to 2,000 pounds           $200.00
2,001 pounds to 3,000 pounds           $300.00
3,001 pounds to 4,000 pounds           $400.00
4,001 pounds to 5,000 pounds           $500.00
5,001 pounds to 6,000 pounds           $600.00
6,001 pounds to 7,000 pounds           $700.00
7,001 pounds to 8,000 pounds           $800.00
8,001 pounds to 9,000 pounds           $900.00
9,001 pounds to 10,000 pounds          $1,000.00
10,001 pounds to 11,000 pounds         $1,100.00
11,001 pounds to 12,000 pounds         $1,200.00
12,001 pounds to 13,000 pounds         $1,300.00
13,001 pounds to 14,000 pounds         $1,400.00
14,001 pounds to 15,000 pounds         $1,500.00
15,001 pounds to 16,000 pounds         $1,600.00
16,001 pounds to 17,00() pounds        $1,700.00
17,001 pounds to 18,000 pounds         $1,800.00
18,001 pounds to 19,000 pounds         $1,900.00
19,001 pounds to 20,000 pounds         $2,000.00
20,001 pounds to 21,000 pounds         $2,100.00
21,001 pounds to 22,000 pounds         $2,200.00
22,001 pounds to 23,000 pounds         $2,300.00
23,001 pounds to 24,000 pounds         $2,400.00
24,001 pounds to 25,000 pounds or more $2,500.00
 
   (C)   An officer who has reason to believe that a vehicle or load on the
vehicle exceeds these restrictions may do the following:
      (1)   Stop, measure and weigh the vehicle or load by means of portable or
stationary scales;
      (2)   Require the vehicle to be driven to a scales within five miles;
however, a vehicle carrying a load of asphalt or concrete in the plastic stage
may not be required to be driven more than two miles to a scales.
(Ord. G-19-4, passed 3-26-2019)
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 70.085 APPLICABILITY OF STATE SPEED LAWS.
   The laws of the state establishing or regulating speed limits for vehicles
on public streets or highways shall apply to all public streets or highways
within the city, except in the circumstances where such limits have been
increased or decreased. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate
a vehicle in excess of any speed so determined, when signs are in place giving
notice thereof. A listing of each city street, highway or portion thereof upon
which the speed limit has been increased or decreased by local authorities of
the city, as herein authorized, shall be forwarded to the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer, who shall make such list available for public inspection. All
changes in such listing may be made by resolution of the Board of Public Works
and Safety and shall be promptly attached to such listing by the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.34) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.086 SPEED LIMITS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   A speed limit of 15 mph shall be declared the prima facie limit upon all
streets and roads of the city park system; provided that, at or near hazardous
or congested locations, a speed limit less than that specified in this section
may be established, and traffic speed control devices installed, when deemed
necessary by resolution of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 70.35) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
TURNS
§ 70.100 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and the right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   (C)   (1)   The approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-
way street shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway
nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline
where it enters the intersection.
      (2)   A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
   (D)   Where both streets or roadways are one-way, both the approach for a
left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the left-
hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 70.36) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.101 OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, traffic lanes or other indicators are placed
indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of
a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indicators.
(Prior Code, § 70.37) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.102 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or “U”
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such signs.
(Prior Code, § 70.38) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.103 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver of any vehicle shall turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction, herein otherwise referred to as a “U” turn, upon any street
unless such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with other
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.39) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 70.115 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON DESIGNATED ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described on a
list maintained on file in the office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer, vehicular
traffic shall move only in one direction and movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited; provided that, signs indicating the direction in which the
traffic is allowed to proceed must be maintained at every intersection where a
one-way street has been designated.
(Prior Code, § 70.40) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
STOP INTERSECTIONS AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS
§ 70.130 STOP SIGNALS; AUTHORITY TO ERECT.
   Whenever this traffic code or any ordinance of the city designates and
describes a stop intersection, it shall be the duty of the City Engineer to
place and maintain a stop sign on each street intersecting that portion thereof
which is described and designated in the list of stop intersections maintained
on file in the office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.41) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.131 STOPS SIGNS; DUTY TO STOP.
   A person who drives a vehicle shall stop at an intersection where a stop
sign is erected and proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles that are not
required to stop.
(Prior Code, § 70.42) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.132 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Yield signs; authority to erect. Whenever this traffic code or any
ordinance of the city designates and describes a yield intersection, it shall
be the duty of the City Engineer to place and maintain a yield sign on each
street intersecting that portion thereof which is described and designated in
the list of yield intersections maintained on file in the office of the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Obedience to signs.
      (1)   A person who drives a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow
down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions or stop if necessary.
      (2)   The person shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway and to a vehicle in the intersection or approaching on
another highway or street so closely as to present an immediate hazard.
      (3)   After yielding, the person may proceed, and all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 70.43) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS AND DEVICES
§ 70.145 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the
manual and specifications approved by the state’s Highway Department.
   (B)   All signs required by this traffic code for a particular purpose shall
be uniform as to type and location throughout the city.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this traffic code shall be official traffic-control
devices.
(Prior Code, § 70.44) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.146 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   A pedestrian or the driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with
this traffic code or other ordinances of the city, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 70.45) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.147 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, traffic shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk
at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if none, then before
entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the
rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, traffic may proceed through the intersection
or past such signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 70.46) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.148 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or
which hides from view any device or any railroad sign or signal; and no person
shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit, upon any
streets any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
      (2)   No person shall place, maintain or display any flashing, rotating
or alternating light, beacon or other lighted device which is visible from any
highway and which may be mistaken for or confused with a traffic-control device
or for an authorized warning device or an emergency vehicle.
      (3)   This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection, upon private
property adjacent to highways, of signs giving useful directional information
and a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, device or marking is declared to
be a public nuisance, and the Police Department is empowered and required to
remove the same without notice.
(Prior Code, § 70.47) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.149 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS
OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.48) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
§ 70.160 STOP REQUIRED WHEN EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk area extending
across an alleyway, yielding the right-of- way to any pedestrian, as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 70.49) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.161 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless and until there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic- control signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 70.50) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.162 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF RAILROAD TRAIN.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the
driver of such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than ten feet
from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she
can do so safely.
      (2)   The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electrical or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of
the highway crossing emits a signal audible for such distance and such railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard; and
         (d)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 70.51) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.163 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of a lawful traffic
movement, except where the parking area has been designated as angle parking.
(Prior Code, § 70.52) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.164 ANGLE PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway parallel to the edge of
the curb when the area has been designated as an area for angle parking by the
City Engineer and is marked as such with either signs or painted lines and is
indicated on a list of angle parking streets maintained in the office of the
city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.53) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.165 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction of a police officer or
traffic-control device in any of the following places or manner:
   (A)   On a sidewalk or where any portion of said vehicle, or any item on, or
contained in, or attached to said vehicle, obstructs any portion of a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail or a railroad crossing;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance of any fire station within 75 feet of
such entrance, when properly signposted;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (L)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or beneath
a highway overpass;
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
   (N)   Upon any street for any period of time longer than 72 continuous
hours, except on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays; provided, that this section
shall not be deemed to apply to utility, signal and street repair vehicles when
necessary performance of their primary function requires otherwise;
   (O)   At any place posted with temporary “no parking” signs authorized by
the Chief of Police;
   (P)   More than 12 inches from the curb;
   (Q)   With the vehicle facing in the direction opposite the direction of
traffic on the side of the street where the vehicle is parked;
   (R)   In the rear of the North Fire Station; provided that, this section
shall not be deemed to prohibit firefighters from parking in such area; and
   (S)   (1)   In a front yard, in a side yard on the street side of a corner
lot, or in a rear yard that abuts a street.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (A)(19), parking shall not be
prohibited in the following areas:
         (a)   An improved space in the prohibited parking area used as a
parking space before this section is adopted, provided that the entrance to the
approved area is via a driveway or curb cut, except where adjacent to a paved
street where there is no curb;
         (b)   Parking in any portion of the driveway that lawfully may be
located in the front yard, rear yard or side yard, except the portion that is a
part of the sidewalk;
         (c)   Parking within ten feet of the edge of the street where no curb
is present, within the existing right-of-way, and in an improved area;
         (d)   Any improved area designated for parking meeting the
requirements of the city’s Zoning Code; and
         (e)   Where the vehicle is parked for the purpose of unloading,
washing or some other similar purpose. The vehicle, however, must be removed
from the front yard, side yard or rear yard once the task is completed.
(Prior Code, § 70.54) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. G-02-15, passed 9-
10-2002; Ord. G-03-25, passed 12-23-2003) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.166 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway unobstructed for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle within ten feet of traveled portion
of any four lane street.
(Prior Code, § 70.55) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.167 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except while loading or
unloading, and no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in
such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 70.56) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.168 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale or for the primary purpose of
advertising any product or thing whatsoever; and/or
   (B)   Greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 70.57) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.169 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected pursuant hereto giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described on the list
maintained on file in the office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.58) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.170 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON
CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice of certain hours during
which parking is prohibited, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on
the street between the hours specified, on any day, except Sundays and
holidays; a list of the streets containing such prohibitions is to be
maintained in the office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.59) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.171 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block pursuant to this subchapter giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any
time between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day, except Sundays
and holidays within the district or upon any of the streets described in the
lists maintained on file in the office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.60) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.172 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this traffic code or by any other ordinance of the city any
parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets,
it shall be the duty of the City Engineer to erect appropriate signs giving
notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are
erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.61) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.173 RESTRICTED, IMPAIRED MOBILITY PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a space designated for
impaired mobility parking unless the vehicle bears a license plate or decal
issued by the state or another state containing the international wheelchair
symbol or such other symbol as the Commission of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
of Indiana or any other state shall designate to distinguish a vehicle used by
or to transport an impaired mobility person. A list of such restricted parking
areas is to be maintained on file in the office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.62) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
SNOW AND/OR EMERGENCIES AND
TRAFFIC CONTROL
§ 70.185 TRAVEL ADVISORIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following:
         (a)   Fire Department vehicles and vehicles operated by members of a
Fire Department while responding to or preventing an emergency;
         (b)   Police Department vehicles operated by members of a Police
Department while responding to or preventing an emergency;
         (c)   Emergency medical service vehicles and vehicles operated by
members of an emergency medical service responding to or preventing an
emergency;
         (d)   Vehicles owned or operated by the United States of America,
state, county or city while used for official business related to an emergency
or condition caused thereby; and
         (e)   Other vehicles such as public utility vehicles, fuel service
vehicles or the like, as shall have provided prior notice to the Chief of
Police while used for official business related to an emergency or a condition
caused thereby. Such use shall be subject to any restrictions or conditions
related to an emergency as may be imposed by the Chief of Police.
      EMERGENCY. An event or condition that could not be reasonably foreseen
and that threatens the health, welfare, property or safety of one or more
persons and requires immediate action.
   (B)   An emergency shall commence by executive order, determination and
proclamation by the Mayor of the city, before, during or after a situation
which, in his or her sound judgment and discretion, warrants the determination
of such an emergency for the public safety of the city.
   (C)   The Mayor of the city may designate a travel advisory as part of an
emergency declaration as authorized by I.C. 10-14-3 et seq. A travel advisory
shall be designated as one of the following levels:
      (1)   Advisory. The lowest travel advisory level. Routine travel or
activities may be restricted in areas because of a hazardous situation.
Individuals should use caution or avoid these areas;
      (2)   Watch. Conditions are threatening to the safety of the public. Only
essential travel is recommended (i.e., to and from work, emergency situations
and the like). Businesses, schools, government agencies and other organizations
should implement emergency action plans; and
      (3)   Warning. The highest travel advisory level. Extremely hazardous
travel conditions. Travel is restricted to authorized emergency vehicles only.
City government offices are closed and all scheduled city meetings are
canceled. Individuals should refrain from all travel, comply with necessary
emergency measures, cooperate with public officials and disaster services
forces in executing emergency operations plans, and obey and comply with the
lawful directions of properly identified officers.
   (D)   An emergency shall continue in effect until the Mayor of the city
determinates that the emergency no longer exists and accordingly terminates
such emergency.
   (E)   The Mayor of the city may issue a travel “advisory” or “watch” without
an emergency declaration. A travel “warning” may be issued only after an
emergency declaration is declared pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.66) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. G-11-08, passed
12-27-2011)
§ 70.186 PROHIBITIONS ON THE TRAVEL, PARKING AND STANDING OF VEHICLES ON
EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver or operator of any vehicle
to park or stop the same or to permit the same to be parked or to stand at any
time during the period of any travel “advisory”, “watch” or “warning” on any of
the routes or streets listed on the list maintained in the office of the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer. Any police officer, upon discovering any such vehicle so
parked or stopped in violation of this subchapter, may remove such vehicle or
cause the same to be removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a motor vehicle operator to travel on a city
street during a travel “warning” for a non-emergency purpose or during a travel
“watch” unless authorized.
(Prior Code, § 70.67) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. G-11-08, passed
12-27-2011) Penalty, see §
70.999
BLOCKING OF GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 70.200 BLOCKING OF GRADE CROSSINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a railroad corporation to permit any train,
railroad car or engine to obstruct public travel at a railroad-highway grade
crossing for a period in excess of ten minutes, except where such train,
railroad car or engine cannot be moved by reasons of circumstances over which
the railroad corporation has no control.
(Prior Code, § 70.80) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 70.201 SUCCESSIVE TRAINS MAY NOT OBSTRUCT VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for a railroad corporation to permit successive train
movements to obstruct vehicular traffic at a railroad-highway grade crossing
until all vehicular traffic previously delayed by such train movements has been
cleared or a period of five minutes has elapsed between train movements.
(Prior Code, § 70.81) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this traffic code shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 per violation.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
   (B)   (1)   Any motor vehicle operator traveling on a city street during a
travel “warning” for a non- emergency purpose or during a travel “watch” unless
authorized may be fined not more than $1,500 per violation.
      (2)   Owners or operators of vehicles that block, obstruct, delay or
otherwise interfere with emergency services personnel or road crews during any
travel “advisory,” “watch” or “warning” may be fined not more than $1,500 per
violation.
      (3)   Vehicles that impede emergency services personnel or road crews
during any travel “advisory,” “watch” or “warning” will be subject to removal.
(Prior Code, § 70.68)
   (C)   A railroad corporation which violates this traffic code shall be
punished by a fine of at least $100, but not more than $500, for each
violation.
(Prior Code, § 70.82)
(Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. G-11-08, passed 12-27-2011)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Designated no parking zones
      
II.   Designated areas where no parking allowed during certain hours
      
III.   Designated two-hour parking zones
      
IV.   Restricted, impaired mobility parking areas
      
V.   Designated snow and/or ice emergency routes
      
VI.   State and federal highways
SCHEDULE I. DESIGNATED NO PARKING ZONES.
   No parking is permitted in the following areas:
Street Side(s) Location
Street                Side(s)    Location
                                 From the east curb line of Heine Court to a
Berwick Lane          North side point located 80 feet east of the centerline
                                 of the intersection of Berwick Lane and Heine
                                 Court
                                 From the west curb line of Heine Court to a
Berwick Lane          North side point located 75 feet west from the centerline
                                 of the intersection of Berwick Lane and Heine
                                 Court
                                 From 568 feet north of the north R/W line of
Broadway              West side  the Norfolk Southern to 838 feet north of the
                                 north R/W line of the Norfolk Southern
Brookwood Drive       Both sides Between State Highway 930 and Courtney Drive
Center Street         Both sides From Oak Street to High Street
College Street        East side  Between Lincoln Highway and Elm Street
College Street        West side  From State Highway 930 to Park Avenue
Courtney Drive        Both sides Between Brookwood and Melbourne
Courtney Drive        South side From Campton Drive to east terminus
                                 From west edge of Doyle Road to a point
Declaration Drive     Both sides located 295 feet west of the west edge of
                                 Doyle Road
                                 From a point located 770 feet west of the west
Declaration Drive     Both sides edge of Doyle Road to a point located 875 feet
                                 west of the west edge of Doyle Road
                                 From the centerline of Highway U.S. 30 at
                                 Doyle Road south to a point located at the
Doyle Road            Both sides centerline of the intersection of Moeller Road
                                 and Doyle Road (both points being the current
                                 city limits)
                                 From Rose Avenue to the southern terminus of
Eben Street           West side  Eben Street at the north right-of-way line of
                                 the Norfolk Southern Railway
Edwards Street        East side   
Estella Avenue        Both sides  
Garden Street         West side  From Lincoln Highway to Elm Street
Glencoe Boulevard     North side From Highland Terrace Drive to the Jury Park
                                 property line
Green Road            Both sides From State Highway 930 to Seiler Road
Green Street          Both sides State Highway 930 to Rose Avenue
Hartzell Street       North side From Broadway to Green Street
Henry Street          Both sides North of Rose Avenue
Henry Street          East side  From Middle Street to Railroad Street
Henry Street          East side  From Summit Street to Main Street
                                 From the northern right-of-way line of the
Henry Street          West side  Norfolk Southern Railroad to Summit Street and
                                 from Main Street to Rose Avenue
Homestead Drive       East side  From Park Avenue to State Highway 930
Homestead Drive       West side  Between Lincoln Highway and Park Avenue
Isabelle Drive        Both sides  
Keller Drive          East side  From Lincoln Highway to State Highway 930
Kirkmore Drive        North side  
Koehlinger Drive      West side   
Landin Road           Both sides  
Lincoln Highway       Both sides From junction with State Highway 930 east to
                                 city limits
Main Street           South side From the west curb of Henry Street to a point
                                 157 feet west thereof
Maumee Road           North side From Meyer Road to Estella Avenue
McConnell Drive       Both sides  
Melbourne Drive       West side   
Middle Street         Both sides Between Broadway and Ann Street
Minnich Road          Both sides  
Mourey Street         East side  From Center Street to State Highway 930
Mourey Street         West side  From Park Avenue to State Highway 930
Morris Street         South side  
Nelson Road           Both sides  
New Haven Avenue      Both sides Between State Highway 930 and Meyer Road
North Rufus Street    East side  From the north curb line of Rose Avenue to the
                                 intersection of Paul Stemmler Parkway
Oak Street            East side  From Lincoln Highway to State Highway 930
Park Boulevard        Both sides Between Williams Street and Edwards Street
Park Boulevard        North side East of Green Street
Pinestone Drive       West side  From Seiler Road to Dension Lane
Powers Street         Both sides  
Prospect Avenue       North side 100 feet east of the east curb of Edwards
                                 Street
Prospect Avenue       North side 107 feet west from the west curb of Williams
                                 Street
Railroad Street       North side Between Eben Street and Ann Street
Rose Avenue           Both sides  
Rufus Street          East side  From Bell Avenue to Powers Street
Rufus Street          East side  From the north curb line of Road Avenue to a
                                 point 370 feet north
Rufus Street          East side  From Seward Street to Rose Avenue
Rufus Street          West side  For 110 feet north of the north curb of Rose
                                 Avenue
Scarborough Drive     West side  Between Moeller and Stockbridgeway
Scott Street          East side  Between Powers Street and Rose Avenue
Scott Street          East side  Between Bell Avenue and Powers Street
Seward Street         North side Between Rufus Street and Ann Street
Seward Street         South side Between Rufus Street and Scott Street
Sherbrook Drive       West side   
South Maplecrest Road Both sides  
South Street          North side  
Sturm Street          West side  From Lincoln Highway to State Highway 930
Summit Street         Both sides From Ann Street to east terminus of Summit
                                 Street
Summit Street         South side Between Broadway and Ann Street
Union Street          Both sides East of Green Street
Williams Street       Both sides  
Woodmere Drive        East side   
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. II) (Res. R-00-4, passed 11-21-2000; Ord. G-00-13,
passed 12-12-2000; Res. R-09-01, passed 5-5-2009; Res. R-10-01, passed 5-3-
2010; Res. R-11-01, passed 8-12-2011; Res. R-12-01, passed 4-3-2012; Res. R-16-
02, passed 6-7-2016; Res. R-16-04, passed 8-2-2016; Ord. G-21-26, passed 12-7-
2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. DESIGNATED AREAS WHERE NO PARKING ALLOWED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   Parking is prohibited in the following areas at the following times:
 
Street          Side(s)    Location
Ann Street      West side  For 75 feet north of Main Street between the hours
                           of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. weekdays
Edwards Street  West side  From Park Avenue to Prospect Street between the
                           hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Homestead Drive West side  Between Park Avenue and State Hwy. 930 between the
                           hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. school days
Seward Street   South side Between Rufus Street and Ann Street between the
                           hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. school days
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. III) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see
§
70.999
SCHEDULE III. DESIGNATED TWO-HOUR PARKING ZONES.
   Parking is limited to two hours on the following:
Street Side(s) Location
Street        Side(s)    Location
Ann Street    West side  92 feet north of the centerline of Main Street
Broadway      East side  119 feet north of the north curb of Park Avenue
Broadway      East side  116 feet south of the south R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern
Broadway      East side  43 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern
Broadway      East side  114 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern to 219 feet north of the north R/W line
Broadway      East side  290 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern to 376 feet north of the north R/W line
Broadway      East side  504 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern to 569 feet north of the north R/W line
Broadway      East side  656 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern to 782 feet north of the north R/W line
Broadway      West side  192 feet north of the north curb of Park Avenue
Broadway      West side  113 feet south of the south R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern
Broadway      West side  66 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern
Broadway      West side  116 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern to 156 feet north of the north R/W line
Broadway      West side  306 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern to 371 feet north of the north R/W line
Broadway      West side  495 feet north of the north R/W line of the Norfolk
                         Southern to 568 feet north of the north R/W line
Main Street   Both sides From Ann Street to 100 feet west of Broadway
Summit Street North side From Broadway to Ann Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. IV) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE IV. RESTRICTED, IMPAIRED MOBILITY PARKING AREAS.
   The following places are hereby designated as restricted, impaired mobility
parking areas:
 
Street          Side(s)    Location
Ann Street      West side  From 92 feet north of the centerline of Main Street
                           to 112 feet north of the centerline of Main Street
Broadway        East side  From 156 feet north of the centerline of Park Avenue
                           to 177 feet north of the centerline of Park Avenue
Main Street     North side From 90 feet east of the centerline of Ann Street to
                           110 feet east of the centerline of Ann Street
                           From 107 feet west of the west curb of Williams
Prospect Avenue North side Street to 189 feet west of the west curb of Williams
                           Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. V) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Res. R-02-02,
passed 12-3-2002) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE V. DESIGNATED SNOW AND/OR ICE EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver or operator of any vehicle to
park or stop the same or to permit the same to be parked or to stand at any
time during the period of any snow and/or ice emergency on any of the routes or
streets listed as follows:
Street Location
Street            Location
Adams Center Road From State Highway 930 to Seiler Road
Berwick Lane      From Green Road east to Minnich Road
Broadway          From Park Avenue to Powers Street
Canal Street      From Eben Street east to the city’s Maintenance Building
Courtney Drive    From Brookwood Drive to Melbourne Drive
Eben Street       From Powers Street south to Summit Street
Hartzell Road     From Rose Avenue to Moeller Road
Keller Drive      From State Highway 930 to Lincoln Highway
Main Street       From Eben Street to Hartzell Road
Melbourne Drive   From Courtney Drive to Woodmere Drive
Moeller Road      From Minnich Road to Meyer Road
Park Avenue       From Mourey Street east to Green Road
Scarborough Drive From Moeller Road to Stockbridge Way
Shordon Road       
Sugarhill Run     From Northcove Drive to Seiler Road
Sunnymede Drive   From New Haven Avenue to Sunwood Drive
Tanglewood Drive  From Summit Street north to Rose Avenue
Werling Road      From State Highway 930 to Moeller Road
West Street       From Rose Avenue south to Main Street
Woodmere Drive    From Melbourne Drive to Moeller Road
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. VI) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE VI. STATE AND FEDERAL HIGHWAYS.
   The laws of the state regulating or prohibiting parking on public streets
shall apply to all streets or highways within the city, unless specifically
modified by city ordinance or the city’s Board of Public Works and Safety
resolution.
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. VII) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Designated streets where speed limits other than state speed limits apply
      
II.   Designated one-way streets and alleys
      
III.   Designated stop intersections
      
IV.   Designated all stop intersections
      
V.   Designated yield intersections
      
VI.   Designated truck routes
      
VII.   Designated hazardous materials routes
SCHEDULE I. DESIGNATED STREETS WHERE SPEED LIMITS OTHER THAN STATE SPEED LIMITS
APPLY.
   The speed limits shall be as follows upon the following streets:
   (A)   Twenty mph speed limit. The speed limit is 20 mph on:
A “school zone” is established for the following:
From a point 180 feet north of the intersection of Green Street and Park Avenue
extending to a point 150 feet south of the intersection of Berwick Lane and
Green Road.
From a point located at the intersection of Berwick Lane and Green Road and
extending to a point located 1,340 feet east of the intersection of Berwick
Lane and Green Road.
The speed limit shall be reduced to 20 miles per hour in the “school zone”
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. The
reduced speed limit shall be in effect during all week days when school is in
session and children are present.
Bell Avenue
Greenmoor Drive
Hoff Court
Kirklyn Drive
Norland Lane
North West Street
Oakton Lane
Paul Stemmler Drive
Rufus Street, North
Straford Road
Tanglewood Drive
Trailwood Lane
Tweedwood Drive
Twillo Run
Tyland Boulevard, North
Tyland Boulevard, South
Tyland Boulevard, West
Tylar Parkway
 
   (B)   Twenty-five mph speed limit. The speed limit is 25 mph on:
Street Location
Street                    Location
A “school zone” is established for the following:
From a point located 737 feet west of the intersection of State Road 930 and
Green Road extending to a point 562 feet east of the intersection of State Road
930 and Green Road.
The speed limit shall be reduced to 25 miles per hour in the "school zone" when
children are present.
Abbey Court                
Aberdeen Lane              
Adams Street               
Amberly Drive              
Ann Street                 
Aragon Mills Drive         
Archstone Chase            
Argyll Court               
Arrow Pass                 
Asbury Court               
Asbury Drive               
Ashford Boulevard          
Ayr Drive                  
Bade Street                
Bandelier Road             
Barbers Point              
Bartel Court               
Bay Point Cove             
Baywood Drive              
Bedford Drive              
Bensman Avenue             
Berwick Lane               
Birchpark Drive            
Blaising                   
Blue Slate Run             
Bonham Lane                
Bookcliff Cove             
Boulder Cove               
Boulder Ridge Drive        
Boulder Ridge Trail        
Braeburn Drive             
Brandford Drive            
Brant Point                
Brantley Court             
Brantley Drive             
Bridgewood Court           
Broadway                  From the intersection of Park Avenue to Powers Street
Brookdale Drive            
Brookmont Drive            
Brookwood Drive            
Camden Lane                
Camdenwood Drive           
Cameron Lane               
Campton Drive              
Canal Ridge Drive          
Canal Street               
Carmondy Crossing          
Casey Bluff Run            
Castlerock Drive           
Cedar Valley Drive         
Center Street              
Centerbrook Drive          
Centerstone Parkway        
Chamberlin Court           
Chapin Lane                
Cherokee Run               
Chesagan Court             
Chesnee Lane               
Chesterhills Court         
Chippewa Gap               
Claystone Cove             
Cobblestone Cove           
College Street             
Cornerstone Cove           
Cottonwood Drive           
Country Knoll              
Court Street               
Courtney Drive             
Crossland Lane             
Crosswood Court            
Crystal Cove Court         
Darby Lane                 
Darwood Grove              
Dellwood Drive             
Denison Lane               
Deveron Court              
Deveron Drive              
Douglas Lane               
Duart Court                
Duncastle Cove             
Dundee Drive               
Dunnagans Way              
Dunnmore Drive             
Eben Street                
Edge Rose Drive            
Edisto Drive               
Edwards Street             
Edwardsburg Place          
Elk Grove                  
Elkwood Court              
Elm Street                 
Erwin Lane                 
Falcon Way                 
Fenwick Drive              
Fieldstone Chase           
Forestdale Drive           
Fox Home Drive             
Ganton Court               
Garden Street              
Gateway Boulevard          
Glencoe Drive              
Glenrock Drive             
Golden Oak Drive           
Green Road                From the intersection of State Highway 930 to the
                          intersection of Moeller Road
Green Street              From the intersection of State Highway 930 to the
                          intersection of Powers Street
Greenmeadow Drive          
Greenmoor Drive            
Greenridge Way             
Greenstone Drive           
Greenwood Lakes Drive      
Greystone Cove             
Haney Court                
Hartzell Road             From Lincoln Highway to Rose Avenue
Hartzell Road             From a point 320 feet north of Old Orchard Trail to
                          the intersection of Lincoln Highway
Hartzell Street           From the intersection of Broadway to the intersection
                          of Green Street
Heathermoor Lane           
Heatherwood Lane           
Heine Court                
Henry Street               
Herrin Drive               
High Street                
Highland Terrace Drive     
Hollendale Drive           
Homestead Drive            
Houston Drive              
Idlewood Drive             
Iron Rock Chase            
Iroquois Trace             
Isabelle Drive             
Jackemeyer Lane            
Jonathan Place             
Juniper Ridge Cove         
Keelboat Cove              
Keller Drive              From the intersection of State Highway 930 to the
                          intersection of Lincoln Highway
Killmallie Lane            
Kirkmore Drive             
Knox Lane                  
Koehlinger Drive           
Lake Shore Court           
Landin Meadows Drive       
Landin Meadows Run         
Landin Parke Drive         
Landin Pointe Boulevard    
Linden Road                
Lockport Way               
Lopshire Drive             
Lost Lock Way              
MacGregor Drive            
MacPherson Drive           
Main Street               From the intersection of State Street to the
                          intersection of Eben Street
Main Street               From the intersection of State Street to the
                          intersection of Hartzell Road
Maplebluff Court           
Matthew Spring Run         
Maumee Road               Between Estella Avenue and State Highway 930
McConnel Drive             
Medford Drive              
Melbourne Court            
Melbourne Drive            
Middle Street              
Middleboro Place           
Montclair Drive            
Morris Street              
Mourey Street              
Nautical Way               
Navajo Crossing            
New Lake Trail             
Newgate Court              
North Country Knoll        
North Park Drive           
Northcove Drive            
Oak Street                 
Olivene Cove               
Orkney Lane                
Park Avenue                
Park Boulevard             
Pawnee Court               
Pawnee Way                 
Pebble Way                 
Pinelock Court             
Pinepark Pass              
Pinestone Drive            
Placid Park Drive          
Presidential Drive         
Professional Park Drive    
Prospect Avenue            
Railroad Street            
Richfield Drive            
Ridgeview Avenue           
Rolling Meadows Lane       
Rose Avenue               From the intersection of Landin Road to the
                          intersection of Green Street
Rose Avenue               From the intersection of Landin Road to the
                          intersection of Hartzell Road
Royalton Drive             
Rufus Street               
Runaway Cove               
Ruthton Drive              
Sandstone Court            
Sara Circle                
Sara Drive                 
Scarborough Drive          
Schnelker Court            
Scots Lane                 
Scott Street               
Sea View Court             
Seneca Street             From the intersection of State Highway 930 to the
                          intersection of Lincoln Highway
Seward Street              
Shannon Drive              
Shawnee Drive              
Sherbrook Court            
Sherbrook Drive            
Shoreline Boulevard        
Short Street               
Silver Birch Cove          
Silver Rock Chase          
Sioux Point                
Slate Run                  
South Country Knoll        
South Park Drive           
South Street               
South Walnut Ridge         
Springbrook Drive          
State Street               
Stockbridge Way            
Sturm Avenue               
Sturm Street               
Sugarhill Court            
Sugarhill Run              
Summit Street             From the intersection of Broadway to the intersection
                          of Linden Road
Sun Stone Run              
Sunnymede Drive            
Sunpointe Cove             
Sunriver Court             
Sunriver Lane              
Sunwood Drive              
Sussex Drive               
Sweetwater Court           
Tartan Court               
Tartan Lane                
Thyme Court                
Timber Creek Parkway       
Towpath Court              
Trailwood Lane             
Union Street               
Valley Creek Drive         
Valley Creek Run           
Vista Park                 
Walnut Ridge Drive         
Waterside Court            
Wealthwood Drive           
West Circle Drive          
West Street               From the intersection of Rose Avenue to the
                          intersection of Main Street
West Street               North of Lincoln Highway to terminus
Westport Cove              
Whitepine Drive (Ashford)  
Williams Street            
Willow Bay Drive           
Wilson Drive               
Windbur Place              
Winding Shores Drive       
Windsail Cove              
Wintergreen Way            
Woodfield Run              
Woodmere Drive             
Woodridge Drive            
Woodruff Court             
Wyntree Cove               
Zelt Cove                  
 
   (C)   Thirty mph speed limit. The speed limit is 30 mph on:
Bremer Road
Declaration Drive
Derek Drive
Estella Avenue
John Adams Drive
Patrick Henry Way
Quemetco Court
Sheridan Road
Todd Drive
Trafalgar Street
Wayne Haven Street
 
   (D)   Thirty-five mph speed limit. The speed limit is 35 mph on:
Street Location
Street          Location
                From centerline of Highway U.S. 30 at Doyle Road, south to a
Doyle Road      point located at the north right-of-way of Moeller Road (both
                points being the current city limits)
Doyle Road      Between Edgerton Road and Dawkins Road
Green           From Moeller Road to south city limits
Landin Road     From Powers Street to 500 feet north of the centerline of North
                River Road
Lincoln Highway From the junction of Lincoln Highway and State Highway 930,
                east to a point 450 feet east of the centerline of Minnich Road
Minnich Road    From the intersection of Lincoln Highway to the intersection of
                Seiler Road
Nelson Road      
Powers Street   From Green Street to Broadway
Rose Avenue     From Green Street to Linden Road
Summit Street   From the east boundary line of Tanglewood Addition to terminus
Werling Road     
 
   (E)   Forty mph speed limit. The speed limit is 40 mph on:
Street Location
Street             Location
Adams Center Road   
Dawkins Road       From a point 450 feet east of the centerline of Minnick
                   Road, east to the city limits
Edgerton Road      Between Doyle Road and Interstate 469
Hartzell Road      From a point 320 feet north of Old Orchard Trail to Moeller
                   Road
Maumee Road        From the intersection of Estella Avenue to the intersection
                   of Meyer Road
Meyer Road          
Moeller Road       From Green Road to the west city limits being located 200
                   feet west of Cedar Valley Drive
Moeller Road       From Meyer Road to 2,640 feet east of Adams Center Road
New Haven Avenue    
North River Road   From Landin Road to 1,232 feet west of intersection of
                   Landin Road
North River Road   From 1,420 feet east of the centerline of Landin Road to
                   3,195 feet east of the centerline of Landin Road
Parent Road        From Long Road to Landin Road
Ryan Road          Between Edgerton Road and Norfolk and Southern Railroad
                   tracks
                   From a point 155 feet west of the intersection of Timber
Seiler Road        Creek Parkway to a point located 525 feet east of Pinestone
                   Drive
Seiler Road        From the intersection of Green Road and Seiler Road to the
                   intersection of Minnich Road and Seiler Road
Shordon Road       From Long Road to Landin Road
South Webster Road Between Edgerton Road and E&W tracks
State Highway 930  From Oak Street to Koehlinger Drive
 
   (F)   Forty-five mph speed limit. The speed limit is 45 mph on the following
portions of streets:
Street Location
Street             Location
Dawkins Road       From the intersection of Dawkins Road and Doyle Road to a
                   point 450 feet east of Minnich Road
East Paulding Road From the intersection of Minnich Road and the city limits
Edgerton Road      Between N&S tracks right-of-way, east to the current city
                   limits
Edgerton Road      Between N&S tracks and South Webster Road
Maplecrest Road    From SR 930 north to the city limits
Minnich Road       From Seiler Road to a point 2,700 feet south of the
                   intersection of Seiler Road and Minnich Road
                   From the intersection of Oak Street to the intersection of
State Highway 930  Meyer Road Dawkins Road from a point 450 feet east of the
                   centerline of Minnich Road, east to the city limits
State Highway 930  From Koehlinger Drive to a point located 1,320 feet east of
                   the intersection of Minnich Road and State Highway 930
 
   (G)   Fifty-five mph speed limit. The speed limit is 55 mph on the following
portions of street:
 
Street          Location
                From a point located 1,320 feet east of the intersection of
U.S. Highway 30 Minnich Road and U.S. Highway 30 to the intersection of U.S.
                Highway 30 and Doyle Road (eastern city limits)
 
   (H)   Seventy mph speed limit.
 
Street Location
I-469  From the intersection of U.S. Highway 30 and I-469 north to the
       intersection of I-469 and the city limits
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. I) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Res. R-01-1,
passed 8-7-2001; Res. R-02-02, passed 12-3-2002; Res. R-05-02, passed 7-5-2005;
Res. R-09-01, passed 5-5-2009; Res. R-01-1, passed 8-20-2001; Res. R-12-02,
passed 4-3-2012; Res. R-12-03, passed 11-20-2012; Res. R-16-02, passed 6-7-
2016; Res. R-16-04, passed 8-2-2016; Res. R-17-01, passed 6-20-2017; Res. R-18-
1, passed 10-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. DESIGNATED ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
The following streets or portions of streets and alleys shall be for one-way
traffic only in the direction indicated:
 
Street            Location                       Direction(s)
Summit Street     Between Broadway and Ann       Easterly
                  Street shall
                                                 Northerly on the east side of
Scarborough Drive Between Moeller and Sweetwater the median and travel only in
                  Court                          a southerly direction on the
                                                 west side of the median
                                                 Northerly direction on the
                  Between North Tyland Boulevard east side of the median and
Tanglewood Drive  and Rose Avenue                travel only in a southerly
                                                 direction on the west side of
                                                 the median
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. II) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE III. DESIGNATED STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are designated as stop intersections:
Stop Streets Through Streets
Stop Streets                 Through Streets
Aberdeen Lane                Green Road
Adams Street                 Summit Street
Amberly Drive                Rolling Meadows Lane
Ann Street                   Powers Street
Ann Street                   Bell Avenue
Ann Street                   Main Street
Ann Street                   Summit Street
Aragon Mills Drive           Landin Road
Aragon Mills Drive           Chesnee Lane
Archstone Cove               Centerstone Parkway
Argyll Court                 Berwick
Ashford Boulevard            Moeller Road
Bade Street                  Rose Avenue
Barbers Point                Seiler Road
Bartel Court                 Castlerock Drive
Baypoint Cove                Westport Drive
Bell Avenue                  Broadway
Bell Avenue                  Green Street
Bensman Avenue               Summit Street
Berwick Lane                 Green Road
Berwick Lane                 Minnich Road
Blue Slate Cove              Erwin Lane
Boulder Ridge Drive          Boulder Ridge Trail
Boulder Ridge Trail          Linden Road
Brant Point                  Ashford Boulevard
Brantley Drive               Landin Meadows Run
Bremer Road                  New Haven Avenue
Broadway                     Park Avenue
Brookdale Drive              Brookwood Drive
Brueggemann Drive            Moeller Drive
Camden Lane                  Castlerock Drive
Camden Lane                  Duncastle Cove
Camdenwood Drive             Pinelock Court
Cameron Lane                 Minnich Road
Canal Street                 Green Street
Canal Ridge Drive            Summit Street
Carmondy Crossing            Fenwick Drive
Carmondy Crossing            Haney Court
Carmondy Crossing            Pinestone Drive
Casey Bluff Run              Brantley Drive
Casey Bluff Run (eastbound)  Landon Meadows Run
Casey Bluff Run (westbound)  Landon Meadows Run
Casey Place                  Brantley Drive
Castlerock Drive             Edisto Drive
Castlerock Drive             Seiler Road
Cedarvalley Drive            Moeller Road
Chamberlain Court            Brookdale Drive
Chapin Lane                  Camden Lane
Chesagan Court               Chesnee Lane
Chesterhills Court           Jackemeyer Lane
Chippewas Gap                Werling Road
Claystone Cove               Graystone Cove
Cobblestone Cove             Slate Run
College Street               State Highway 930
College Street               Lincoln Highway
Cornerstone Cove             Crossland Lane
Court Street                 Rose Avenue
Courtney                     Brookwood Drive
Crossland Lane               Centerstone Parkway (cul-de-sac)
Crossland Lane               Centerstone Parkway
Crosswood Court              Woodcliff Drive
Darwood Grove                Wealthwood Drive
Declaration Drive            Doyle Road
Dellwood Drive               New Haven Avenue
Denison Way                  Pinestone Drive
Deveron Drive                Green Road
Doyle Road                   Dawkins Road
Duncastle Cove               Dunnmore Drive
Dundee Drive                 Berwick
Dunnagans Way                Chesnee Lane
East Paulding Road           Minnich Road
Eben Street                  Rose Avenue
Eben Street                  Summit Street
Eben Street                  Powers Street
Edgerose Drive               Hollendale Drive
Edgerton Road                South Webster Road
Edgerton Road                Ryan Road
Edisto Drive                 Chapin Lane
Edwardsburg Place            Rolling Meadows Lane
Elm Street                   Mourey Street
Elm Street                   Green Street
Estella Avenue               State Highway 930
Estella Avenue               Nelson Road
Fenwick Drive                Pinestone Drive
Fieldstone Chase             Sun Stone Run
Fieldstone Chase             Greystone Cove
Foxhome Drive                Long Road
Ganton Court                 Camden Lane
Garden Street                Lincoln Highway
Gateway Boulevard            Minnich Road
Golden Oak Drive             Timber Creek Parkway
Greenmoor Drive              Green Road
Greenmoor Drive              Centerstone Parkway
Greenridge Way               Carmondy Crossing
Greenstone Drive             Minnich Road
Hartzell Road                Rose Avenue
Hartzell Road                Norfolk Southern R.R. North Crossing
Hartzell Street              Green Street
Hartzell Street              Broadway
Havenway Drive               Werling Road
Heatherwood Lane             Hartzell Road
Heine Court                  Berwick
Henry Street                 Rose Avenue
Henry Street                 Powers Street
Henry Street                 Summit Street
Herrin Drive                 Bonham Lane
High Street                  Main Street
High Street                  Lincoln Highway
Highland Terrace Drive       State Highway 930
Hollendale Drive             Parent Road
Homestead Drive              Lincoln Highway
Homestead Drive              State Highway 930
Homestead Drive              Park Avenue
Houston Drive                Brookwood Drive
Houston Drive                Courtney Drive
Iron Rock Chase              Crossland Lane
Isabelle Drive               Minnich Road
Jackemeyer Lane              Greenwood Lakes Drive
Jackemeyer Lane              Seiler Road
Jonathan Place               Rolling Meadows Lane
Juniper Ridge Cove           Timber Creek Parkway
Keller Drive                 State Highway 930
Keller Drive                 Lincoln Highway
Killmallie Lane              Green Road
Kirklynn Drive               Moeller Road
Kirkmore Drive               Melbourne Drive
Kirkmore Drive               Woodmere Drive
Koehlinger Drive             State Highway 930
Lake Shore Court             Ashford Boulevard
Lan Dera Drive               Brookwood Drive
Landin Meadows Drive         Parent Road
Landin Meadows Run           Matthew Springs Run
Landin Meadows Run           Parent Road
Landin Meadows Run Drive     Maysville Road
Landin Parke Drive           Landin Road
Landin Pointe Boulevard      Landin Road
Lawn Avenue                  Green Road
Linden Road                  Rose Avenue
Lockport Way                 Linden Road
Main Street extended         Main Street
Main Street                  Hartzell Road
Main Street                  Norfolk Southern Railway Crossing
Maple Bluff Court            Hollendale Drive
Matthew Spring Run           Landin Meadows Run
Maumee Road                  State Highway 930
Maumee Road (South)          Estella Avenue
McConnell Drive              Lincoln Highway
McPherson Drive              Berwick
Medford Drive                New Haven Avenue
Meyer Road                   Oxford Street
Middle Street                Green Street
Middle Street                Broadway
Middleboro Place             Rolling Meadows Lane
Minnich Road                 Lincoln Highway
Minnich Road                 State Highway 930
Montclair Drive              Melbourne Drive
Mourey Street                Lincoln Highway
Mourey Street                Main Street
Nelson Road                  Hartzell Road
Nelson Road                  Estella Avenue
New Haven Avenue             Dellwood Drive
New Haven Avenue             Sunnymede Drive
New Lake Trail               Seiler Road
Norland Lane                 Moeller Road
North Country Knoll          Green Road
North River Road             Landin Road
North Tyland Boulevard       Tanglewood Drive
North West Street            Rose Avenue
Oak Street                   Lincoln Highway
Oak Street                   State Highway 930
Oakton Lane                  Moeller Road
Olivene Cove                 Slate Run
Orchard Avenue               Green Road
Parent Road                  Landin Road
Parent Road                  Long Road
Park Avenue                  Mourey Street
Park Avenue                  Green Street
Park Boulevard               Green Road
Paul Stemmler Parkway        North Rufus Street
Pebble Way                   Fieldstone Chase
Pinestone Drive              Falcon Way
Pinestone Drive              Seiler Road
Placid Park Drive            Landin Road
Powers Street                Green Street
Powers Street                Broadway
Professional Park Drive      Werling Road
Prospect Avenue              Homestead Drive
Richfield Drive              Minnich Road
Ridgeview Avenue             Dellwood Drive
Rolling Meadow Lane          Shordon Road
Rose Avenue                  Green Street
Rufus Street                 Rose Avenue
Rufus Street                 Powers Street
Rufus Street                 Seward Street
Runabay Cove                 Heathermoor Lane
Ruthton Drive                Rolling Meadows Lane
Ruthton Drive                Hollendale Drive
Sandstone Court              Hollendale Drive
Scarborough Drive            Moeller Road
Scots Lane                   Berwick
Scott Street                 Rose Avenue
Scott Street                 Powers Street
Seaview Court                Shoreline Drive
Seiler Road                  Adams Center Road
Seiler Road                  Minnich Road
Seneca Street                Lincoln Highway
Seneca Street                State Highway 930
Seward Street                Rufus Street
Seward Street                Henry Street
Sherbrook Drive              Melbourne Drive
Sherbrook Drive              Moeller Road
Sheridan Road                New Haven Avenue
Shordon Road                 Landin Road
Shordon Road                 Long Road
Shoreline Boulevard          Ashford Boulevard/Nautical Way
Shoreline Boulevard          Seiler Road
Short Street                 Lincoln Highway
Silver Birch Cove (North)    Timber Creek Parkway
Silver Birch Cove (South)    Timber Creek Parkway
Slate Run                    Minnich Road
Slate Run                    Pebble Way
South Berthaud Road          Edgerton Road
South Country Knoll          Green Road
State Street                 Main Street
State Street                 Lincoln Highway
Straford Road                Werling Road
Sturm Street                 Rose Avenue
Sturm Avenue                 Lincoln Highway
Sturm Avenue                 State Highway 930
Sugarhill Run                Seiler Road
Summit Street                Green Street
Sunnymede Drive              New Haven Avenue
Sunpointe Cove               Landin Parke Drive
Sunriver Lane                Landin Pointe Boulevard
Sunriver Lane                Sunriver Court
Sunwood Drive                Medford Drive
Sussex Drive                 Houston Drive
Tanglewood Drive             Summit Street
Tanglewood Drive             Rose Avenue
Tartan Lane                  Berwick
Thyme Court                  Moeller Road
Timber Creek Parkway         Seiler Road
Todd Drive                   Meyer Road
Twillo Run                   Summit Street
Union Street                 Green Street
Union Street                 Broadway
Valley Creek Drive           Werling Road
Walnut Ridge Drive           Hartzell Road
Wayne Haven Street           State Highway 930
Wealthwood Drive             Long Road
Werling Road                 Moeller Road
West Circle Drive            Brookdale Drive
West Circle Drive            Brookwood Drive
West Street                  Rose Avenue
West Street                  Lincoln Highway
West Street                  Norfolk Southern Railway Crossing
Westport Drive               Nautical Way
Whitepine Drive (northbound) Moeller Road
Whitepine Drive              Westport Drive
Willow Bay Drive             Green Road
Wilson Drive                 Adams Center Road
Windbur Place                Rolling Meadows Lane
Windsail Cove                Heathermoor Lane
Woodfield Run                Seiler Road
Woodmere Drive               Moeller Road
Woodridge Drive              Werling Road
Zelt Cove                    Denison Way
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. III) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Res. R-02-02,
passed 12-3-2002; Res. R-05-02, passed 7-5-2005; Res. R-12-03, passed 11-20-
2012; Res. R-13-04, passed 10-15-2013; Res. R-16- 02, passed 6-7-2016; Res. R-
18-1, passed 10-2-2018)
SCHEDULE IV. DESIGNATED ALL STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following are designated as all stop intersections:
 
Edgerton Road and Doyle Road
Green Road and Moeller Road
Green Road and Seiler Road
Green Street and Rose Avenue
Ryan Road and Edgerton Road
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. IIIA) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Res. R-12-
03, passed 11-20-2012; Res. R-16-02, passed 6-7-2016; Res. R-18-1, passed 10-2-
2018)
SCHEDULE V. DESIGNATED YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersection are designated as yield intersections:
Yield Through Streets
Yield                  Through Streets
Abbey Court            Ayr Drive
Aberdeen Lane          Highland Terrace Drive
Adams Street           Middle Street
Adams Street           Union Street
Ann Street             Middle Street
Argyll Court           Cameron Lane
Arrow Pass             Shawnee Trail
Asbury Court           Asbury Drive
Asbury Drive           Kirkmore Drive
Asbury Drive           Woodmere Drive
Ayr Drive              East MacGregor Drive
Bay Point Cove         Westport Drive
Baywood Drive          Woodmere Drive
Baywood Drive          Sherbrook Drive
Bedford Drive          Woodmere Drive
Bedford Drive          Woodridge Drive
Birchpark Drive        Woodridge Drive
Braeburn Drive         Asbury Drive
Braeburn Drive         Kirkmore Drive
Brandford Court        Courtney Drive
Brant Point            Ashford Boulevard
Brookmont Drive        Campton Drive
Canal Street           Eben Street
Center Street          State Street
Center Street          High Street
Cherokee Run           Pawnee Way
Cherokee Run           Arrow Pass
Chippewa Gap           Cherokee Run
Claystone Cove         Greystone Cove
College Street         Park Avenue
Darby Lane             Richfield Drive
Derek Drive            Wayne Haven Street
Deveron Court          Deveron Drive
Douglas Lane           Heine Court
Douglas Lane           Argyll Court
Duart Court            Ayr Drive
Dundee Drive           Scots Lane
Dundee Drive           Killmallie Lane
Dundee Drive           Deveron Drive
East MacGregor Drive   Orkney Lane
Eben Street            Seward Street
Eben Street            Bell Avenue
Edwards Street         Park Avenue
Elk Grove Court        Valley Creek Run
Elm Street             Garden Street
Elm Street             College Street
Elm Street             South State Street
Forestdale Drive       Whitepine Drive
Garden Street          Park Avenue
Glencoe Drive          Scots Lane
Greenmeadow Drive      Birchpark Drive
Greenmeadow Drive      Whitepine Drive
Greenmeadow Drive      Cedar Valley Drive
Greenmoor Drive        Scarborough Drive
Greenridge Way         Caramondy Crossing
Greenstone Drive       Ayr Drive
Henry Street           Seward Street
Henry Street           Bell Avenue
Henry Street           Main Street
Henry Street           Middle Street
Henry Street           Railroad Street
Highland Terrace Drive Glencoe Drive
Hoff Court             North West Street
Kirkland Drive         Glenmoor Drive
Knox Lane              East MacGregor Drive
Lake Shore Court       Ashford Boulevard
Landin Road            Maysville Road
Lost Lock Way          Canal Ridge Drive
Maple Bluff            Wealthwood Drive
Melbourne Court        Melbourne Drive
Melbourne Drive        Sara Drive
Middle Street          Eben Street
Mourey Street          Center Street
Morris Street          Oak Street
Navajo Crossing        Iroquois Trace
Navajo Crossing        Arrow Pass
New Lake Trail         Winding Shores Drive
Newgate Court          Sugarhill Run
Norland Lane           Greenmoor Drive
Northcove Drive        Sugarhill Court/Run
Northcove Drive        Waterside Court
Oak Street             South Street
Orkney Lane            Killmallie Lane
Pawnee Court           Pawnee Way
Presidential Drive     Sara Drive
Presidential Drive     Bedford Drive
Quemetco Court         Wayne Haven Street
Railroad Street        Eben Street
Richfield Drive        Knox Lane
Ridgeview Avenue       Sunnymede Drive
Rufus Street           Bell Avenue
Sara Circle            Melbourne Drive
Sara Drive             Sherbrook Drive
Schnelker Court        Elm Street
Scots Lane             Aberdeen Lane
Scott Street           Bell Avenue
Seaview Court          Shoreline Drive
Seward Street          Scott Street
Shannon Drive          Bedford Drive
Shannon Drive          Sara Drive
Sherbrook Court        Sherbrook Drive
Sherbrook Drive        Baywood Drive
Short Street           Hartzell Street
Sioux Point            Arrow Pass
South MacGregor Drive  Deveron Drive
South Park Drive       Koehlinger Drive
South Street           State Street
South Street           West Street
South Tyland Boulevard Tanglewood Drive
Springbrook Drive      Bedford Drive
Springbrook Drive      Sara Drive
Stockbridge Way        Northcove Drive
Stockbridge Way        Scarborough Drive
Summit Street          Linden Road
Sunwood Drive          Dellwood Drive
Sunwood Drive          Sunnymede Drive
Sweetwater Court       Scarborough Drive
Tartan Court           Tartan Lane
Tartan Lane            Killmallie Lane
Towpath Court          Canal Ridge Drive
Trafalgar Street       Wayne Haven Street
Trailwood Lane         Tweedwood Drive
Trailwood Lane         Lost Lock Way
Tweedwood Drive        Tanglewood Drive
Twillo Run             South Tyland Boulevard
Twillo Run             North Tyland Boulevard
Tylar Parkway          South Tyland Boulevard
Tylar Parkway          Twillo Run
Vista Park Drive       Valley Creek Run
West Street            Main Street
Williams Street        Park Avenue
Willow Bay Drive       Winding Shores Drive
Winding Shores Drive   Bridgewood Court
Woodruff Court         Sugarhill Run
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. IV) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Res. R-02-02,
passed 12-3-2002; R-05-02, passed 7-5-2005; Res. R-16-02, passed 6-7-2016; Res.
R-18-1, passed 10-2-2018)
SCHEDULE VI. DESIGNATED TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following streets are hereby designated as truck route streets:
Street Location
Street            Location
All United States highways, interstate highways and state roads within the
city limits
Adams Center Road  
Broadway          From Landin Road to Lincoln Highway
Dawkins Road       
Edgerton Road     Between N&S tracks right-of-way, east to the current city
                  limits
Edgerton Road     Between N&S tracks and South Webster Road
Estella Avenue    Between Old Maumee Road and Nelson Road
Hartzell Road      
Landin Road        
Lincoln Highway    
Linden Road        
Main Street       Between Hartzell Road and the Norfolk Southern Railroad
                  Crossing
Maumee Road       From Meyer Road to Estella Avenue
Meyer Road         
Minnich Road       
Moeller Road      From Adams Center Road, west to the corporate limits
Nelson Road        
New Haven Avenue   
Rose Avenue       From Linden Road to the east city limits
Ryan Road          
Summit Street     From Linden Road, east to terminus
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. V) (Res. R-99-3, passed 4-6-1999; Ord. G-00-13,
passed 12-12-2000; Res. R-05-02, passed 7-5-2005; Res. R-13-03, passed 3-19-
2013; Res. R-16-02, passed 6-7-2016; Res. R-17-01, passed 6-20-2017; Res. R-18-
1, passed 10-2-2018)
SCHEDULE VII. DESIGNATED HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
The following state and federal highways are hereby designated as hazardous
materials routes:
 
Indiana Highway 930
Interstate 469
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. VI) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles and Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.01   State law
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Prohibited operation
   
73.04   Permitted operation
   
73.05   Emergency operation
Mopeds and Pocket Bikes
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Effect
   
73.22   Application of state traffic laws and obedience to traffic devices
   
73.23   Alteration restrictions
   
73.24   Operation, passengers, safety and parking
   
73.25   Equipment and proper identification
   
73.26   Rental agencies
   
73.27   Pocket bikes
 
   
73.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.01 STATE LAW.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-22 and is supplemental
to and shall be construed in conjunction with I.C. 14-16-1-22 as from time to
time hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY, STREET or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines
of every right-of-way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle capable of cross country travel,
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited
to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious machine,
ground effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation deriving
motive power from a source other than muscle or wind. It does not include a
lawn mower while being used for mowing, a farm vehicle being used for farming,
a vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes, construction, mining
or other industrial related vehicles used in performance of its common function
or a registered aircraft.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or title
to a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle entitled to the use or possession
thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and any of its
agencies, or subdivisions, and any body or persons whether incorporated or not.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any motor-driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice or a type which utilizes sled type runners or skis, or an endless belt
tread or any combination of these or other similar means of contact with the
surface upon which it is operated.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 73.03 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   An off-road vehicle may not be operated:
   (A)   On the public right-of-way adjacent to the traveled portion of the
public highway, except as provided herein;
   (B)   On the private property of another without the express permission to
do so by the owner or lawful occupant of said property;
   (C)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreation areas
and/or golf courses, without the express permission to do so by the proper
public or other authority;
   (D)   In any manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise,
so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons; or
   (E)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., an off-road vehicle may be
operated along the edge of streets, highways or alleys within the city limits
at a speed not in excess of the maximum speed at which licensed motor vehicles
may be operated at such place for the sole and only purpose of transporting
said off- road vehicle from the place of residence of the person operating said
off-road vehicle or the place of storage of said vehicle to the nearest point
where said off-road vehicle may be lawfully operated outside the city limits or
at such place within the city limits as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 EMERGENCY OPERATION.
   The Police Chief of the city authorizes use of an off-road vehicle on the
public highways, streets and the right-of-way within the city during
emergencies pursuant to I.C. 14-16-2-21(4).
(Prior Code, § 73.05) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
MOPEDS AND POCKET BIKES
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOPED.
         (a)   Any two or three wheeled vehicle that is propelled by an
internal combustion engine or a battery powered motor, or by both, and, if
powered by an internal combustion engine, has the following:
            1.   An engine rating of not more than two horsepower and a
cylinder capacity not exceeding 49 cubic centimeters (49cc);
            2.   An automatic transmission; and
            3.   A maximum design speed of no more than 25 mph on a flat
surface.
         (b)   The term SCOOTER shall be interchangeable with the term MOPED.
Specifically excluded from the definition of MOPED are the following:
            1.   Any two- or three-wheeled vehicle exceeding the above
specifications and deemed to be a motorcycle required to be registered with and
by the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
            2.   An electric personal assistive mobility device, presently
defined in I.C. 9-13-2-49.3;
            3.   An off-road vehicle, otherwise known as all-terrain vehicle
(ATV), presently defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, and required to be registered by
the Department of Natural Resources under I.C. 4-16-1 or any other applicable
state law; and
            4.   A motorized vehicle manufactured as a child’s toy and that has
a top speed of no more than five mph.
      POCKET BIKE.
         (a)   Also referred to a POCKET ROCKET. Any wheeled device ridden by a
person or used as transportation, powered or assisted by anyone board power
source other than the rider’s own physical efforts that has a handlebar height
of 30 inches or less, measured from the highest point of the handlebar, or a
seat height of 24 inches or less, as measured from the highest point of the
horizontal seat surface actually designed to bear the weight of the rider.
         (b)   Specifically excluded from the definition of POCKET BIKE are the
following:
            1.   Any two- or three-wheeled vehicle deemed to be a motorcycle to
be registered with and by a state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
            2.   An electric personal assistive mobility device presently
defined in I.C. 9-13-2-49.3;
            3.   An off-road vehicle, otherwise known as all-terrain vehicle
(ATV), presently defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, and required by the Department of
Natural Resources under I.C. 14-16-1; and
            4.   A motorized vehicle manufactured as a child’s toy and that has
a top speed of no more than five mph.
      ROADWAY. Any highway, road, public way, street or alley and shall include
any street designated as a parkway, boulevard, place, avenue or other similar
designation, all of which are within the city’s corporate limits.
   (B)   Terms used in this subchapter not specifically defined shall have the
meanings as set forth in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, I.C.
9-13 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 76.01) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 73.21 EFFECT.
   (A)   It is a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this subchapter. This subchapter shall apply to any
person who operate mopeds or pocket bikes within the city corporate limits.
   (B)   The parent or guardian of any child under the age of 18 shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter is applicable to mopeds and pocket bikes and shall
apply whenever a moped or pocket bike is operated on any and all roadways,
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public ways within the city or on any path set
aside for the exclusive use of mopeds within the city, subject to those
exceptions or prohibitions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 76.02) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 APPLICATION OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every person riding a moped on a roadway in the city shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the operator of a vehicle by the
laws of this state declaring sections of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the traffic ordinances of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle, in
addition to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances, which by their nature can have no
application.
      (2)   Any person disobeying the traffic control devices or signs, or
violating state statutes while operating a moped shall receive a citation for
an infraction.
   (B)   A moped may not be operated:
      (1)   By a person less than 15 years of age;
      (2)   By a person who has not obtained a state-issued identification
card, learner’s permit, operator’s license, chauffeur’s license or a public
passenger chauffeurs’s license;
      (3)   On an interstate highway or a sidewalk; or
      (4)   At a speed greater than 25 mph.
   (C)   (1)   A police officer having probable cause to believe a person has
violated division (B)(1) or (B)(2) above may immediately impound the moped as
evidence.
      (2)   If no action has been filed in court to enforce the violation of
this section, or if there is proof that the fine has been paid, or unless proof
is provided that no violation has occurred, the Police Department shall allow
the owner to retrieve the moped bicycle within 45 days of its seizure.
      (3)   The Police Department shall also allow the owner to retrieve the
moped bicycle if accompanied by the legal guardian in the case of an underage
operator.
(Prior Code, § 76.03) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-21-11-12
§ 73.23 ALTERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The owner, if 18 years or older, or the parent or guardian of a minor,
who is the owner of a moped shall not alter or allow the alteration of the OEM
exhaust system, which permits loud exhaust.
   (B)   An owner, if 18 years or older, or the parent or guardian of a minor,
who owns a moped with an engine that has been manufactured, converted, modified
or altered to the degree that the moped qualifies as a motorcycle under Indiana
Code (where the engine rating exceeds more than two horsepower, the cylinder
capacity exceeds more than 49 cubic centimeters (49cc), or the maximum design
speed exceeds 25 mph on a flat surface) shall be required to:
      (1)   Properly register, license and insure said vehicle as a motorcycle
pursuant to state law (presently I.C. 9-29-5) or shall be required to properly
register, license and insure said vehicle as a privately assembled vehicle
pursuant to state law (presently I.C. 9-17-4); and
      (2)   Hold a state-issued motorcycle operator’s license, learner’s permit
or endorsement pursuant to state law (presently I.C. 9-24-8).
(Prior Code, § 76.04) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 OPERATION, PASSENGERS, SAFETY AND PARKING.
   (A)   Every person operating a moped on a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons operating mopeds on a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of mopeds.
   (C)   No moped shall be operated on a sidewalk, railroad right-of-way or
park trail or sidewalk.
   (D)   No moped shall be operated on another’s private property, unless the
expressed written consent has been obtained from the owner of the real estate
or unless written notice has been posted on the private real estate.
   (E)   No person shall operate a moped in a manner so as to create loud,
unnecessary or unusual noise so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and
quiet of other persons.
   (F)   A person operating a moped shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. A passenger on a moped shall not
ride other than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto. All
persons operating or riding as a passenger must be able to keep his or her feet
firmly on the foot boards or foot pegs while sitting comfortably on the seat or
saddle.
   (G)   No moped shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, as designed with an additional
set of foot boards or foot pegs.
   (H)   No moped shall be used to carry a child under the age of 15 years
unless the operator is the legal guardian or has written permission of the
legal guardian. No passenger shall be permitted to ride in front of the
operator. A police officer having probable cause to believe a person has
violated this division (H) may immediately impound the moped as evidence. If no
action has been filed in court to enforce the violation of this section, or if
there is proof that the fine has been paid, or unless proof is provided that no
violation has occurred, the Police Department shall allow the owner to retrieve
the moped within 45 days of its seizure. The Police Department shall also allow
the owner to retrieve the moped bicycle if accompanied by the legal guardian in
the case of an underage operator.
   (I)   No person shall operate a moped at a speed that is greater than
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. In no case shall a
person operate a moped at a speed greater than 25 mph. In the event the speed
of a moped shall cause excess traffic of two or more vehicles to be backed up
behind the moped, the moped operator shall pull over and allow the traffic to
pass.
   (J)   The operator of a moped emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, on approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area and on entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
   (K)   No person shall propel or operate a moped in any unsafe manner,
including, but not limited to, weaving or swerving over the road, cutting
through traffic, changing lanes excessively, following other vehicles too
closely, accelerating excessively or dangerously or jumping curbs or speed-
bumps.
   (L)   All wheels of all mopeds must be on the surface being ridden upon at
all times such moped is in operation.
   (M)   No person operating a moped shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping all hands on the handlebars.
   (N)   No person shall park a moped on a street other than on the roadway
against the curb or against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to
afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 76.05) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 EQUIPMENT AND PROPER IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Every moped, when in use after dusk, shall be equipped with a front
lamp which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be
visible from all distances from 500 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting
a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in
addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every moped shall be equipped with working turn signals, muffler,
brakes and brake lights.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the moped to keep it in good
working condition.
   (D)   A person less than 18 years of age who operates a moped or rides a
moped as a passenger, on a street or highway shall wear protective headgear
that meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 218 (49 C.F.R. § 571.218,
motorcycle helmets), and must also wear protective glasses, goggles or a
transparent face shield, as set forth in I.C. 9-2111-13.
   (E)   An adult operating a moped shall carry the identification required
pursuant to §
73.22 of this chapter and I.C. 9-21-11-12 when operating the moped, and shall,
when detained by a police officer, produce said identification to the police
officer.
   (F)   A person operating a moped that has not yet been registered pursuant
to §
73.23 of this chapter shall carry either the moped registration paperwork or
the dated sales receipt during the initial 30 days of ownership, and shall,
when detained by a police officer, produce said paperwork and/or sales receipt
to the police officer.
(Prior Code, § 76.06) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-21-11-13 was repealed by P.L. 221-2014, Sec. 57
§ 73.26 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   (A)   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any moped for rent unless the
moped is equipped with the lamps and other equipment required in this
subchapter.
   (B)   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any moped for rent to anyone
under the age of 15 years of age.
   (C)   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any moped for rent to any
minor between the ages of 15 and 18 years of age unless:
      (1)   The minor has identification required pursuant to §
73.22(B) of this chapter and I.C. 9-21-11-12; and
      (2)   The minor’s parent or guardian signs the rental agreement.
(Prior Code, § 76.07) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 POCKET BIKES.
   (A)   The use of pocket bikes is prohibited on any and all roadways,
streets, alleys, sidewalks, rights-of- way, in city parks or city owned trails
and public ways within the city.
   (B)   In addition to the above prohibition on the use of pocket bikes as set
forth in division (A) above, any person who owns or operates a pocket bike
shall also be required to comply with the entirety of this subchapter as it
applies to mopeds. In the event any person commits a violation of the
provisions of this subchapter while operating a pocket bike, that person shall
be fined under §
73.99(C)(4) of this chapter for the specific violation, or shall be fined for
the state violation, in addition to the penalty for operation of the prohibited
pocket bike.
   (C)   A police officer having probable cause to believe a person has
violated this section may immediately impound the pocket bike as evidence. If
no action has been filed in court to enforce the violation of division (A)
above, or if there is proof that the fine has been paid, or unless proof is
provided that no violation has occurred, the Police Department shall allow the
owner to retrieve the pocket bike within 45 days of its seizure. The Police
Department shall also allow the owner to retrieve the moped bicycle if
accompanied by the legal guardian in the case of an underage operator.
(Prior Code, § 76.08) (Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
73.01 through
73.05 of this chapter may be fined not more than $1,500 per violation.
(Prior Code, § 73.06)
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of state law, per §§
73.20 through
73.27 of this chapter shall result in the issuance of a state citation.
      (2)   The parent or guardian of any person violating the underage
operation provision under §
73.22(B) of this chapter shall be fined $30, plus court costs, and the moped
shall be impounded in accordance with §
73.27(C) of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person violating the pocket bike prohibition of §
73.27(A) of this chapter shall be fined $100, plus court costs.
      (4)   Any person using a moped and found to be in violation of
transporting or carrying a child below the age of 15 years, in violation of §
73.24(G) of this chapter, shall be fined $100, plus court costs, and the moped
shall be impounded in accordance with §
73.27(C) of this chapter. Any person’s second, and each subsequent, violation
of §
73.24(G) of this chapter shall result in a fine of $125, plus court costs, and
the moped shall be impounded in accordance with §
73.27(C) of this chapter. The parent or guardian of a minor passenger below the
age of 15 years discovered to be in violation of §
73.24(G) of this chapter shall be fined $100, plus court costs. The parent or
guardian of a minor passenger below the age of 15 years discovered to have
violated §
73.24(G) of this chapter shall be fined $125, plus court costs, for the minor
passenger’s second and each subsequent offense.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the police officer of the city to issue
tickets for violations of §§
73.20 through
73.27 of this chapter. The tickets shall include the name of the owner or
operator if 18 years or older, or the parent or guardian of a minor who is the
owner, operator or passenger of a moped, his or her address, the section number
of §§
73.20 through
73.27 of this chapter which was violated or the violation number shown on the
reverse side of the ticket, and the date, time and place of the violation.
      (6)   All fines imposed by §§
73.20 through
73.27 of this chapter shall be paid to the Ordinance Violation Clerk.
      (7)   Any fine not paid within 30 days of the date shown on the ticket
shall be doubled.
      (8)   Failure to pay a fine within 45 days of the date shown on the
ticket shall result in an enforcement action being filed in court.
(Prior Code, § 76.99)
(Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. G-12-08, passed 3-27-2012)
CHAPTER 74: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION
Section
   
74.01   Purpose
   
74.02   Definition
   
74.03   Restriction of transportation of hazardous materials
   
74.04   Operation of motor vehicles transporting hazardous materials
   
74.05   Exceptions granted by Board of Public Works and Safety
   
74.06   State and federal laws
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare from the potential hazard of fire, explosion or exposure to toxic
substances that accompanies hazardous materials by regulating the
transportation of hazardous materials in and through the city.
(Prior Code, § 75.01) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 74.02 DEFINITION.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS are materials required to be placarded by 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F, “Placarding”.
(Prior Code, § 75.02) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 74.03 RESTRICTION OF TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   Where there is neither a point of origin nor destination within the
city, transportation of hazardous materials shall be restricted to the
following state and federal highways:
      (1)   Interstate 469; and
      (2)   Indiana Highway 930.
   (B)   Transportation of hazardous materials on city streets, other than
those listed in division (A) above, is prohibited unless such cargo has a point
of origin or destination within the city.
   (C)   Exceptions to the above restrictions will be made only upon
application to the Board of Public Works and Safety in accordance with §
74.05 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.03) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   The following operating requirements shall apply to motor vehicle
transportation within the city.
   (A)   Vehicles transporting hazardous materials shall obey all state and
local traffic and parking regulations.
   (B)   Vehicles transporting hazardous materials shall operate at all times
with their headlights illuminated.
   (C)   Transporters of hazardous materials shall not permit the discharge of
hazardous materials into or upon any street, highway, sanitary sewer, drainage
canal or ditch or flood control channel, or upon the ground, including private
property, except when such discharge is expressly permitted by the property
owner and is otherwise legal.
   (D)   Transporters of hazardous materials shall not create a hazard to the
public by the location or condition of their vehicles which contain hazardous
materials.
(Prior Code, § 75.04) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 EXCEPTIONS GRANTED BY BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Transporters, shippers and receivers of hazardous materials may apply
to the Board of Public Works and Safety for an exception to the requirements of
§
74.03 of this chapter. An exception will be granted only where the following
criteria are met:
      (1)   Compelling need is shown; the applicant must show that
transportation of the hazardous materials cannot be made by using the
designated highway or alternative routes outside the city; and
      (2)   Transportation of the hazardous materials off of the designated
route is in the public interest.
   (B)   A request for an exception under this section shall be filed with the
Board of Public Works and Safety at the City Hall.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall grant or deny requests for
exception based on the criteria designated in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 75.05) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 74.06 STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   This chapter is in addition to any other existing federal or state laws
regulating the transport of hazardous materials.
(Prior Code, § 75.06) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, carrier or vehicle who violates the terms of this chapter shall
be issued a citation to appear in a court of competent jurisdiction in this
county, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 75.07) (Ord. G-00-13, passed 12-12-2000)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   STREET, SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
      
96.   PUBLIC PLACES; GATHERINGS, SHOWS AND THE LIKE
      
97.   MODEL FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Authority to contract with Fort Wayne Animal Control Commission
   
90.03   Animal control regulations
   
90.04   Stray animals
   
90.05   Biting animals
   
90.06   Impoundment; redemption
   
90.07   Inspections
   
90.08   Dangerous animal; declarations
   
90.09   Habitual animal offenders
   
90.10   Veterinary hospital clinics
Wild Animals
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   Administration and enforcement
   
90.22   Keeping, harboring and sale of certain animals
   
90.23   Poisoning animals
Dog and Cat Control
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Prohibitions and regulations
   
90.37   Enforcement
   
90.38   Impoundment and redemption
   
90.39   Applicability of other laws
   
90.40   Rabies emergencies
   
90.41   Dog bite injuries
   
90.42   Numbers limit; kennel/cattery and minor breeder permits
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
   Parks and Playgrounds, see
Ch. 95
   Public Places; Gatherings, Shows and the Like, see
Ch. 96
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. An animal that has been surgically sterilized to prevent
procreation.
   ANIMAL. A living vertebrate, domestic or wild, except a human being.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An officer of the Fort Wayne Department of Animal
Care and Control or any officer of the City of New Haven Police Department who
is in communication with the Fort Wayne Department of Animal Care and Control.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER. The municipal facility established for the purpose
of animal control care and disposition, as set forth in this chapter, operated
by and under the direct supervision of the Fort Wayne Animal Control Commission
and the Executive Director of the shelter.
   ANIMAL HOARDER. A person who:
      (1)   (a)   Possesses any combination of eight or more cats and/or dogs;
         (b)   Possess any combination of 15 or more cats, dogs, or other
animals including but not limited to: hamsters, chinchillas, hedgehogs,
gerbils, guinea pigs, sugar gliders, rabbits, ferrets, mice, rats, lizards,
snakes, turtles, birds, excluding fish; and
      (2)   Fails or is unable to provide adequate food, potable water, and/or
sanitary environment as provided in §§
90.03(A), (C), and (G); and/or
      (3)   Keeps animals in an overcrowded environment; and/or
      (4)   Exhibits material disregard for the conditions under which the
animals are living and the harmful impact they have on the health and well-
being of the animals.
   ANIMAL WELFARE ORGANIZATION. A non-profit entity duly organized and existing
under applicable state law whose mission is to prevent cruelty to animals,
rehome animals, or otherwise promote the cause of animal welfare through
legitimate activities approved by the Department.
   APPROPRIATE SHELTER. For animals, excluding domestic farm animals, a
structure designed specifically to shelter an animal that allows an animal to
maintain its body heat. The structure must have a roof, solid floor, three
leak- proof sides with no openings to the elements, and a fourth side that
provides access in and out of the structure but otherwise protects the animal
from the elements. The structure shall be located in an area allowing the
animal to remain dry with access outside the structure to dry, mud-free ground.
   CATTERY. A person who:
      (1)   Possesses more than one unaltered cat or more than seven cats,
whether or not altered; or
      (2)   Engages in the business of boarding cats for compensation.
   DANGEROUS WILD or DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMAL. A wild or exotic animal not
indigenous to the State of Indiana, not commonly found as a domestic animal
that would create potential risk to public safety including but not limited to:
bears, wolves, lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars, alligators,
crocodiles, caimans, snakes and reptiles that are venomous, apes, baboons,
macaques, or any hybrid of like animal.
   DEPARTMENT. The Fort Wayne Department of Animal Care and Control for such
time as the Board of Public Works and Safety is engaged in a contract with the
Fort Wayne Animal Control Commission, and the City of New Haven Police
Department if no such contract is currently in effect.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. An animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii; except fish, and
fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade, and birds
protected under federal laws and regulations.
   HABITUAL ANIMAL OFFENDER. A person who within any three-year period has:
been convicted and/or admitted to three or more violations of this chapter in a
court of competent jurisdiction. The controlling date for each violation shall
be the date of each violation and not the date of the subsequent plea or
conviction.
   HARBORER. A person who knowingly confines or provides food, water, care, or
shelter of any domestic animal.
   KENNEL. A person who:
      (1)   Possesses more than one unaltered dog or more than five dogs,
whether or not altered; or
      (2)   Engages in the business of boarding or training dogs for
compensation.
   OWNER. A person, who owns, has ownership or custody rights for an animal, or
who has harbored such animal or knowingly permits an animal to remain on or
about any premises occupied by that person.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation or commercial establishment.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Interferes with passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Strays upon school grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large or unrestrained;
      (5)   Damages private or public property; or
      (6)   Barks, whines or howls or makes other sounds common to its species
in excess.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-
30-2021)
§ 90.02 AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH FORT WAYNE ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to enter into
contracts with the Fort Wayne Animal Control Commission for the collection,
transportation, sheltering, and disposal by the Fort Wayne animal control
shelter of sick, deceased, injured, illegally at large, lost, strayed, or
abandoned animals, and to investigate and prosecute any matter related to such
animals.
   (B)   The power given to the Board of Public Works to enter into said
contract shall specifically include the ability to agree to apply the
provisions of any applicable rules, regulations, or ordinances in place by the
City of Fort Wayne and Fort Wayne Animal Care and Control, and to the extent
they conflict with New Haven, to agree that the provisions of the Fort Wayne
ordinance and/or rules and regulations shall apply. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the ordinances in place by the City of Fort Wayne and Fort Wayne
Animal Care and Control will control only with respect to the collection,
transportation, sheltering, and disposal by Fort Wayne Animal Care and Control
of sick, deceased, injured, illegally at large, lost, strayed, or abandoned
animals, and to investigation and prosecution related to such services. This
code shall control any land use issue related to the care and keeping of any
animal related to any land use issue with respect to animals, including zoning,
and nothing shall prohibit the city from enforcing its own ordinances
independent of Fort Wayne and Animal Care and Control.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-18-18, passed
11-14-2018)
§ 90.03 ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Appropriate shelter. No person shall confine or allow his or her
animal to remain outside without access to appropriate shelter from the
elements.
   (B)   Hitching or tying. No animal shall be hitched, tied or fastened by any
rope, chain or cord that is directly attached to the animal’s neck or choke
collar. Animals that must be tied, hitched or fastened to restrain them must
wear a properly fitted collar or harness. The tying device shall be attached to
the animal’s collar or harness.
   (C)   Food and water. All animals shall have fresh, potable drinking water
and be provided with food that is nutritional for that species.
   (D)   Vaccination; tags. Cats and dogs over the age of six months must be
vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian against rabies, and must wear a tag at
all times attached to a properly fitted collar or harness.
   (E)   Medical care, generally. All animals shall be provided with necessary
medical care in addition to the required rabies vaccination.
   (F)   Removal of excrement. Persons responsible for an animal shall
immediately remove the animal’s excrement from public lands or from the
property of another, except a blind person working with a guide dog.
   (G)   Sanitation. All animals, where kept inside or in a pen, tied,
fastened, hitched, leashed or enclosed in a fence shall be kept in a sanitary
manner. The person responsible for the animal(s) shall regularly, and as often
as necessary to, prevent odor or health and sanitation problems, maintain all
animal areas or areas of animal contact.
   (H)   Wild or exotic animals. No wild or exotic animal shall be kept within
the city, except as set forth in §§
90.20 through
90.23 of this chapter.
   (I)   Restraint. All animals shall be properly restrained as required by
this chapter.
   (J)   Cruelty. No person owning, harboring or responsible for an animal
shall beat, cruelly treat, neglect, torment, overload, overwork or otherwise
abuse any animal.
   (K)   Fighting. No person shall permit or conduct any dogfight, cockfight or
other combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (L)   Poisonous bait. No person shall set any type of poisonous substance or
bait within the city limits, except as set forth in §
90.23 of this chapter.
   (M)   Motor vehicle-caused injuries. Any person operating a motor vehicle
who causes injury or death to an animal shall stop at once, assess the extent
of injury and immediately notify the owner or animal control shelter of the
location of the animal.
   (N)   Animals in vehicles. No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle
when the conditions in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the
animal.
   (O)   Training methods. No animal may be inducted or encouraged to perform
through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a
manner which will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering.
   (P)   Animals in heat. Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in
a secure building or enclosure so as to prevent conception, except during
instances of planned breeding.
   (Q)   Abandonment. No person shall abandon or cause to be abandoned any
animal anywhere within the city limits in any public or private place, way or
building.
   (R)   Public nuisance animals. No person shall own or harbor a public
nuisance as defined in this chapter.
   (S)   Vicious animals. No person shall own or harbor a vicious animal,
except as set forth in §§
90.20 through
90.23 of this chapter.
   (T)   Animals as prizes or inducements. No person shall sell, offer for
sale, trade, barter or give away any live animal, fish, bird or reptile, other
than goldfish, as a prize for, or as an inducement to enter a place of
amusement; or offer such vertebrate as an incentive to enter any business
establishment or enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was made
for the purpose of attracting trade, for business other than establishments
selling animals as their primary business.
   (U)   Puppies and kittens for sale or the like. No puppy or kitten which is
under the age of eight weeks may be offered for sale, trade or for other
compensation or for a free giveaway (except a puppy or kitten or litter or
litters may be taken to the animal control shelter).
   (V)   Dyed animals. No person shall sell, offer for sale, trade or barter
any animal whose appearance has been chemically altered by dyes or staining.
   (W)   Animals as novelties. No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or
give away baby rabbits, chicks, goslings, ducklings or other fowl as pets or
novelties. This division (W) shall not be construed to prohibit the sale or
display of baby rabbits, chicks, goslings, ducklings or other fowl in proper
brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling
them to be raised for commercial purposes.
   (X)   Distance of fowl coops from dwellings. No person shall keep or
maintain any coop in which chickens, ducks, turkeys or other domestic fowl and
poultry are kept within a distance of less than 50 feet from any dwelling.
   (Y)   Destruction of animals. No person other than a duly authorized agent
of the animal control shelter may destroy any domestic animal within the city
limits; provided, however, this provision shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A licensed veterinarian;
      (2)   Those persons acting in immediate self-protection;
      (3)   City police officers or firefighters acting to prevent undue
suffering; or
      (4)   A person while engaged in farming.
   (Z)   Noisy dogs. No person shall allow noisy dogs or cats, as more
specifically set forth in §§
90.35 through
90.40 of this chapter.
   (AA)   Interfering with enforcement. No person shall interfere with an
Animal Control Officer in the pursuit of his or her duties as an officer.
   (BB)   Impoundment. Violations of the provisions of this section may result
in impoundment of the animal(s) in accordance with this chapter.
   (CC)   Grooming care. The owner or harborer of an animal(s) deemed by the
Department to require grooming shall complete such grooming in the time period
prescribed by the Department and shall furnish proof of such grooming to the
Department within such required time period.
   (DD)   Animal hoarding. No person shall engage in animal hoarding as defined
in this chapter.
   (EE)   Prohibited tethering. No person shall:
      (1)   Tether an animal(s) between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
or
      (2)   Tether an unsterilized animal(s) for any period of time; or
      (3)   Tether or confine an animal(s) in or about an unoccupied structure
or property for any purpose unless the animal(s) is continuously monitored by
an adult who is physically on site throughout the period of tethering or
confinement; or
      (4)   Tether an animal(s) under six months of age; or
      (5)   Tether more than three animals simultaneously at the same location;
or
      (6)   Tether more than one animal in a manner that permits physical
contact between the tethered animals; or
      (7)   Tether animals within three feet of another person’s property,
public thoroughfare, or right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-94-8, passed 10-
24-1994; Ord. G-24-07, passed 3-26-2013; Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-30-2021)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 STRAY ANIMALS.
   A person finding a stray animal(s) shall:
   (A)   (1)   Notify the Department immediately and no later than 24 hours
after finding an animal(s) to have the animal(s) picked up or shall drop the
animal(s) off to the Department.
      (2)   If an animal control officer is not on duty the finder will need to
hold onto the animal(s) until the next animal control officer comes on duty.
   (B)   At the discretion of the Department, the animal(s) may be held by the
finder who shall complete a found report with the Department which provides the
finder an opportunity to return the animal(s) to its owner.
      (1)   The finder must hold onto the animal(s) until the owner is found or
until 30 days has passed from when the found report was filed with the
Department.
      (2)   If the finder is unable to continue to hold on to the animal(s),
the animal(s) must be surrendered to the Department. The animal(s) may not be
rehomed to anyone else to hold.
      (3)   The finder must present the animal(s) for microchip scanning at the
Department within seven days from finding the animal(s).
      (4)   The finder shall make the animal(s) available to any potential
owners and may use the Department as a meeting location.
      (5)   With the exception of partnering animal welfare organizations, the
finder will be considered the found animal’s owner for the purposes of this
chapter only after a found report has been filed with the department and the
animal(s) is in the finder’s custody for a continuous 30 days.
   (C)   Upon request of the Department, a found animal(s) will be surrendered
to the Department and held for three business days prior to its disposition.
   (D)   A person finding an animal(s) shall comply with all rules and
regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment of animal
(s) while such animal(s) is in the person’s custody pending return to its
owner.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-
30-2021)
§ 90.05 BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or harborer of an animal(s) which has bitten a person
or another animal shall immediately report the incident to the animal control
officer and make the animal immediately available for quarantine. Upon receipt
of the bite report the animal control officer will quarantine the animal(s).
The location of confinement for all quarantines shall be determined by the
Department. During the quarantine period, the animal(s) shall be securely
confined and segregated from contact with all other animals and/or persons
other than the primary caretaker. If the animal is a dog, cat, or ferret and
has bitten a person or a domestic animal, it shall be quarantined for ten days.
All other animal exposures and quarantines will follow the most current edition
of the Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control distributed by the
National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians.
      (2)   The location of quarantine cannot be changed without prior
authorization from the Department.
   (B)   A physician who has knowledge of, examined, or treated a victim of an
animal bite shall immediately report the incident to the animal control
officer. Sufficient information must be provided so that the animal control
officer is able to make contact with the victim and/or owner so that required
quarantines can be enacted.
   (C)   A veterinarian who has knowledge of, examined, or treated a victim of
a bite or the biting animal shall immediately report the incident to the animal
control officer. This also includes reporting all bites that occur within the
veterinarian office to include but not limited to: the public, staff members,
volunteers, and contracted workers. Sufficient information must be provided so
that the animal control officer is able to make contact with the victim, victim
animal owner, and/or biting animal owner so that required quarantines can be
enacted.
   (D)   During the quarantine period, the owner or harborer shall provide a
current rabies vaccination certificate for the dog, cat, or ferret being
quarantined. If proof of vaccination is not provided, the animal(s) will be
vaccinated by a veterinarian upon release from quarantine, at the expense of
the owner or harborer or shall be subject to enforcement action to mandate
rabies vaccination.
      (1)   An animal(s) quarantined at the Department shall be implanted with
a microchip prior to release from quarantine. Such microchip shall be
documented with the Department for the life of the animal(s). The cost of the
quarantine, preventative vaccinations, minor medical treatments, and the
implant and national registry of the microchip shall be at the expense of the
owner or harborer.
      (2)   If the animal(s) is quarantined at a location other than the
Department, as determined by the Department, a microchip shall be implanted in
the animal(s) within 30 days following the animal’s release from quarantine.
Such microchip shall be documented with the Department. The cost of the
quarantine and the implant and national registry of the microchip shall be at
the expense of the owner or harborer.
      (3)   The microchip, implanted in connection with each quarantine, shall
bear a number which will provide entry into a database containing the animal’s
bite history. The microchip shall be contained in a sterilized implanting
device and shall be individually packaged.
      (4)   The microchip and its corresponding registration history shall be
considered prima facie evidence in any future dangerous animal determination
under §
90.08.
      (5)   Enforcement action will be taken to mandate microchip implant for
owners or harborers who refuse to microchip the animal at redemption.
   (E)   No person other than the animal control officer or a veterinarian
shall kill or cause to be killed any animal suspected of being rabid except in
cases of immediate selfprotection, in which event, the person killing the
suspected rabid animal will retain the body and immediately notify the
Department.
   (F)   A violation of the quarantine requirements of this section may subject
the violating party to penalties under §
90.99 hereof.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-
30-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Grounds for and conditions of impoundment.
      (1)   Animals found in cruel, abusive or neglectful situations as defined
in this chapter may be promptly impounded if no immediate contact with a
responsible person can be made; provided, however, that, the Animal Control
Officer shall leave written notice stating the location of the animal and the
reason for impoundment.
      (2)   Animals so removed will be impounded and held at the animal control
shelter or designated facility until such time violator is in compliance with
this chapter; provided, however, that, in no event shall this period exceed ten
days, at which time the animal shall become the property of the animal control
shelter, or for the Animal Control Officer to have ample time to prepare a
court case if prosecution is warranted.
      (3)   Animals waiting disposition by the courts shall remain in the
custody of the animal control shelter until such disposition is made or shall
be placed in a foster home until legal arrangements have been completed.
      (4)   Animals so removed may be transported to a licensed veterinarian
for examination and/or treatment.
         (a)   If, in the opinion of said veterinarian, the animal must be
destroyed, euthanasia will be performed immediately.
         (b)   Costs of treatment, euthanasia and/ or care shall be the
responsibility of the owner/agent.
   (B)   Redemption.
      (1)   A person may reclaim an animal in the custody of the animal control
shelter upon providing the following, as approved by the Animal Control
Commission:
         (a)   Proof of ownership; and
         (b)   Payment of redemption fee and any other service/medical fees.
      (2)   Stray or at-large animals will be held three working days at the
animal control shelter.
      (3)   Unclaimed animals become the property of the animal control shelter
and may be placed for adoption or humanely euthanized.
   (C)   (1)   A previously impounded stray animal or animal that is not
restrained and is now being redeemed by the owner or harborer for a second or
subsequent redemption shall be surgically sterilized by a state-licensed
veterinarian at the owner or harborer’s expense. An appointment to perform the
procedure shall be made at the time of the redemption. Enforcement action
requiring surgical sterilization will be issued by the Department at the time
of redemption if the appointment is not made.
      (2)   In cases mandating spay or neuter of an animal(s), the animal(s)
may, at the Department’s discretion, be transported by the Department directly
to the veterinarian selected by the owner or harborer for completion of the
surgery and pickup of the animal(s) by the owner or harborer. All fees due the
veterinarian are the responsibility of the owner or harborer.
   (D)   Animal(s) awaiting disposition by the courts shall remain in the
custody of the Department, until such disposition is made, or the animal(s) is
placed in a foster home until arrangements for disposition have been completed.
   (E)   Pursuant to impoundment of an animal(s) under division (A) hereof, the
Department may file a petition with the court requesting the owner or harborer
of the animal(s) post a bond to cover the costs of care of the animal(s) while
in the custody of the Department. Such petition shall be accompanied by an
affidavit of the animal control officer that sets forth an estimate of the
reasonable expenses the Department expects to incur providing for such care.
Reasonable expenses include but are not limited to the estimated cost of
veterinary care, food and board for the animal(s). The owner or harborer of the
animal(s) shall be provided written notice of the petition by personal service
or prepaid United States certified mail, return receipt requested. Any such
mail shall be sent to the last known residence, of the owner or harborer, if
known, otherwise to the address from which the animal(s) was seized. Refusal to
accept certified mail or failure to receive mail due to other delays
experienced by the owner or harborer will not negate the effectiveness of such
notice.
      (1)   The court in which the petition is filed shall conduct a hearing on
the petition, at which the Department shall have the burden of proving that
there is probable cause for the court to find that the animal(s) were
confiscated by the animal control officer for a reason listed under division
(A) hereof. If the court finds that probable cause exists, the court shall
order the owner or harborer of the animal(s) to post a bond to cover the cost
of the care for the animal(s) for a minimum of 30 days.
      (2)   Bond must be posted within a maximum of three business days
following the bond hearing order. If bond has not been posted within such
period, the animal(s) shall forthwith become the property of the Department.
      (3)   Bond must be posted at the Department in cash or certified funds
only. The bond shall be deposited into the City of Fort Wayne’s general trust
fund and, in a subaccount specific for each case. The Department may draw on
such subaccount to pay for the actual expenses incurred in the care and
boarding of the animal(s).
      (4)   If, at the end of 30 days, the matter for holding the animal(s) has
not been adjudicated, another bond shall be posted. The renewal bond shall be
paid no later than the close of business on the thirtieth day. If the thirtieth
day falls on a weekend or holiday, the bond shall be posted by the close of
business on the last regular business day prior to the weekend or holiday. The
bond shall be renewed every 30 days thereafter until the matter is adjudicated
and an order issued by the court. Failure to repost bond at the end of any 30
day period will be considered voluntary relinquishment of the animal(s) by the
owner or harborer.
      (5)   In the event of a conviction of the defendant, the court, in its
discretion, may order any remaining bond money forfeited and/or the animal(s)
relinquished to the Department.
      (6)   In the event of a dismissal of the case or a finding in favor of
the defendant, the court shall direct the delivery of the animal(s) and any
bond money, less reasonable medical, housing and administrative costs, to the
defendant.
         (a)   The bond is intended to cover daily boarding, emergency medical
care, immunizations, and routine medical care. Animal(s) displaying evidence of
illness or injury at the time of impound will be treated immediately at the
expense of the owner or harborer. Animal(s) that are not current on
inoculations for ailments common to their species will be inoculated at the
expense of the owner or harborer. An animal(s) displaying evidence of illness
or injury which, in the opinion of a state-licensed veterinarian, would cause
undue suffering to that animal(s) or pose a substantial health risk to other
animals in the Department facilities shall be immediately and humanely
euthanized.
         (b)   This section applies to all animals housed at the Department, or
at a designated facility selected by the Department, irrespective of the agency
that seized the animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-
30-2021)
§ 90.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law, the
Animal Control Officer, Health Officer or police officer is authorized at all
reasonable times to inspect the same for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter or any state law; provided that:
      (1)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining the reasons therefor;
and
      (2)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry explaining the reasons therefor.
   (B)   In the event the Animal Control Officer, Health Officer or police
officer has reasonable cause to believe that the keeping or maintaining of an
animal is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to require immediate inspection
to safeguard the animal or the public health or safety, the officer shall first
present proper credentials and request entry explaining the reasons therefor.
If entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other person
having charge or control of the property cannot be found after reasonable
search, the officer shall have recourse to secure lawful entry and inspection
of the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 90.08 DANGEROUS ANIMAL; DECLARATIONS.
   Dangerous animals prohibited.
   (A)   Ownership/possession prohibited. No person shall own, keep, or harbor
a dangerous animal(s); provided this section shall not apply to animal(s) under
the control of law enforcement or military agencies. An animal(s) may be
declared dangerous if it is determined to have exhibited dangerous behavior or
if other information has been obtained by the Department which identifies such
animal(s) as dangerous, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The animal has bitten or attacked one or more persons or animals a
minimum of three times; or
      (2)   The animal has bitten or attacked a person or an animal once
causing wounds or injuries creating a potential danger to the health or life of
the victim; or
      (3)   The animal could not be controlled or restrained at the time of a
bite or attack upon an animal or a person; or
      (4)   The animal has been purchased, bred, sold, trained, or harbored for
the purpose of animal fighting; or
      (5)   The animal has been microchipped by a licensed veterinarian or the
Department for the purpose of documenting the occurrence of a prior bite or
attack.
   (B)   Impoundment; costs. The animal(s) shall be impounded by the Department
pending an investigation and adjudication of the animal(s) as dangerous
pursuant to this section. The owner or harborer of an impounded and/or
euthanized animal(s) under this section shall be responsible for the payment of
any expenses related to the impoundment incurred by the Department.
(Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-30-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 HABITUAL ANIMAL OFFENDERS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to be a habitual animal
offender. A court may limit, restrict, or prohibit animal ownership for a
person deemed to be a habitual animal offender for a minimum of five years up
to and including a lifetime prohibition from animal ownership, after
considering the recommendation of the Department.
   (B)   (1)   Once deemed a habitual animal offender the Department will
determine if a transfer of ownership will be permitted based on the case
surrounding the animal(s), the risk to public safety and the suitability of the
potential new owner. If a transfer is approved, the maximum time to transfer
ownership shall be no more than three business days. All transfers must occur
at the Department to ensure compliance and a recorded transfer of ownership.
      (2)   If a transfer is not approved by the Department, the person fails
to bring the animal(s) in for transfer or failure to transfer within the
guidelines provided in division (B)(1) above, shall result in the animal(s)
being impounded and the animal(s) shall become the property of Fort Wayne
Animal Care and Control.
   (C)   A habitual animal offender shall be prohibited from claiming an animal
(s) once the courts have deemed the person to be a habitual animal offender.
(Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-30-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 VETERINARY HOSPITALS/CLINICS.
   (A)   Animals in the care of a veterinary hospital or clinic shall be housed
and boarded in a humane and sanitary manner.
   (B)   Veterinarians shall create and maintain in accordance with
professional standards records of each animal(s) accepted for diagnosis,
treatment, or routine health care.
   (C)   Veterinarians who provide boarding, grooming or other animal related
services in addition to the treatment and/or medical care of animals shall
obtain a permit as required under this chapter for providing such services.
   (D)   Veterinarians shall report to the Department any knowledge of
suspected injuries, illness and/or other medical conditions related to cruelty,
neglect and/or abuse. This is in addition to the required reporting for animal
bites to persons and/or animals in §
90.05(C).
   (E)   Veterinarians shall report to the Department any knowledge of
suspected or known owner discrepancies. All questions regarding ownership are
to be reviewed with the Department.
(Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-30-2021)
WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   A WILD ANIMAL is any animal of a species which usually lives in the wild or
usually is not domesticated.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. G-94-8, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 90.21 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have full responsibility
for the enforcement of this subchapter and shall have powers not limited to,
but including, the following:
      (1)   Appointment, removal and regulation of a Humane Officer for the
city;
      (2)   Contracting for animal control on any terms as the Board deems
proper;
      (3)   Recommending to the local governing authority rules and regulations
concerning the care and control of both animals and facilities covered by this
chapter;
      (4)   Review of the proposed budget and contracts for all animal control
programs;
      (5)   Upon written complaint, the Board shall conduct a public hearing to
determine if an animal shelter or commercial establishment is in violation of
this chapter; and
      (6)   Recommending to the local governing authority necessary changes in
the law regarding the control of animals.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Public
Health Officer of the city, upon direction of the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. G-85-17, passed 8-13-1985)
§ 90.22 KEEPING, HARBORING AND SALE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, harbor, keep or permit to be kept on his or her
premises any wild animal, any vicious animal, or any dangerous wild or exotic
animal for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a
fee. This section shall not be construed to apply to veterinary hospitals,
commercial animal establishments, performing animal exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet.
   (C)   The licensing authority shall have the power to release or order the
release of any infant wild animal kept temporarily which is deemed capable of
survival.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. G-85-17, passed 8-13-1985; Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-
30-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 POISONING ANIMALS.
   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal; provided
that, it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his or her own
property, common rat or mouse poison mixed only with vegetable substances or
unmixed.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. G-85-17, passed 8-13-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOG AND CAT CONTROL
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER. The municipality owned facility established for the
purpose of animal control, care and disposition operated by and under the
direct supervision of the Fort Wayne Animal Control Commission and the
Executive Director of the Shelter.
   OWNER. The person having the right of property or custody of a dog or cat,
or who keeps or harbors a dog or cat, or knowingly permits a dog or cat to
remain on or about any premises occupied by that person.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation or other commercial establishment.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A dog or cat which:
      (1)   Interferes with passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Is repeatedly at large or unrestrained;
      (4)   Damages private or public property; or
      (5)   Barks, whines or makes other sounds common to its species in
excess.
(Prior Code, § 90.30) (Ord. G-86-3, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.36 PROHIBITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Stray dog or cat. No person shall allow any dog or cat to stray beyond
its premises, unless the dog or cat is under the reasonable control of some
person. Animals must bear suitable markings, such as a microchip, a collar or
other identification, that clearly and accurately identify the legal name of
the animal owner.
   (B)   Abandoned dog or cat. No person shall abandon or cause to be abandoned
a dog or cat anywhere within the city in any public or private place, way or
building.
   (C)   Public nuisance. No person shall harbor or own a public nuisance as
defined in §
90.35 of this chapter.
   (D)   Violations. Violations of the provisions of this subchapter may result
in the impoundment of the dog(s) or cat(s) in accordance with §
90.38 of this chapter.
   (E)   Penalties. Violations of divisions (A) through (C) above shall result
in a fine in accordance with §
90.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.31) (Ord. G-86-3, passed 2-11-1986; Ord. G-02-1, passed 4-9-
2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duty to enforce. It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police
Department to enforce the regulations established by this subchapter.
   (B)   Procedure. Proceedings to enforce this subchapter shall be governed by
I.C. 34-28-5 as amended.
(Prior Code, § 90.32) (Ord. G-86-3, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.38 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Impoundment. Cats or dogs impounded pursuant to this subchapter shall
be impounded and held at the animal control shelter in accordance with the
rules and regulations governing the operation of the shelter.
   (B)   Redemption. A person may reclaim a cat or dog in the custody of the
animal control shelter upon providing proof of ownership and payment of all
redemption fees and any other service/medical fees charged by the animal
control shelter in accordance with the rules and regulations of the animal
control shelter.
   (C)   Stray or abandoned dogs or cats. Stray or abandoned dogs or cats will
be held at the animal control shelter for the period of time prescribed by the
shelter’s rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 90.33) (Ord. G-86-3, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.39 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of this subchapter supplement all laws of the state and
county ordinances covering the same subject matter.
(Prior Code, § 90.34) (Ord. G-86-3, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.40 RABIES EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event the Board of Public Health of the city, the county or the
state shall declare in writing that an emergency exists by reason of a rabies
epidemic among dogs and other domestic animals requiring a quarantine for
rabies, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow the animal to
roam at-large on the streets, or places other than his or her own premises
within the city, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   No dog shall be allowed beyond the premises of its owner unless the
dog is:
      (1)   On a leash, controlled by some person physically able to prevent
the animal from biting;
      (2)   Muzzled in such a manner as to make biting impossible; and
      (3)   Displaying a license tag, along with a tag showing that an anti-
rabies vaccine had been administered to that particular animal within the last
12 months.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Humane Officer of the city and his or her
assistants to enforce the provisions of this section and to impound at the
animal control shelter all dogs at-large not conforming to this section.
(Prior Code, § 90.35) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 DOG BITE INJURIES.
   (A)   Dog bite injury classifications. Classification of dog bite injuries
shall be based upon the specific injuries caused by the dog while not
restrained. Such classifications of levels one, two, three, and four dog bite
injuries are not progressive and may be initially classified at any level. Upon
a finding by the court that one of the following levels of dog bite injuries
has occurred, the court shall issue an order which shall impose the following
requirements on the owner or harborer of the biting dog.
      (1)   A level one dog bite injury occurs if a dog is not restrained and
inflicts a bite on another domestic animal or person which causes an oral
scratch or a maximum of four punctures. Upon a finding by the court a level one
dog bite injury has occurred, the court may impose a penalty under §
90.99 and shall order that the dog shall be spayed or neutered.
      (2)   A level two dog bite injury occurs if the dog is not restrained and
inflicts a bite to another domestic animal or person which causes more than
four punctures. Upon a finding by the court a level two dog bite injury has
occurred the court may impose a penalty under §
90.99 and shall order that:
         (a)   The dog shall be spayed or neutered;
         (b)   No tethering of the dog if unattended by an adult or if
prohibited in §
90.03(EE);
         (c)   Confinement of the dog as directed in writing by the Department.
      (3)   A level three dog bite injury occurs if a dog is not restrained and
causes more than four punctures to another domestic animal or person or any act
including broken bones, crushing, tearing from shaking, or internal injuries,
resulting in injury or death of such domestic animal or person, a level three
dog bite injury may initiate a dangerous animal investigation under §
90.08. Upon finding by the court that a level three dog bite injury has
occurred the court may impose a penalty under §
90.99 and shall order that:
         (a)   The dog shall be spayed or neutered;
         (b)   No tethering of the dog if unattended by an adult or as
prohibited in §
90.03(EE);
         (c)   Use of humane muzzle and leash on the dog when off property;
         (d)   Confinement of the dog as directed in writing by the Department.
      (4)   A level four dog bite injury occurs when there is a repeat
occurrence of any dog bite injury level one, level two, or level three by a
biting dog. A level four dog bite injury may also initiate a dangerous animal
investigation under §
90.08.
   (B)   The owner or harborer of a dog which has caused any level of dog bite
injury under this section shall report to the Department in writing any request
to change the quarantine location of such dog prior to its relocation.
   (C)   Compliance. The owner or harborer of a dog(s) that has caused any
level of dog bite injury under this section shall comply with each prospective
classification provision of this section and may result in the imposition of a
fine on the owner or harborer. Additionally, the Department shall have the
authority to impound such dog pending a final disposition of the applicable
court proceeding.
   (D)   Nonsequential order. Nothing contained in this division (A) shall
prevent the Department from initially proceeding with the charge of dangerous
animal under §
90.08.
   (E)   Declassification of dog bite injury. The owner or harborer may contact
the Department to initiate the declassification of a dog bite injury
concurrently with the payment of a declassification fee. The following
conditions shall be met in order to declassify a dog bite injury:
      (1)   Dog(s) which have inflicted a level one dog bite injury shall not
subsequently inflict a dog bite injury for a period of one year. Dogs which
have inflicted a level two dog bite injury shall not subsequently inflict a dog
bite injury for a period of three years.
      (2)   The owner or harborer shall provide the Department with written
certification of the completion of obedience training acceptable to the
Department for the dog whose dog bite injury is sought to be declassified.
      (3)   Satisfaction of the conditions in divisions (E)(1) and (2) may in
the discretion of the Department result in the declassification of the dog bite
injury.
      (4)   Dogs which have inflicted level three or four dog bite injuries
shall not be eligible for dog bite injury declassification.
(Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-30-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 NUMBERS LIMIT; KENNEL/CATTERY AND MINOR BREEDER PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall own or harbor more than five dogs or seven cats or a
combination of seven dogs and cats unless approved by the Department.
   (B)   A person owning or harboring more than one unaltered dog or cat over
the age of five months shall be required to obtain a kennel/cattery permit.
      (1)   A person who complies with the numbers limits but who owns or
harbors more than one intact dog or cat shall apply for a residential kennel/
cattery permit which will be issued only after inspection and approval by the
Department. Permits are valid for one year from date of issuance and shall be
renewed by the permit holder annually. Residential kennel/cattery permits may
be denied or revoked by the Department for cause.
      (2)   Residential kennel/cattery permit application eligibility requires:
         (a)   A maximum of three unaltered dogs or cats;
         (b)   Animal enclosures shall be maintained and located within the
interior of the owner or harborer’s principal residence on the owner or
harborer’s property;
         (c)   The animal(s) shall have adequate exercise space for the breed
and number of dogs and/or cats maintained;
         (d)   The owner or harborer does not have a history of previous
ordinance violations; and
         (e)   The owner or harborer can provide documentation for current
vaccinations for all dogs and cats at the inspection for the kennel/cattery
permit, if all other areas have passed inspection.
            1.   The owner or harborer will have until the final notice date to
come into compliance with rabies vaccination and kennel/cattery permit
requirements and may not be denied for any of the above unless one of the
criteria in division (B)(2)(a) to (d) of this section is not met.
            2.   The initiating call and any issuance of citations at the
initial call are not an immediate denial for the kennel/cattery permit.
      (3)   Cause for revocation of an issued kennel/cattery permit shall
include but is not limited to: animal fighting, human or animal bites, animals
not restrained, substantiated neighborhood nuisance complaints, failure to
obtain and renew permits, breeding without a breeder’s permit, failing to
maintain current rabies vaccination status, and exceeding the numbers limit for
animal ownership and/or harboring as identified in division (A) hereof.
      (4)   Kennel/cattery permits shall be renewed annually.
      (5)   Costs.
         (a)   Two unaltered dog or cats: $400.
         (b)   Three unaltered dog or cats: $500.
   (C)   A minor breeder’s permit shall be obtained by:
      (1)   A person who intentionally or inadvertently participates in or
permits the breeding of a cat or dog or makes a cat or dog available for
breeding purposes; or
      (2)   A person who offers for sale, sells, exchanges, transfers, receives
compensation for or gives away any litter of dogs or cats; with the exception
of a litter of puppies or kittens relinquished to the Department; or
      (3)   An owner or harborer of a dog or cat which has delivered a litter
or who has caused the delivery of a litter, chooses not to relinquish the
animal to the Department and also elects not to have the animal surgically
sterilized, shall cause such animal to be implanted with a microchip and shall
register such animal within 30 days of following the date of notice requiring
such procedure from the Department; or
      (4)   An owner or harborer who fails to relinquish to the Department any
dog or cat whose litter has been relinquished to the Department and does not
surgically sterilize the animal shall obtain a microchip and register the
animal within 30 days following the date of relinquishment; or
      (5)   An owner or harborer having custody of a dog or cat which has been
surgically sterilized within ten weeks after giving birth to a litter or who
relinquishes the dog or cat to the Department within ten weeks following the
birth date of the litter; or
      (6)   An owner or harborer of a dog or cat which has delivered a litter,
who chooses not to relinquish such animal to the Department and also chooses
not to have such animal surgically sterilized;
      (7)   Such persons shall be required to purchase a minor breeder’s permit
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and shall pay the minor
breeder’s permit fee of $10, plus any applicable kennel/cattery permit fee.
   (D)   The person described in division (C) above shall:
      (1)   Be permitted to breed only one dog or one cat which produces only
one litter of puppies or kittens in a 12-month period in such person’s domestic
household or any other domestic household; and
      (2)   Be prohibited from offering for sale, selling, exchanging,
transferring, receiving compensation for or giving away more than one litter of
puppies or one litter of kittens in a 12-month period; with the exception of a
litter of puppies or kittens relinquished to the Department; and
      (3)   Furnish the Department with such information on the birth of each
litter of puppies or kittens as may be required to register such litter with
the Department and to be assigned a litter number; and
      (4)   Register with the Department the name, address, and telephone
number of each recipient of any puppy or kitten sold or transferred within five
days following the date of sale or transfer; and
      (5)   Provide the recipient of such puppy or kitten the litter number of
the animal received and the minor breeder’s permit number to confirm the
breeding and sale of such puppy or kitten in compliance with the requirements
of the this chapter; and
      (6)   Immunize all cats and dogs offered for sale, exchange, transfer, or
giveaway, with the exception of an animal(s) relinquished to the Department,
against common disease: for dogs, against canine distemper, adeno-virus
parainfluenza, parvovirus, coronavirus, and leptospirosis; and for cats,
against feline rhinotracheitis-calici, and panleucopenia; and
      (7)   Not offer a puppy or kitten for sale, exchange, transfer, or
giveaway in violation of §
90.03; and
      (8)   Provide an unqualified health warranty for such puppy or kitten for
a period of not less than ten days following the date of delivery which
warranty shall include a recommendation to have such puppy or kitten examined
by a state licensed veterinarian within such health warranty period.
   (E)   Costs.
      (1)   The owner or harborer of a dog or cat which has been altered within
ten weeks after birthing a litter or who relinquishes such animal to the
Department within ten weeks following the delivery date of the litter, shall be
required to purchase a minor breeder’s permit for $10; or
      (2)   The owner or harborer of a dog or cat that has delivered a litter,
who neither relinquishes the animal to the Department nor alters the animal,
shall be required to purchase a minor breeder’s permit for $100; and
      (3)   Any applicable kennel/cattery permit fee.
   (F)   All minor breeder permits will be issued under this section only after
inspection and approval by the Department, provided all other requirements of
this chapter are met.
   (G)   A late fee will be assessed for a permit renewal that is in excess of
30 days beyond the expiration date. A permit reinstatement fee will be assessed
when requesting re-inspection for approval after a revocation of a permit has
occurred.
(Ord. G-21-15, passed 7-30-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violators of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor
more than $1,000.
      (2)   Each offense shall be considered a separate offense and subject to
fine and/or other disposition as herein provided.
      (3)   In the event that an animal is retained at the animal control
shelter because its owner has been in violation of this chapter, the person
redeeming the animal by paying the fine shall also be subject to paying for
medical bills incurred for routine shots for said animal.
      (4)   Violators, upon conviction, may be required to work at the animal
control shelter and/or participate in a humane education program if so
recommended by the court.
      (5)   Each 24 hours that a violation occurs will be considered a separate
offense and can be cited as such.
      (6)   Violations of this chapter may result in immediate impoundment of
animals.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty may be provided, shall be fined not more than $500. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   For violation of §
90.36(A), (B) or (C) of this chapter, the following fines shall be imposed by a
court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the procedures set forth by
the laws of the state, including I.C. 34-28-5 as amended:
      (1)   First offense: $75;
      (2)   Second offense within a one-year period: $100; and
      (3)   Third or subsequent offense within a one-year period: the violator
must appear in court and shall be fined not less than $100, and not more than
$1,000.
   (D)   Upon finding a violation involving one or more sections of this
chapter pertaining to animal fighting, public safety, animal cruelty or
neglect, animal hoarding, or habitual animal offenders have been violated, the
court may order no animal ownership for a determinate period. The court may
mandate counseling upon a conviction of cruelty to an animal or animal
hoarding.
   (E)   Upon finding of a violation of this chapter, the court may order the
relinquishment of an animal(s) to the Department for disposition when:
      (1)   An animal(s) is deemed to be a public safety risk and/or a
repetitive public nuisance that has not been abated; or
      (2)   An animal(s) is the victim of cruelty, neglect, abandonment, or
hoarding; or
      (3)   Animals exceeding the maximum number ordered by the court are in
the possession of a convicted habitual animal offender of an animal hoarder.
   (F)   The court shall order the destruction of an animal(s) found to be
dangerous pursuant to §
90.08. Destruction of the animal(s) does not preclude imposition of fines or
fees for each offense as outlined in division (A) above.
   (G)   In the event an animal(s) is retained by the Department because the
owner or harborer of such animal(s) violated this chapter, the person redeeming
the animal(s) by paying the prescribed fees shall also be required to pay costs
incurred by the Department for the impoundment and care of the animal(s)
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Surgeries;
      (2)   Medications and preventative care;
      (3)   X-rays;
      (4)   Examinations, diagnostics, medical treatment;
      (5)   Boarding;
      (6)   Rescue equipment; and
      (7)   Perishable personal protection equipment
   (H)   Violation of this chapter may result in revocation of any or all
current permits and may require re-inspection and approval by the Department
prior to reinstatement or reissuance and subsequent fees.
   (I)   Upon finding an owner or harborer has violated this chapter, the court
may order restitution by the owner or harborer including but not limited to:
      (1)   Medical, veterinary, and/or pharmaceutical bills;
      (2)   Replacement cost of animal(s);
      (3)   Property damage;
      (4)   Lost wages; and
      (5)   Counseling or psychological treatment obtained by the victim which
relates directly to the violation incident.
   (J)   Upon finding an owner or harborer has violated §§
90.36(A) or
90.05(D)(5) of this chapter, the court shall order a microchip be implanted at
redemption at the owner or harborer’s expense.
   (K)   Upon finding an owner or harborer has violated §§
90.36(A), (B), or (C) of this chapter, the court shall order all stray or
unrestrained animal(s) being redeemed for the second or subsequent redemption
be surgically sterilized by a state-licensed veterinarian at the owner or
harborer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. G-84-27, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. G-85-17, passed 8-
13-1985; Ord. G-86-3, passed 2-11-1986; Ord. G-02-1, passed 4-9-2002; Ord. G-
21-15, passed 7-30-2021)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Smoke detectors
   
91.02   Opening or tampering with fire hydrants
   
91.03   Open burning
   
91.04   Fire lanes and hydrants
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.15   Adoption
   
91.16   Enforcement
   
91.17   Title
   
91.18   Purpose
   
91.19   Scope
   
91.20   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
91.21   Inspection, testing, maintenance and records
   
91.22   Amendments
   
91.23   Appeals
Fireworks
   
91.35   Scope
   
91.36   Definitions
   
91.37   Consumer fireworks
   
91.38   Fireworks
   
91.39   Posting of sign
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALARM SIGNAL. An audible signal indicating the detection of visible or
invisible particles or products of combustion, other than heat.
      AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION. The New Haven-Adams Township Fire
Department, which has enforcement responsibility for this section.
      FAMILY LIVING UNIT. The structure, area, room or combination of rooms in
which a family or individual lives. This is meant to cover living area only,
and not common usage areas in multi-family buildings, such as corridors,
lobbies, basements and the like.
      LABELED. Equipment or materials to which has been attached a label,
symbol or other identifying mark of an organization acceptable to the authority
having jurisdiction.
      LISTED. Equipment or materials included in a list published by an
organization acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction, and which product
meets appropriate standards or has been tested and found suitable for use in a
specific manner.
      NFPA74. Standard 74 of the National Fire Protection Association, which is
located in Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MD 02269.
      RENTAL AGENT. Any person, partnership or corporation who rents,
subleases, lets or otherwise grants for a consideration the right to occupy
premises not owned by the occupant. This term shall not be construed to mean a
real estate agent who is employed for the sole purpose of selling residential
units.
      SLEEPING AREAS. The area or areas of the family living unit in which are
contained the bedrooms or sleeping rooms, separated by other use areas, such as
kitchens or living rooms (but not bathrooms).
      SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects visible or invisible particles or
products of combustion other than heat, as approved by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc. or Factory Mutual. The smoke detector shall be equipped with
a test button, and it shall produce an alarm signal upon detection of any
visible or invisible particles or products of combustion. It may be either
battery-powered with a minimum nine-volt alternating current.
   (B)   Basic requirements. All family living units within the corporate
limits of the city shall be equipped with a minimum of one functional, properly
located, labeled and listed smoke detector, or its equivalent or better, as
described in §
91.99 of this chapter.
   (C)   Installation; location.
      (1)   A minimum of one smoke detector, or its equivalent or better, as
described in NFPA74, shall be installed in each family living unit within the
corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   All smoke detectors must be installed according to the
manufacturer’s directions and subject to the approval of the authority having
jurisdiction.
      (3)   The smoke detector shall be installed to protect the sleeping
areas, and shall be located outside of the bedrooms, but in the immediate
vicinity of the sleeping areas, within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping
areas.
      (4)   The smoke detector shall be installed on or near the ceiling, not
less than six inches from any wall, or on a wall, not less than six inches, nor
more than 12 inches, from the ceiling, and its installation shall be subject to
approval by the authority having jurisdiction. No detector shall be recessed
into the ceiling.
      (5)   All smoke detectors shall be accessible for servicing and testing.
      (6)   If a smoke detector is alternating current powered, it must be
directly attached to a junction box not controlled by any switch other than the
main power supply. The installation of alternating current powered detectors
shall conform to all electrical standards adopted by the county’s Building
Department. A smoke detector required under this section shall be installed
according to the directions and specifications of the manufacturer, but if in
conflict with any county electrical standard, the county electrical standard
shall take precedence.
   (D)   Maintenance.
      (1)   General. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or
remove any smoke detector, except when it is necessary for maintenance or
inspection purposes. Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement shall
be reinstalled or replaced so that it is operable and in place during normal
sleeping hours.
      (2)   Rented residential dwelling units. Each smoke detector may be
tested in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations, but shall be tested
at six-month intervals in every individual residential dwelling unit, and
maintained as necessary, to ensure it is in operable condition before the unit
is reoccupied.
      (3)   Owner-occupied dwelling units. Each smoke detector may be tested in
accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations, but shall be tested at six-
month intervals, and maintained as necessary, to ensure it is in operable
condition.
   (E)   Duty of property owner, manager or rental agent. Every owner, or the
manager or rental agent of the owner, of any residential dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the installation of all smoke detectors. It is the
responsibility of the tenant to maintain all smoke detectors provided by the
owner in good working order until the tenant vacates the premises, unless the
smoke detector requires alternating current power supply; then the
responsibility for maintaining the smoke detector shall be the responsibility
of the owner, manager or rental agent of the property.
   (F)   Enforcement of provisions. The New Haven-Adams Township Fire
Department shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms and conditions
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 OPENING OR TAMPERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to open, turn on, tamper
with or take water from any fire hydrant of the Water Works Department of the
city unless the hydrant is used by a duly established municipal or volunteer
fire department or a person, firm or corporation authorized to take water from
a fire hydrant by the Superintendent of the Water Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      APPROVED CONTAINER. A device specifically designed for use of burning
wood or charcoal, including, but not limited to, portable fireplaces, fire pits
or chimineas. All portable devices must be equipped with a spark arrestor
(i.e., screen or chimney). The container must be sufficiently vented to induce
adequate primary combustion. Burning in barrels or drums is no longer
permitted.
      BARBEQUE PIT or GRILL. A stationary or portable device, with either
electric, gas, charcoal or wood used for the preparation of food.
      ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. New Haven Police Department, New Haven-Adams Township
Fire Department, New Haven City Code Enforcement Department, Allen County
Health Department, Allen County Sheriff’s Department and Allen County
Environmental Management Agency.
      HAZARDOUS CONDITION. A situation where the enforcement agency determines
that the fire may be capable of spreading or damaging other property or which
is unreasonably offensive to occupants of surrounding property.
      OPEN BURNING or OPEN FIRE. Any burning of combustible materials out of
doors, excluding burning in a barbeque pit or grill.
      RECREATIONAL OR CAMP FIRE. A recreational or camp fire shall not exceed a
total fuel area of three feet in diameter and may not exceed three feet in
height.
      WOOD PRODUCTS. Untreated and unpainted lumber or natural wood. WOOD
PRODUCTS do not include vines, leaves, grass or other plant material.
      PERMISSIBLE VEGETATION. Natural vegetation or plant material excluding
wood products, grass, leaves, poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac.
   (B)   Burning prohibited. No person, firm, business or other entity shall
kindle or maintain any open burning, except for burning described in division
(C) below. No burning is permitted in apartment complexes or mobile home parks
whatsoever.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Fires celebrating residential, religious or public activities which
exceed size restrictions of a residential or camp fire may be maintained upon
prior approval of the Fire Chief or his or her designee;
      (2)   Fires for scouting activities;
      (3)   Camp fires;
      (4)   Residential burning in approved containers.;
      (5)   Burning expressly permitted by state statute (I.C. 13-17-9-1);
      (6)   Residential barbeque pits or grills;
      (7)   Customary burning of logs and other wood products in residential
fireplaces and residential auxiliary heating devices;
      (8)   Ceremonial burning of U.S. flags;
      (9)   Burning of non-demolished dwellings by the Fire Department for the
purpose of fire training with approved permits from IDEM;
      (10)   Burning by Fire Department personnel following a natural disaster,
or when there is a health, safety or environmental hazard; and
      (11)   Use of an approved air curtain destructor as approved by IDEM.
   (D)   Restrictions. Otherwise, lawful burning is subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   Only wood products and permissible vegetation shall be burned. All
other material is unlawful to burn including, but not limited to, leaves,
grass, animal or vegetable solids, semi-solid waste resulting from process like
processing, preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food or food
products, petroleum products, rubber products, plastic products, liquid waste,
garbage or refuse, construction or demolition debris, wire, insulation and
every other material which is not a wood product or permissible vegetation, as
defined by this section.
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until extinguished.
      (3)   If a fire creates a hazardous condition, the fire shall be
extinguished.
      (4)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable conditions such as
temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnations and dry conditions.
      (5)   Locations of burning must be at least ten feet from any structure
and at least ten feet from adjoining property, sidewalk or public right-of-way
or street.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. G-11-02, passed 9-13-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FIRE LANES AND HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Accessibility. All retail establishments which a fire department may
be called upon to protect, in case of fires, that are not readily accessible
from public roads shall be provided with fire lanes so that all buildings on
the premises are accessible to fire and public safety apparatus.
   (B)   Application. Fire lanes shall be provided for all retail
establishments which are set back more than 150 feet from a public road, or
exceed 30 feet in height and are set back more than 50 feet from a public road.
   (C)   Distances. Fire lanes shall be at least 20 feet in width with the road
edge closest to the building, and at least ten feet from the building. Any fire
lane more than 300 feet long shall be provided with a turn-around at the
closest end at least 90 feet in diameter.
   (D)   Maintaining of fire lanes. It shall be unlawful for any person to park
motor vehicles on or otherwise obstruct any fire lane.
   (E)   Obstruction of fire hydrants. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park motor vehicles to obstruct use of any fire hydrant.
   (F)   Enforcement officials. The enforcement of this section shall be by the
Police Department, the Fire Chief or designated deputy and the Board of Public
Health by the Health Enforcement Officer.
   (G)   Enforcement of provisions. New Haven- Adams Township Fire Department
shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms and conditions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. G-11-02, passed 9-13-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.15 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the Uniform Fire Code, as from time to
time published by the International Conference of Building Officials and the
Western Fire Chiefs Association, 5360 South Workman Mill Road, Whitter,
California. The version of the Uniform Fire Code adopted by the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission and published in the Indiana
Administrative Code is adopted by the city save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, as fully as if set out at length
herein and from the date on which this section shall take affect the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993)
§ 91.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code adopted by §
91.15 of this chapter shall be jointly enforced by the city’s Police Department
and the New Haven-Adams Township Fire Department.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the
Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall recommend to the Board of
Works the employment of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is
made, shall be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for
the position.
(Prior Code, § 91.11) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993)
§ 91.17 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Fire Prevention Code of the City of New Haven, Allen County,
Indiana”, may be cited as such, and will be referred herein as “this
subchapter”.
(Prior Code, § 91.12) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993)
§ 91.18 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to prescribe regulations
consistent with nationally recognized good practice for the safeguarding to a
reasonable degree of life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion
arising from storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and
devices and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the use or
occupancy of buildings or premises.
(Prior Code, § 91.13) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993)
§ 91.19 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall supplement any and all laws
relating to fire safety and shall apply to all persons without restriction,
unless specifically exempted.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to existing conditions
as well as to conditions arising after the adoption of this subchapter; except
that, conditions legally in existence at the adoption of this subchapter and
not in strict compliance therewith shall be permitted to continue only if, in
the opinion of the Fire Chief, they do not constitute a distinct hazard to life
or property.
   (C)   Where there is conflict between a general requirement and specific
requirement for an individual occupancy, the specific requirement shall be
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 91.14) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993)
§ 91.20 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   Fire safety regulations of the state’s Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set forth in the following articles of Title 675 of the state’s
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter and
shall include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in
the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
   (A)   Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22-2.5-1 and following);
   (B)   Indiana Building Code (675 I.A.C. 13-2.6 and following);
   (C)   Indiana Electrical Code (675 I.A.C. 17-1.1.8-1 and following); and
   (D)   Indiana Mechanical Code (675 I.A.C. 18-1.6-1 and following).
(Prior Code, § 91.15) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993)
§ 91.21 INSPECTION, TESTING, MAINTENANCE AND RECORDS.
   (A)   All system inspections, tests, and maintenance that are required by
applicable fire standards or regulations shall be performed by qualified
individuals who are licensed to perform work in the County of Allen, Indiana
and written reports of such inspections, testing, maintenance, shall be kept on
the premises for a minimum of three years.
   (B)   All inspections and maintenance reports required to be furnished to
the fire department shall be electronically forwarded to the fire department
using the IROL System (lnspectionReportsOnLine.net). Any individual or company
doing inspection and maintenance shall be required to register with IROL.
   (C)   Inspections, tests, and maintenance that do not comply with the
provisions in this chapter shall result in the inspected or serviced system
being deemed non-compliant with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. G-24-20, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 91.22 AMENDMENTS.
   The Uniform Fire Code adopted by the state’s Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission and published in the Indiana Administrative Code is hereby
supplemented with the following additions.
   (A)   Unlawful continuance of fire hazard. Any person operating or
maintaining any occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to this subchapter who
shall permit any fire hazard to exist on premises under his or her control or
who shall fail to take immediate action to abate a fire hazard when ordered or
notified to do so by the Chief or his or her duly authorized representative
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Compliance with order or notice. Any order or notice issued or served
as provided in this subchapter shall be complied with by the owner, operator,
occupant or other person responsible for the condition or violation to which
the order or notice pertains. In cases of extreme danger to persons or
property, immediate compliance shall be required. If the building or other
premises is owned by one person and occupied by another, under lease or
otherwise, and the order or notice requires additions or changes in the
building or premises such as would immediately become real estate and be the
property of the owner of the building or premises, such order or notice shall
be complied with by the owner unless the owner and occupant have otherwise
agreed between themselves, in which event the occupant shall comply.
   (C)   Compliance with condemnation tag. A building, premises or thing shall
not be used when in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   Removal or destruction of signs or tags. A sign or tag posted or
affixed by the Chief or his or her authorized representative shall not be
mutilated, destroyed or removed without authority to do so.
   (E)   Authority at fires and other emergencies. The Chief or his or her
authorized representatives, as may be in charge at the scene of a fire or other
emergency involving the protection of life and/or property or any part thereof,
shall have the power and authority to direct such operation as may be necessary
to extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue operation, investigate
the existence of suspected or reported fires, gas leak or other hazardous
conditions or situations or of taking any other action necessary in the
reasonable performance of their duty. In the exercise of such power, the Chief
or his or her authorized representatives may prohibit any person, vehicle,
vessel or thing from approaching the scene and may remove or cause to be
removed or kept away from the scene any vehicle, vessel or thing which may
impede or interfere with the operations of the Fire Department and, in the
judgment of the Chief or his or her authorized representatives, any person not
actually and usefully employed in the extinguishing of such fire or in the
preservation of property in the vicinity thereof.
   (F)   Interference with Fire Department. Any person who obstructs the
operations of the Fire Department in connection with extinguishing any fire, or
other emergency, or disobeys any lawful command of the Chief or Office of the
Fire Department who may be in charge at such a scene, or any part thereof, or
any police officer assisting the Fire Department, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (G)   Authority to barricade. The Chief or other officer of the Fire
Department in charge at the scene of an emergency shall have the authority to
place ropes, guards, barricades or other obstructions across any street, alley,
place or private property in the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent
accident or interference with the lawful efforts of the Fire Department to
manage and control the situation and to handle fire apparatus.
   (H)   Tampering with fire equipment. No person shall molest, tamper with,
damage or otherwise disturb any apparatus, equipment or appurtenance belonging
to or under the supervision and control of the Fire Department without
authority from the Chief or his or her authorized representative to do so.
   (I)   Tampering with barricades and the like. No person, except a person
authorized by the Chief or a public officer acting within the scope of his or
her public duties, shall remove, unlock, destroy, tamper with or otherwise
molest in any manner any lock, gate, door, barricade, chain, enclosure, sign,
tag or seal which has been lawfully installed by the Fire Department or by its
order or under its control.
   (J)   Obstruction of fire protection equipment.
      (1)   General. No person shall place or keep any post, fence, vehicle,
growth, trash, storage or other material or thing near any fire hydrant, Fire
Department connection or fire protection system control valve that would
prevent such equipment or hydrant from being immediately discernible or in any
other manner deter or hinder the Fire Department from gaining immediate access
to said equipment or hydrant. A minimum three-foot clear space shall be
maintained around the circumference of the fire hydrants, except as otherwise
required or approved by the Chief.
      (2)   Identification of hydrants or equipment. All fire protection
equipment or hydrants shall be clearly identified in a manner approved by the
Chief to prevent parking or other obstruction.
   (K)   Fire apparatus roads.
      (1)   General. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Where required. Fire apparatus access roads shall be required for
every building hereafter constructed when any portion of an exterior wall of
the first story is located more than 50 feet from Fire Department vehicle
access.
         (a)   Exceptions:
            1.   When buildings are completely protected with an approved
automatic fire sprinkler system, the provisions of this section may be
modified;
            2.   When access roadways cannot be installed due to topography,
waterways, non- negotiable grades or other similar conditions, the Chief may
require additional fire protection as specified in §
10.01(b) of the Uniform Fire Code; and
            3.   When there are not more than two Group R, Division 3 or Group
M Occupancies, the requirements of this section may be modified; provided, in
the opinion of the Chief, firefighting or rescue operations would not be
impaired.
         (b)   More than one fire apparatus road may be required when it is
determined by the Chief that access by a single road may be impaired by vehicle
congestion, conditions of terrain, climatic conditions or other factors that
could limit access.
      (3)   Width. The unobstructed width of a fire apparatus access road shall
be not less than 20 feet.
      (4)   Vertical clearance. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an
unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet, six inches.
Exceptions: upon approval, vertical clearance may be reduced; provided, such
reduction does not impair access by fire apparatus and approved signs are
installed and maintained indicating the established vertical clearance.
      (5)   Permissible modifications. Vertical clearances or widths required
by this section shall be increased when, in the opinion of the Chief, vertical
clearances or widths are not adequate to provide fire apparatus access.
      (6)   Surface. Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and
maintained to support the imposed loads of fire apparatus and shall be provided
with a surface so as to provide all-weather driving capabilities.
      (7)   Turning radius. The turning radius of a fire apparatus access road
shall be as approved by the Chief.
      (8)   Turnarounds. All dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of
150 feet in length shall be provided with approved provisions for the turning
around of fire apparatus.
      (9)   Bridges. When a bridge is required to be used as access under this
section, it shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the
applicable sections of the Building Code and shall use designed live loading
sufficient to carry the imposed loads of fire apparatus.
      (10)   Grade. The gradient for a fire apparatus access road shall not
exceed the maximum approved by the Chief.
      (11)   Obstruction. The required width of any fire apparatus access road
shall not be obstructed in any manner, including parking of vehicles. Minimum
required widths and clearances established under this section shall be
maintained at all times.
      (12)   Signs. When required, approved signs or other approved notices
shall be provided and maintained for fire apparatus access roads to identify
such roads and prohibit the obstruction thereof, or both.
   (L)   Premises identification. Approved numbers or addresses shall be placed
on all new and existing buildings in such a position as to be plainly visible
and legible from the street or road fronting the property. Said numbers shall
contrast with their background.
   (M)   Key box.
      (1)   When access to or within a structure or an area is unduly difficult
because of secure openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-
saving or firefighting purposes, the Chief may require a key box to be
installed in an accessible location.
      (2)   The key box shall be a type approved by the Chief and shall contain
keys to gain necessary access as required by the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993; Ord. G-24-20, passed 12-
17-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 APPEALS.
   Whenever it is claimed that the provisions of this subchapter do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of this subchapter have been misconstrued
or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision to the Board
of Public Works of the city within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) (Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993; Ord. G-24-20, passed 12-
17-2024)
FIREWORKS
§ 91.35 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall regulate the use, ignition or discharge of fireworks
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.50)
§ 91.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK.
      (1)   A small firework that is designated primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. part 1507. The
term also includes some small devices designated to produce an audible effect,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. Propelling and expelling charges consisting of a mixture
of charcoal sulfur and potassium nitrate are not considered to be designed to
produce an audible effect.
      (2)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS include:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include, but are not limited to, sky
rockets, missile type rockets, helicopter or aerial spinners, Roman candles,
mines and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include, but are not limited to,
firecrackers, salutes and chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (2)(a) and (2)(b) above.
      (3)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not include the following fireworks as
referenced in I.C. 22-11-14-8(a):
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However, the total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item: and, devices containing chlorate
or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams per item;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains;
         (c)   Cone fountains;
         (d)   Illuminating torches;
         (e)   Wheels;
         (f)   Ground spinners;
         (g)   Flitter sparklers;
         (h)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (i)   Smoke devices; and
         (j)   Trick noisemakers that include party poppers, booby traps,
snappers trick matches, cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms.
   FIREWORK.
      (1)   Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS
consist of both common fireworks and special fireworks, including CONSUMER
FIREWORKS.
      (2)   The following items are excluded from the definition of FIREWORKS:
         (a)   Model rockets;
         (b)   Toy pistol caps;
         (c)   Emergency signal flares;
         (d)   Matches;
         (e)   Fixed ammunition for firearms;
         (f)   Ammunition components intended for use in firearms, muzzle
loading cannons or small arms;
         (g)   Shells, cartridges and primers for use in firearms, muzzle
loading cannons or small arms;
         (h)   Indoor pyrotechnics special effects material; and
         (i)   M-80s, cherry bombs, silver salutes and any device banned by the
federal government.
(Prior Code, § 93.51)
§ 91.37 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person within the city may use, ignite or discharge or permit to be
used, ignited or discharged any type of consumer fireworks on any other day or
time other than the following:
      (1)   June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7,
July 8, July 9, between the hours of 5:00 p.m. to two hours after sunset;
      (2)   Day before Memorial Day, Memorial Day, July 4, day before Labor Day
and Labor Day between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (B)   No person may use, ignite or discharge or permit to be used, ignited
or discharged any consumer fireworks within the city in or on any of the
following without the express written consent of the owner:
      (1)   Park;
      (2)   Playground;
      (3)   School property;
      (4)   Church property; or
      (5)   Parking lot.
   (C)   No person may use, ignite or discharge or permit to be used, ignited
or discharged any consumer fireworks within the city upon any public street,
alley or sidewalk, without the prior consent of the city’s Board of Works.
(Prior Code, § 93.52) (Ord. G-10-03, passed 8-10-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 FIREWORKS.
   No person within the city may use, ignite or discharge or permit to be used,
ignited or discharged, any fireworks other than consumer fireworks, except in
accordance with I.C. 22-11-14-2.
(Prior Code, § 93.53) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 POSTING OF SIGN.
   (A)   Any person, firm or organization selling, or in any fashion
distributing, consumer fireworks within the city shall, during all hours of
operation, post a conspicuous sign, at least eight and one-half inches by 11
inches in size, printed in English, with characters of not less than 24 points
in size, in substantial conformity with the following:
 
NOTICE
Municipal Code §§
91.35 through
91.39 limit the use, ignition or discharge of consumer fireworks in the City of
New Haven to the following dates and times:
(1)   June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8,
July 9, between the hours of 5:00 p.m. to two hours after sunset;
(2)   Day before Memorial Day, Memorial Day, July 4, day before Labor Day, and
Labor Day between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight; and
(3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
Fireworks may not be used, ignited or discharged upon any public street, alley or
sidewalk, without the prior consent of the New Haven Board of Works, and may not
be used, ignited or discharged in any park, playground, school property or church
property without the express written consent of the owner.
Violation may result in a fine not to exceed $500 for each separate offense.
 
   (B)   The Chief of the New Haven-Adams Township Fire Department may
designate and distribute the form of sign required by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 93.54) (Ord. G-07-04, passed 6-26-2007)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
91.03 of this chapter is subject to a $50 fine per occurrence, plus court
costs. If a violation is found to be willful or intentional, the fine may be
increased to up to $500 per occurrence.
      (2)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing or allowing of a new
fire after notice of violation has been issued shall be considered a separate
offense.
      (3)   Enforcement of §
91.03 of this chapter may be carried out by the city’s Police Department, the
New Haven-Adams Township Fire Department, the city’s Code Enforcement
Department, the county’s Health Department, the county’s Sheriff’s Department
and the county’s Environmental Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.22 of this chapter or standards hereby adopted or failed to comply
therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order thereunder, or
who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or
plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder and from which an appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply
with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city, within the time fixed
herein shall severally for each and every such violation and non-compliance, be
liable to a fine of not more than $1,500. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The
application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 91.18)
(Ord. G-92-22, passed 1-12-1993; Ord. G-11-02, passed 9-13-2011)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Filth on Grounds and Streets
   
92.001   Cleaning sidewalks in front of buildings
   
92.002   Depositing certain substances on ground
   
92.003   Removal of waste materials from houses and structures of every kind
   
92.004   Failure of owner to remove
   
92.005   Definitions
Nuisances
   
92.020   Sewage sludge
   
92.021   Weeds
   
92.022   Ashes, rubbish and debris
   
92.023   Alcoholic beverages
Junk Cars
   
92.035   Definition; exemption
   
92.036   Declared to be public nuisance
   
92.037   Authority of Police Department to order removal
   
92.038   Notice to owner
   
92.039   Disposal of junk cars
Noise Control
   
92.050   Scope
   
92.051   Definitions
   
92.052   Enumeration of certain prohibited acts
   
92.053   Prohibited noise
   
92.054   Certain acts constitute public nuisance
   
92.055   Exemptions
Minimum Property Standards
   
92.070   Definitions
   
92.071   General requirements
   
92.072   Extermination
   
92.073   Failure of owner to cure
Smoking
   
92.085   Definitions
   
92.086   Purpose and objective
   
92.087   Posting of signs
 
   
92.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 90
   Fire Prevention; Fireworks, see
Ch. 91
   General Offenses, see Title XIII
FILTH ON GROUNDS AND STREETS
§ 92.001 CLEANING SIDEWALKS IN FRONT OF BUILDINGS.
   Every occupant, lessee or owner of any house or other building, person
entitled to the possession of any vacant lot, or any person in charge of any
church, jail, public hall or other building in the city shall at all times keep
the sidewalks clear from any dirt or filth to allow citizens to use the
sidewalks in an easy and convenient manner.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 36, passed 2-2-1916) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.002 DEPOSITING CERTAIN SUBSTANCES ON GROUND.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit, cause to be thrown or
deposited, or permit any child, servant, member of the family, or any other
person under his or her control to throw or deposit any manure, rubbish,
garbage, refuse, bottles, broken glass, glassware, broken dishes, crockery,
bricks, rocks, old building material, grass clippings, dead trees or parts
thereof, slops, putrid or unsound animal or vegetable matter, or any filthy,
noisome or unwholesome liquid or slops, or substances that are liable to become
unwholesome, in, into or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, crossing,
lot, cellar, premises, parcel of real estate or common within the limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. G-19-72, passed 11-14-1972; Ord. G-1-74, passed 2-
19-1974) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 REMOVAL OF WASTE MATERIALS FROM HOUSES AND STRUCTURES OF EVERY KIND.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any dwelling house,
building or structure of any kind or description whatsoever and of any lot or
parcel of real estate within the limits of the city to remove or cause to be
removed from the dwelling house, building, structure, lot or parcel of real
estate all ashes, waste, refuse, unwholesome materials and impure substances of
every kind and description.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. G-1-74, passed 2-19-1974) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 FAILURE OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the failure of any owner, lessee or occupant to remove
waste materials as provided for in §
92.003 of this chapter, the City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designated
deputy for that purpose, may demand that the waste materials be removed within
ten days. The demand shall be served upon the owner, lessee or occupant by
either of the following methods:
         (a)   Delivery by registered or certified mail to the owner, lessee or
occupant, at the address last shown on the city records, of a written notice of
violation of this subchapter; or
         (b)   Posting in a visible place upon the premises a notice of
violation of this subchapter and sending, by first class mail, to the owner,
lessee or occupant, at the address last shown on the city records, a written
notice of violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   The City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designated deputy for that
purpose, may, but shall not be required to, provide such additional notice as
he or she may determine appropriate under the circumstances.
   (B)   If the owner, lessee or occupant of the real estate fails to remove
the waste materials within the time demanded, the city may remove the waste
materials.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the removal of waste materials by the city, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the
city in such removal, which certified statement shall include administrative
expenses.
      (2)   The certified statement shall be delivered to the owner, lessee or
occupant of the real estate by registered mail.
      (3)   If the owner, lessee or occupant fails to pay the amount certified
on the statement within ten days after receipt of the statement, a certified
copy of the statement shall be filed in the office of the Auditor of the
county, and the amount contained thereon shall be added to the tax duplicate of
the property affected by the work.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. G-12-06, passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms GARBAGE, RUBBISH, WASTE and REFUSE shall include scrap copper,
brass, iron, steel or other metals, or materials including, but not limited to,
tires, household appliances, furniture, rope, boxes, barrels, rags, batteries,
glass, rubber debris, construction debris, plumbing fixtures and all other
articles customarily considered trash or junk and which are not housed in a
building.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. G-12-02, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. G-12-06, passed 3-
13-2012)
NUISANCES
§ 92.020 SEWAGE SLUDGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or association of persons to
possess or to apply to any property within the city limits any sewage sludge or
any fertilizer or soil amendment derived from the processing of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to any bagged, dried sludge, if the
sludge meets all United States Environmental Protection Agency standards for
application to soil for the production of food for human consumption and if
compliance with such standards is prominently certified to on the bag.
(Prior Code, § 93.02)
(Ord. G-89-5, passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.021 WEEDS.
   (A)   Weeds to be removed.
      (1)   Weeds and other rank vegetation growing upon any real estate in the
city are declared a nuisance.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any weeds or
other rank vegetation to be or remain upon any property owned, leased, occupied
by or under the control of such person located within the city.
      (3)   Any poison ivy, ragweed, thistle, poison oak or any growth of grass
or weed, excluding agricultural crops or commodities or plants grown for
recognized agricultural uses such as erosion or pest control, in excess of nine
inches in height shall be considered as weeds or other rank vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 93.04)
   (B)   Failure of owner to remove.
      (1)   The city hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-10-3.
      (2)   (a)   Upon the failure of any owner, lessee or occupant of real
estate to cut or remove the weeds as provided for above, the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer, or his or her designated deputy for that purpose, may demand that
the weeds or other rank vegetation be cut or removed within five days. The
demand shall be served upon the owner, lessee or occupant by either of the
following methods:
            1.   Delivery by registered or certified mail to the owner, lessee
or occupant, at the address last shown on the city records, of a written notice
of violation of this section; or
            2.   Posting in a visible place upon the premises a notice of
violation of this section and sending, by first class mail, to the owner,
lessee or occupant, at the address last shown on the city records, a written
notice of violation of this section.
         (b)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designated deputy for
that purpose, may, but shall not be required to, provide such additional notice
as he or she may determine appropriate under the circumstances.
      (3)   If the owner, lessee or occupant of real estate fails to cut or
remove the weeds or other rank vegetation within the time demanded, the city
may remove the vegetation.
      (4)   Upon cutting or removal of the weeds or other rank vegetation by
the city, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the
actual cost incurred by the city in such removal, which certified statement
shall include administrative expenses. The certified statement shall be
delivered to the owner, lessee or occupant of the real estate by registered
mail. If the owner, lessee or occupant fails to pay the amount certified on the
statement within ten days after receipt of the statement, a certified copy of
the statement shall be filed in the office of the Auditor of the county, and
the amount contained thereon shall be added to the tax duplicate of the
property affected by the work.
(Prior Code, § 93.05)
   (C)   Exemptions. The Board of Public Works and Safety may authorize an
exemption to the provisions of division (B) above upon application of any
person; provided that, the Board of Public Works and Safety finds that the
exemption is sought for cultivated land in commercial, domestic, agricultural
or horticultural use or as a natural developed forest and which does not create
a health or safety hazard or does not otherwise create a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.08)
   (D)   Administrative expense.
      (1)   The administrative expense fee shall be charged to the owner of
property as identified by public records held by the County Recorder or
Assessor’s offices when the city incurs costs to abate an ordinance violation;
and
      (2)   The amount of the administrative expense fee shall be equal to the
cost of recording and releasing a lien on the property, and the estimated time
spent by the Code Enforcement Officer and the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office in
processing the ticket and the lien. The estimate for the cost to write the
ticket, provide the homeowner with notice, process the ticket, track the
accounting, record the lien and release the lien is estimated at two and one-
half hours. The average hourly rate of city employees performing these tasks is
$19 per hour, for total labor costs of approximately $47.50. Additionally, the
costs to record and release a lien are $25, for total expenses of $72.50.
Accordingly, the administrative expense fee shall be set at $70.
(Ord. G-88-14, passed 9-13-1988; Ord. G-94-8, passed 10-25-1994; Ord. G-97-13,
passed 7-8-1997; Res. R-09-03, passed 7-7-2009; Res. R-15-01, passed 8-4-2015)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.022 ASHES, RUBBISH AND DEBRIS.
   It is a public nuisance and a danger to the users of a city street, alley or
sidewalk to allow the dumping or depositing of ashes, rubbish or debris on the
streets, alleys and sidewalks unless the same is contained in a can, box or
containers for pick-up purposes and removed within the following 48-hour period
of time.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. G-34-79, passed 11-13-1979) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.023 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Sale of alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to offer for sale intoxicating liquors and/or beer on his, her
or their premises or in his, her or their establishments within the corporate
limits of the city, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 97.01)
   (B)   Consumption of alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation doing business within the corporate limits of the
city to permit the use of, or consumption of intoxicating liquors or beer
within his, her or their establishments between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m.
(Prior Code, § 97.02)
(Ord. 544, passed 3-13-1934) Penalty, see §
92.999
JUNK CARS
§ 92.035 DEFINITION; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK CAR. Any motor vehicle which:
         (a)   Does not bear a currently valid and legal license plate;
         (b)   Is not in a garage or other building;
         (c)   Is in a partially dismantled, non- operating, wrecked or junked
condition; and
         (d)   Does not have the appearance of or contain all of the parts and
accessories of the same make and model automobile when manufactured and
assembled by the manufacturer. Any one or all of the above criteria may be used
in making a determination that an automobile is a JUNK CAR.
   (B)   A person or business holding a salvage license from the state’s
Department of Environmental Management is exempt from this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.30) (Ord. G-13-79, passed 7-10-1979; Ord. G-12-03, passed 2-
28-2012)
§ 92.036 DECLARED TO BE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Because of the danger to health from vermin, rodents and insects and to the
safety of children attracted by junk cars, junk cars are declared to be
nuisances, except if located in lawfully operated junk yards, or yards lawfully
operated for vehicles awaiting permission for junking from the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 93.31) (Ord. G-13-79, passed 7-10-1979) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.037 AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT TO ORDER REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Police Department may order a junk car removed from any
premises in the city, within five days after service and posting as provided in
§
92.038 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.32) (Ord. G-13-79, passed 7-10-1979)
§ 92.038 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The order to remove the junk car shall be placed upon the junk car,
and copies shall be served upon any adult occupying the real estate on which
the junk car is located and upon the owner of the junk car, if known.
   (B)   If no occupant of the real estate or owner of the junk car can be
found, a copy of the order affixed to any building on the real estate shall
constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate and to the owner
of the junk car.
   (C)   If there is no building on the real estate, the order may be affixed
elsewhere on the real estate.
(Prior Code, § 93.33) (Ord. G-13-79, passed 7-10-1979)
§ 92.039 DISPOSAL OF JUNK CARS.
   If the junk car is not removed within the time provided in §
92.037 of this chapter, the Police Department may cause the motor vehicle to be
removed at the expense of the owner of the real estate, the expense to
constitute a lien on the real estate; or the Police Department may cause the
junk car to be removed and to be disposed of in the same manner as now provided
by state law for the removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 93.34) (Ord. G-13-79, passed 7-10-1979)
NOISE CONTROL
§ 92.050 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to the control of all noise within the city
limits, as they exist now or may hereafter be established.
(Prior Code, § 92.40) (Ord. G-96-11, passed 10-22-1996)
§ 92.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle powered by a mechanical engine and designed to be
driven or used on any public or private property. Such definition shall
include, but not be limited to: automobiles; vans; trucks; motorcycles;
motorscooters; dune buggies; snowmobiles; all-terrain vehicles; go-carts;
minibikes; and trail bikes.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality.
(Prior Code, § 92.41) (Ord. G-96-11, passed 10-22-1996)
§ 92.052 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The following acts, uses or noises, among others, subject to specific
exemptions, are declared to be loud, raucous or disturbing noises in violation
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing of sound in such manner as to disturb the
peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with
louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in
the room, vehicle or property in which such machine or device is operated and
who is a voluntary listener;
      (2)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing of sound which is cast
upon other properties including the public right-of-way for the purposes of
commercial advertising or to attract attention to any activity, performance,
sale, place or structure;
      (3)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing any sound on any
public transportation vehicle; and
      (4)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound on any public
right-of-way adjacent to any school, institution of higher learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital which unreasonably
interferes with the working of such institution, or which unduly disturbs the
patients in the hospital.
(Prior Code, § 92.43) (Ord. G-96-11, passed 10-22-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.053 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated,
any machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound, if it is
located in or on any of the following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, park or thoroughfare, if the sound generated is audible at
a distance of 30 feet from its source; and/or
   (B)   Any motor vehicle on a public right-of-way, highway or public space if
the sound generated is audible at a distance of 30 feet from the device
producing the sound.
(Prior Code, § 92.44) (Ord. G-96-11, passed 10-22-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.054 CERTAIN ACTS CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following acts are declared to be a public nuisance, but the enumeration
of the particular offenses hereinafter particularly defined shall not be
construed as limiting the generality of this subchapter, or limiting the
offense hereunder to the particular offense hereinafter enumerated:
   (A)   The continuous or repeated sounding of any horn or signal device of a
motor vehicle when not used as a danger signal. CONTINUOUS shall be defined to
include unnecessary or unreasonable periods of time;
   (B)   The use of any motor vehicle with appurtenances attached thereto so as
to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise; and
   (C)   The use of any motor vehicle with or without the attachment of various
appurtenances thereto so as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise or noises. This shall include the use of any vehicle
said use of which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified
exhaust system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid acceleration,
decelerations, revving the engine or tire squeal.
(Prior Code, § 92.45) (Ord. G-96-11, passed 10-22-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.055 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions shall not be permitted within any “quiet zone” duly
established by the Common Council or Board of Works when such zone is designed
by appropriate signage.
   (B)   The following shall be exempted from the provisions of this
subchapter:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Farm tractors, garden tractors and similar home power tools when
properly muffled, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Burglar alarms or other warning devices when properly installed on
publicly or privately owned property; providing, the cause for such alarm
warning device sound is investigated and turned off within a reasonable period
of time;
      (4)   Otherwise lawful celebrations on Halloween and legal holidays;
      (5)   Permitted parades or public festivals, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 12:00 midnight, Sunday through Thursday; and between 8:00 a.m. and 1:
00 a.m., Friday through Saturday;
      (6)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic
or sporting events and practices related to them;
      (7)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or for the performance of emergency work;
      (8)   Sounds associated with normal conduction of a legally established
non-transient business when such sounds are customary, incidental and within
the normal range appropriate for such use; and
      (9)   In the case of motor vehicles, where the noise is the result of a
defective or modified exhaust system, if the cause is repaired or otherwise
remedied within seven calendar days.
(Prior Code, § 92.46) (Ord. G-96-11, passed 10-22-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
MINIMUM PROPERTY STANDARDS
§ 92.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
   GARBAGE, RUBBISH, WASTE and REFUSE. Scrap copper, brass, iron, steel or
other metals, or materials including, but not limited to, tires, household
appliances, furniture, rope, boxes, barrels, rags, batteries, glass, rubber
debris, construction debris, plumbing fixtures and all other articles
customarily considered trash or junk and which are not housed in a building.
   GRAFFITI. Pictures or words painted or drawn on an exterior wall or surface
of a structure.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rates, vermin or other pests.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building or having
possession of a place within a building.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as
a unit.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Prior Code, § 93.70) (Ord. G-13-18, passed 11-26-2013)
§ 92.071 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this subchapter. A person shall not occupy or
permit another person to occupy premises which do not comply with the
requirements of this code. Occupants of a structure are responsible for
compliance with this code for these portions of the premises which they occupy
and control.
   (B)   General property conditions.
      (1)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be
kept free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they
shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be
injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be
taken to eliminate rodent harborage and prevent re- infestation.
      (2)   Removal of waste materials from houses and structures of every
kind. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any dwelling house,
building or structure of any kind or description whatsoever and of any lot or
parcel of real estate within the limits of the city to remove or cause to be
removed from the dwelling house, building, structure, lot or parcel of real
estate all ashes, waste, refuse, unwholesome materials and impure substances of
every kind and description.
      (3)   Cleaning sidewalks in front of buildings. Every occupant, lessee or
owner of any house or other building, person entitled to the possession of any
vacant lot, or any person in charge of any church, jail, public hall or other
building in the city, shall at all times keep the sidewalks clear from any dirt
or filth to allow citizens to use the sidewalks in an easy and convenient
manner.
      (4)   Weeds to be removed.
         (a)   Weeds and other rank vegetation growing upon any real estate in
the city are declared a nuisance.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any weeds
or other rank vegetation to be or remain upon any property owned, leased,
occupied by or under the control of such person located within the city.
         (c)   Any poison ivy, ragweed, thistle, poison oak, or any growth of
grass or weed, excluding agricultural crops or commodities or plants grown for
recognized agricultural uses such as erosion or pest control, in excess of nine
inches in height shall be considered as weeds or other rank vegetation.
         (d)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may authorize an exemption
to the provisions of §
92.021 of this chapter upon application of any person, provided that the Board
of Public Works and Safety finds that the exemption is sought for cultivated
land in commercial, domestic, agricultural or horticultural use or as a natural
developed forest and which does not create a health or safety hazard or does
not otherwise create a nuisance.
      (5)   Standing water. An owner of property shall grade and maintain its
property in a manner which does not allow the pooling of standing water for
more than 72 consecutive hours in dry weather.
   (C)   Exterior structures.
      (1)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks
and loose or rotting materials.
      (2)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
      (3)   Graffiti. Structures shall be kept free from graffiti.
      (4)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be free from
defects that admit rain. Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be free from
vegetation and attached tightly to the structure.
      (5)   Broken glass. The structure shall be maintained free from broken
glass, including, but not limited to, glass contained in windows, doors and sky
lights.
      (6)   Structure extensions. All extensions of a structure including, but
not limited to, chimneys, porches, canopies and awnings shall be properly
anchored to the structure and shall not be permitted to lean from, or hang
from, the structure.
      (7)   Protective treatment. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints as
well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors
and skylights shall be maintained weather-resistant and water-tight. All metal
surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and
corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and
coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed
from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation or
non-ferrous materials are exempt from this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 93.71) (Ord. G-13-18, passed 11-26-2013) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.072 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent re-
infestation.
   (B)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (C)   Occupant(s). The occupant(s) of any structure shall be responsible for
the continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 93.72) (Ord. G-13-18, passed 11-26-2013) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.073 FAILURE OF OWNER TO CURE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the failure of any owner, lessee or occupant to cure a
violation as provided for in §§
92.071 and
92.072 of this chapter, the City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designated
deputy for that purpose, may demand that the violation be cured within ten
days. The demand shall be served upon the owner, lessee or occupant by either
of the following methods:
         (a)   Delivery by registered or certified mail to the owner, lessee or
occupant, at the address last shown on the city records, of a written notice of
violation of this subchapter; or
         (b)   Posting in a visible place upon the premises a notice of
violation of this subchapter and sending, by first class mail, to the owner,
lessee or occupant, at the address last shown on the city records, a written
notice of violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designated deputy for
that purpose, may, but shall not be required to, provide such additional notice
as he or she may determine appropriate under the circumstances.
   (B)   If the owner, lessee or occupant of the real estate fails to cure the
violation within the time demanded, the city may cure the violation.
   (C)   Upon the cure of the violation by the city, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer
shall make a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the city in
such action, which certified statement shall include administrative expenses.
The certified statement shall be delivered to the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real estate by registered mail. If the owner, lessee or occupant fails to
pay the amount certified on the statement within ten days after receipt of the
statement, a certified copy of the statement shall be filed in the office of
the Auditor of the county, and the amount contained thereon shall be added to
the tax duplicate of the property affected by the work.
(Prior Code, § 93.73) (Ord. G-13-18, passed 11-26-2013; Ord. G-14-01, passed 2-
11-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
SMOKING
§ 92.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. An enclosed structure or the part of any enclosed
structure, regardless of ownership that is one of the following:
      (1)   Occupied by an agency of state or local government;
      (2)   Used as a classroom building or a dining area at a state
educational institution (as defined in I.C. 20-12-0.5-1);
      (3)   Used as a public school (as defined in I.C. 20-10.1-1-2);
      (4)   Licensed as a health facility under I.C. 16-21 or I.C. 16-28;
      (5)   Used as a station for firefighters;
      (6)   Used as a station for police officers;
      (7)   Licensed as a child care center or child care home or registered as
a child care ministry under I.C. 12-17.2;
      (8)   Licensed as a hospital under I.C. 16-21 or a county hospital
subject to I.C. 16-22;
      (9)   The sales area of any drug, grocery or convenience store;
      (10)   The food storage or preparation area of any establishment where
food is prepared for consumption by the public, regardless of whether such
consumption is on or off the premises; or
      (11)   The public area of any establishment where food and beverages are
sold for consumption on the premises or where services or merchandise are
offered for sale to the public, unless such establishment has posted signs
permitting smoking in compliance with §
92.087 of this chapter.
   SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any
other lighted smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of smoke from
any lighted smoking equipment.
(Prior Code, § 99.01) (Ord. G-84-12, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. G-07-03, passed 5-
9-2007)
§ 92.086 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   Smoking in a public building in the city is prohibited; provided, however,
that, the official in charge of a public building may designate a smoking area
in the building.
(Prior Code, § 99.02) (Ord. G-84-12, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. G-07-03, passed 5-
9-2007) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.087 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The agency in charge of each public place defined in §
92.085 of this chapter and the operator of each public place defined in §
92.085 of this chapter shall post a conspicuous sign at the outside of each
entrance stating: “Smoking Is Prohibited in this Building” or words to the same
effect.
   (B)   (1)   The operator of each public place defined by §
92.085 of this chapter shall post a conspicuous sign at the outside of each
entrance stating in unambiguous terms whether smoking is prohibited or
permitted.
      (2)   The operator may post signs at such other locations as may be
conspicuous to patrons limiting smoking to specified times and/or areas.
(Prior Code, § 99.03) (Ord. G-07-03, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The penalties provided in this section shall be owing to the city,
in addition to any damages, costs or attorney fees which may be found owing to
the city or any other person in any civil litigation related to any nuisance
described in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.001 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $50.
      (2)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
92.002 or
92.003 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not less
than $100, or more than $500, and each day that a violation of any part of §§
92.002 and
92.003 of this chapter shall exist shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
   (C)   Violation of §
92.020(A) of this chapter shall result in a fine not to exceed $1,500 per day.
Each day on which sewage sludge is possessed within the city limits shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (D)   In addition to any other penalty provided for, any person who violated
§
92.021(B) of this chapter shall be fined not more than $100 for each violation.
Each day during which the weeds or other rank vegetation are permitted to grow
upon a separate platted city lot, or upon a single piece of contiguous real
estate if not platted, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
92.022 and
92.070 through 92.073 of this chapter shall, upon conviction or judgment, be
subject to a fine of not less than $50, and no more than $500, for each
violation, which fine shall be owing in addition to such reasonable removal,
storage and disposal charges as may be incurred by the city, or its contractor,
in abating the nuisance.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
92.023 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than $10, nor more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 97.99)
   (G)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating §§
92.035 through
92.039 of this chapter shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $300. Each and
every day these sections are violated constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   If any order to remove a junk car as provided in §§
92.035 through
92.039 of this chapter has been served and is not obeyed within the time
stated, the owner of the junk car and the occupant and owner of the real estate
upon which it is located shall each be guilty of a violation and upon
conviction shall be subject to a fine in a sum not exceeding $75. Each day the
junk car is permitted to remain on the real estate after the time fixed in the
order to remove the car, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable by an additional fine of $5 for each day.
   (H)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
92.050 through
92.055 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
$150, nor more than $500, for each offense. Each day any violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
   (I)   (1)   Each person, agency or operator violating any provision of §§
92.085 through
92.087 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 per
violation.
      (2)   Each day on which a sign is not posted at an entrance in compliance
with §
92.087(A) or (B) of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 99.04)
(Ord. 36, passed 2-2-1916; Ord. 577A, passed 8-5-1946; Ord. 625, passed 5-3-
1954; Ord. G-19-72, passed 11-14-1972; Ord. G-1-74, passed 2-19-1974; Ord. G-
85-11, passed 5-14-1985; Ord. G-88-14, passed 9-13-1988; Ord. G-89-5, passed 3-
14-1989; Ord. G-96-11, passed 10-22-1996; Ord. G-07-03, passed 5-9-2007; Ord.
G-07-04, passed 6-26-2007; Ord. G-09-13, passed 9-22-2009; Ord. G-13-20-13,
passed 11-26-2013)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS
Section
Laying, Relaying or Repair of Sidewalks
   
93.01   Work permit
   
93.02   Cash deposit required; liability bond; property owners desiring to do
own work
   
93.03   Removal of work debris; suitable barricades to be erected
   
93.04   City authority over sidewalks; sidewalk dimensions
   
93.05   Permanent surfacing of sidewalks
   
93.06   Grading of sidewalks
   
93.07   Coincidence with curb line
   
93.08   Required installation of public sidewalks within city limits
Excavation of Public Surfaces
   
93.20   Permit required
   
93.21   Permit application
   
93.22   Record of all permits issued
Duties of Property Owners or Occupants
   
93.35   Removal of snow from sidewalks
 
Engineering Department Fees
   
93.40   Engineering Department fee schedule
Games or Sports in Public Streets
   
93.50   Engaging in games or sports in public streets
 
   
93.99   Penalty
LAYING, RELAYING OR REPAIR
OF SIDEWALKS
§ 93.01 WORK PERMIT.
   A sidewalk permit must be secured from the city before commencing work for
each job done. The correct location, amount of work material to be used and the
party doing the work must be furnished before a permit can be issued.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED; LIABILITY BOND; PROPERTY OWNERS DESIRING TO DO
OWN WORK.
   (A)   Each person, firm or corporation regularly engaged in the laying,
relaying and repairing of sidewalks shall be required to deposit $10 in cash,
and shall give a liability bond in the sum of $500. The liability bond shall
save the city harmless from any loss or expenditure in any manner arising from
the conduct of any person, firm or corporation in laying, relaying or repairing
sidewalks; from any loss or damage which may arise by reason of any
obstruction, excavation, barrier guards or other objects or materials placed or
deposited in the streets during the progress of the work; or the expense of
removing the same and cleaning streets or sidewalks; and any loss or damage
arising from acts of negligence or default of the person, firm or corporation.
   (B)   The contractor shall be required to furnish a maintenance bond in an
amount equal to 50% of the contract price. The maintenance bond shall insure
that:
      (1)   Sidewalks layed, relayed or repaired will remain in good condition
to the satisfaction of the Common Council or the City Engineer for a full
period of three years from the laying, relaying or repairing; and
      (2)   Upon appearance of any defects, disintegration or default in the
sidewalk due to any acts, omission or default of the one laying it, the
sidewalk shall be immediately repaired and restored to a good and proper
condition to the satisfaction of the Common Council or the City Engineer, as to
such defects as may appear at any time within the period of three years of the
year of laying, relaying or repair of said sidewalks.
   (C)   The liability bond and the cash deposit, less any expense which may
have been charged against them by the city, shall be returned whenever the
person, firm or corporation entitled to lay, relay or repair sidewalks shall
have completed the work to the satisfaction of the Common Council or the City
Engineer.
   (D)   Property owners desiring to do their own work must comply with §
93.01 and this section of this chapter; except that, the maintenance bond will
not be required.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925; Ord. passed 7-10-1925)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 REMOVAL OF WORK DEBRIS; SUITABLE BARRICADES TO BE ERECTED.
   (A)   All debris and rubbish must be removed within 48 hours after the
completion of the work. During the process of construction, all excavations,
embankments and all materials on the ground shall be guarded by suitable
barricades and at night by red lights so as to protect the public from
accident.
   (B)   All cement walks shall have the top surface roughened, unless a
majority of the property owners so affected petition otherwise. The gutters of
any street contiguous to the work must be kept clear at all times.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 CITY AUTHORITY OVER SIDEWALKS; SIDEWALK DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks shall at all times be under the direction of the Common
Council or the City Engineer.
   (B)   The space between the curb and the property line on each side of the
paved street on curbed streets shall constitute the sidewalk; upon unpaved
streets, the sidewalk shall be the portion adjoining the property line on each
side, and shall have a width equal to one-fifth the distance between property
lines, but in no case shall the sidewalks be less than four feet in width,
except in alleys of 16 feet or less in width, where the sidewalks shall be two
and one-half feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925)
§ 93.05 PERMANENT SURFACING OF SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks hereafter improved by placing walks with a permanent surfacing
on any public highway or street within the city shall be improved by
constructing the walks with stone flagging or concrete, and in accordance with
the specifications prescribed by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925)
§ 93.06 GRADING OF SIDEWALKS.
   Any grading necessary between the walks as laid and the curb line, or
between the sidewalks and the edge of the sidewalk space as established in §
93.04 of this chapter, shall be done at the time of laying the walks so as to
leave the sidewalk space at the grade described in §
93.07 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925)
§ 93.07 COINCIDENCE WITH CURB LINE.
   Any sidewalk so improved shall coincide with the line described as follows:
   (A)   Beginning at the curb line with the established curb grade as
determined by the City Engineer; then extending to the street line at right
angles to the curb line, with a rise of three-eighths- inch to the foot; and
   (B)   However, at street intersections where the grade of the intersecting
street prevents compliance with the above provisions, the walk shall be laid
under the direction and to the acceptance of the Common Council or the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925)
§ 93.08 REQUIRED INSTALLATION OF PUBLIC SIDEWALKS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   Public sidewalks, of not less than four feet in width and complying with the
City Engineer specification, shall be installed, in the future, in all areas,
zones or districts within the corporate limits of the city whenever a new
structure, off-street parking lot or improvement is erected, installed or
placed or occupancy and use is made thereof, hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) (Ord. G-2-65, passed 3-9-1965)
EXCAVATION OF PUBLIC SURFACES
§ 93.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cut into, make
any opening in the surface of, or tunnel under, any street, sidewalk or public
place in the city for any purpose whatsoever without having secured the proper
permit provided for in §
93.21 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) (Ord. G-15-66, passed 11-7-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to cut into, to make any
opening in the surface of, or to tunnel under any pavement or sidewalk in any
street or public place in the city shall make application to the Board of
Public Works and Safety of the city in writing for a permit to do the work.
   (B)   The application shall contract to replace, pay for the replacement of,
or properly repair any street, sidewalk or pavement to be cut, in accordance
with any conditions and specifications imposed by the Board.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall consider the application
and grant it on such terms as the Board may seem best or refuse it at its
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) (Ord. G-15-66, passed 11-7-1966)
§ 93.22 RECORD OF ALL PERMITS ISSUED.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall keep in its office a record of
all permits issued.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) (Ord. G-15-66, passed 11-7-1966)
DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS
OR OCCUPANTS
§ 93.35 REMOVAL OF SNOW FROM SIDEWALKS.
   Every occupant or owner of a house or any other buildings, the owner,
proprietor lessee, persons entitled to the possession of any vacant lot or any
person in charge of any church, jail, public hall or other building in the city
shall, during the winter season and during the time when show shall continue on
the ground, by 10:00 a.m. each and every morning clean the sidewalks in front
of the house or other buildings and in front of lots, and shall keep them free
from ice and snow during the day.
(Prior Code, § 94.30) (Ord. 36, passed 2-2-1916) Penalty, see §
93.99
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT FEES
§ 93.40 ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   There shall be an application fee submitted with each application for
the permits and in the amounts listed below. For any work completed without a
required permit, or if a citation is issued, the fees listed below shall be
doubled.
      (1)   Driveway permits.
Residential
   New                           $50
   Reconstruction                $50
Commercial (including subdivision entrances)
   With taper lanes              $500
   Without taper lanes           $250
   Temporary construction entranc$150
Sidewalks
   New                           $40
   Reconstruction                $40
 
      (2)   Right-of-way permits.
 
Working in the right-of-way
   Cut (every 200')         $100
   Bore (including hand hole$100
 
      (3)   Special hauling permits.
 
Over sized load  $65
Over weight load $65
 
      (4)   Special event permits.   
 
Processing permit                                                        $25
Police officers (per officer for each hour or fraction thereof #G-12-07) $37.50
Utility workers (per employee for each hour or fraction thereof #G-12-   $35.93
07)
 
   (B)   Charges belong to municipality. All charges and amounts collected
pursuant to this section shall be deposited and credited to the General Fund of
the municipality or to the general fund of the Department as may be applicable,
in the same manner as other miscellaneous revenues of the municipality.
(Ord. G-22-04, passed 3-15-2022)
GAMES OR SPORTS IN PUBLIC STREETS
§ 93.50 ENGAGING IN GAMES OR SPORTS IN PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Any portable or non-portable equipment used for
sports, exercise or recreation, including, but not limited to, the following:
basketball hoops; hockey nets; volleyball nets; trampolines; slides; and
swings. RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT shall not mean personal transportation
equipment.
      STREET. Any public street, cul-de-sac, alley or sidewalk, including the
entire width of the right-of-way in which they are located.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or person in possession of
recreational equipment, to allow or suffer the same to be located in a street
within the city.
   (C)   No recreational equipment shall be placed in any street.
   (D)   Any recreational equipment located in a public street constitutes a
public nuisance. Any law enforcement or Code Enforcement Officer may abate the
nuisance caused from the presence of the recreational equipment in the street
by causing the same to be impounded by the city, or by a private impound
facility under contract with the city.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to engage in
any games, sports or contests in any street within the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.60) (Ord. G-09-13, passed 9-22-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
93.01 through
93.07 of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $100 for each
offense or violation, and a further sum of $50 for each day the violation is
continued may be imposed in the court’s discretion.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with, or
violating any of the provisions of §§
93.20 through
93.22 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding
$300.
      (3)   Any person violating any provisions of §
93.35 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $1, nor
more than $25.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
93.50 of this chapter shall, upon conviction or judgment, be subject to a fine
of not less than $50, and no more than $500, for each violation, which fine
shall be owing in addition to such reasonable removal, storage and disposal
charges as may be incurred by the city, or its contractor, in abating the
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
(Ord. 36, passed 2-2-1916; Ord. 507, passed 6-3-1925; Ord. G-15-66, passed 11-
7-1966; Ord. G-09-13, passed 9-22-2009)
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
   
94.01   Authority
   
94.02   Application
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Tree Commission; term; compensation
   
94.05   Review of Board of Public Works or Park Board
   
94.06   Tree species
   
94.07   Spacing
   
94.08   Distances from curbs and sidewalks
   
94.09   Tree topping
   
94.10   Attaching objects to trees
   
94.11   Distances from street corners and fire hydrants
   
94.12   Pruning
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
§ 94.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the power to adopt and
enforce regulations for the trimming, removal, planting and protection of all
trees, shrubs, vines, flowers, hedges and plants within the right-of-way of any
street or alley or within any park, or 14 feet from the street right-of-way
line on any property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. G-31-80, passed 10-14-1980)
§ 94.02 APPLICATION.
   This chapter applies to all trees located on real property owned by the city
or a department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access
to as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.04 TREE COMMISSION; TERM; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created and established the city’s Tree
Commission for the city, which shall consist of five members, three shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Common Council, one to be
appointed by the Park and Recreation Board and one to be appointed by the
Superintendent of the city’s Utilities Department.
(Prior Code, § 95.05)
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the three persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years; except that, the term of one of the members
appointed to the first Commission shall be for only one year and the term of
one member of the first Commission shall be for two years. The term of the
member appointed by the Park and Recreation Board and by the city’s Utilities
Department shall be for three years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 95.06)
   (C)   Compensation of Commission. Members of the Commission shall serve
without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 95.07)
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Commission to study, investigate, counsel and develop and update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal and disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets
and in other public areas within the city. This plan will be presented annually
to the Board of Public Works and the city’s Department of Parks and Recreation
Board and, upon their acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official
comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The Commission, when requested by
the Board of Public Works or the Park Board, shall consider, investigate, make
findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming
within the scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 95.08)
   (E)   Operation. The Commission shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 95.09)
(Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.05 REVIEW BY BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS OR PARK BOARD.
   The Board of Public Works and Park Board shall each have the right to review
the conduct, acts and decisions of the city’s Tree Commission as the same may
relate to property within the separate jurisdiction of each board. Any person
may appeal any ruling or recommendation of the city’s Tree Commission to the
Board of Public Works or the Park Board who may hear the matter and make the
final decision.
(Prior Code, § 95.10) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.06 TREE SPECIES.
   The Commission shall develop a list of recommended trees which shall
constitute the official tree species for the city. No species, other than those
included in this list, may be planted as street trees without the written
permission of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 95.11) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.07 SPACING.
   Spacing of trees shall be made with consideration given to current ANSI
standards for tree care, transplanting and pruning as well as community
preferences, as may be determined by the Commission. Spacing for different
areas of the city may vary.
(Prior Code, § 95.12) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.08 DISTANCES FROM CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   For aesthetic purposes, trees planted after enactment of this chapter may
not be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following:
   (A)   Small trees (25 feet or shorter at full maturity): two feet from a
curb or sidewalk;
   (B)   Medium trees (25 feet to 40 feet at full maturity): three feet from a
curb or sidewalk; and
   (C)   Large trees (40 feet or taller at full maturity): four feet from a
curb or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 95.13) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.09 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any city tree. TOPPING is defined as the cutting back of the
leading shoots of major limbs which form a natural canopy of the tree so as to
disfigure the tree’s crown. The city departments shall follow ANSI standard and
pruning guidelines when removing tree limbs from utilities areas, such as
utility lines. Trees damaged by storms or other causes are exempted from this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.14) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 ATTACHING OBJECTS TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any guy wire, cable or any other item to any
tree or to use the same in connection with any banner, sign or similar item for
any purpose whatsoever. It shall be unlawful to cut or trim any trees for the
purpose of erecting any telephone, telegraph or power poles and wires without
first obtaining the written approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety
and receiving a written permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 95.15) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 DISTANCES FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   For aesthetic purposes, no street trees planted after enactment of this
chapter shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner measured from
the point of the nearest intersection, curbs or curb lines or within ten feet
of any fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 95.16) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 PRUNING.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within its property and the right-of-way lines of all
streets, alleys, avenues and lanes as may be necessary to preserve or enhance
the symmetry and beauty of such grounds.
(Prior Code, § 95.17) (Ord. G-11-01, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 95.99)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
Section
   
95.01   State and city laws to be in effect
   
95.02   Interference with recreational purposes prohibited
   
95.03   Usage of intoxicants or drugs
   
95.04   Damage to park property
   
95.05   Littering
   
95.06   Pre-school children
   
95.07   Open fires prohibited; exception
   
95.08   Possessing, handling or transmitting weapons
   
95.09   Certain activities prohibited
   
95.10   Motor vehicles
   
95.11   Sale of food or merchandise
   
95.12   Park hours
   
95.13   Pavilion permits
   
95.14   Authority of park employees
   
95.15   Authority of Superintendent of the Board of Parks and Recreation
   
95.16   Parks under protection of city police
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 STATE AND CITY LAWS TO BE IN EFFECT.
   No person while on park grounds or engaged in a park sponsored function
shall engage in conduct which is prohibited by state law or by city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 INTERFERENCE WITH RECREATIONAL PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use of violence, force, noise, coercion, threat, intimidation,
fear, passive resistance or other comparable conduct constituting an
interference with recreation purposes, or urging other persons to engage in
such conduct, while on park grounds, is prohibited.
   (B)   Intentionally causing or attempting to cause physical injury, or
intentionally behaving in a way that could reasonably cause physical injury to
any other person while on park grounds, or off park grounds at a sponsored
recreational function, is prohibited. Self- defense, or reasonable action
undertaken on the reasonable belief that it was necessary to protect some other
person, shall not, however, constitute a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 USAGE OF INTOXICANTS OR DRUGS.
   (A)   Possessing, using, transmitting or being under the influence of any
illegal drug, alcoholic beverage or intoxicant of any kind while on park
grounds, or off park grounds at a sponsored recreational function, is
prohibited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, beer and wine may be served if a
special use permit is first obtained from the New Haven-Adams Township Parks
and Recreation Department with the following perquisites and conditions:
      (1)   Consumption and serving of beer and wine at an event must be
approved by the Superintendent of Parks;
      (2)   Only events occurring at the New Haven Community Center Building
and grounds (7500 S.R. 930, New Haven, Indiana) and Schnelker Park are eligible
for a special use permit to allow the service of beer and wine;
      (3)   A special use permit must be purchased from the Park Office. The
cost of the permit shall be set by the Park Department from time to time as
part of their policies;
      (4)   Event organizers must either:
         (a)   Obtain a license from the state’s Alcohol and Tobacco Commission
authorizing designated individuals who are part of the event to dispense and
serve beer and wine; or
         (b)   Hire a caterer who has a license issued by the state’s Alcohol
and Tobacco Commission authorizing designated individuals employed by the
caterer to dispense and serve beer and wine.
      (5)   The beer and wine vendor (either the licensed caterer or the
licensed event organizer) must provide the Park Department with a certificate
of insurance specifying that the event is covered by the vendor’s liquor
liability policy with coverage of no less than $1,000,000, bodily injury of
$1,000,000 and property damage of $50,000;
      (6)   Permits from the state’s Alcohol and Tobacco Commission and the
Park Department must be clearly posted at the event site;
      (7)   Beer and wine may only be served by licensed bartenders and servers
and only beer and wine served by licensed bartenders and servers may be
consumed;
      (8)   Beer and wine must be served in plastic or paper containers only
for any outdoors serving areas;
      (9)   Uniformed security shall be present at the event and the cost for
the security shall be paid by the event organizers. Security will be scheduled
by the Park Department staff. Event organizers shall pay the security providers
no later than the conclusion of the event;
      (10)   Beer and wine must be contained within a designated area. For any
outdoor event, such area shall be clearly marked by signs and ropes or chains
or barricades or fencing. At least two weeks prior to the event, event
organizers shall submit to the Park Superintendent a written plan defining the
area in which the beer and wine will be contained and explaining what methods
of containment shall be used. The special use permit shall be ineffectual until
the written plan is also approved; and
      (11)   The Park Superintendent has the right to approve or deny any
request for beer and wine service at an event for any reason, and no permit for
Schnelker Park will be issued if there exists a scheduled event at the
elementary school adjacent to Schnelker Park.
   (B)   Use of a drug authorized by a medical prescription from a registered
physician shall not be a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974; Ord. G-86-7, passed 5-13-
1986; Ord. G-16-03, passed 4-12-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY.
   Causing or attempting to cause damage to park property, or stealing or
attempting to steal park property, is prohibited. All plants, flowers, shrubs,
trees, buildings, structures and statuary are protected as park property.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   Littering on park grounds is prohibited.
   (B)   Trash and rubbish shall be deposited only in trash containers. Grounds
must be cleaned and left in good condition after each use.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 PRE-SCHOOL CHILDREN.
   Pre-school children must be accompanied at all times by an adult or by an
older, responsible child.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   Open fires are prohibited, except in fireplaces or in charcoal grills and
ovens. Grills and ovens shall not be used inside pavilions or buildings or
under roofs.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 POSSESSING, HANDLING OR TRANSMITTING WEAPONS.
   Knowingly possessing, handling or transmitting any object that can
reasonably be considered a weapon on park grounds, or off park grounds, at a
sponsored function, is prohibited. Included in the definition of a weapon is
any kind of air gun, B.B. gun or pellet gun.
(Prior Code, § 96.08) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   Hunting, shooting, trapping, swimming, boating or fishing is prohibited on
park grounds, except in those areas which may be designated by the Board of
Parks and Recreation and which are specifically posted for such use.
(Prior Code, § 96.09) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The speed limit for motor vehicles is 15 mph.
   (B)   Vehicles may be driven only on established roadways.
   (C)   Parking is permitted on road berms and parking lots, not on grass.
   (D)   All traffic signs and restricted zones shall be observed.
   (E)   The use of snowmobiles or non-licensed motor vehicles is prohibited,
except in those areas which may be designated by the Board of Parks and
Recreation and which are specifically posted for such use.
(Prior Code, § 96.10) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 SALE OF FOOD OR MERCHANDISE.
   The sale of food or merchandise is prohibited, unless the vendor secures the
permission of the Parks and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 96.11) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 PARK HOURS.
   (A)    Parks are open to the public from 6:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m.
   (B)   Use of park facilities is prohibited between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
until 6:00 a.m., except for supervised activities which have been approved by
the Park Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 96.12) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974; Ord. G-18-10, passed 6-
12-2018)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 PAVILION PERMITS.
   (A)   The temporary exclusive use of a pavilion for recreational purposes
may be granted to any person or organization upon a first-come, first-serve
basis.
   (B)   The Park Superintendent shall grant the permit in writing on
reasonable conditions to ensure the careful use of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 96.13) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 AUTHORITY OF PARK EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Any park employee who is designated as being in charge of a park
facility or function, shall have the right to take any action or give any order
which is reasonably necessary to carry out, or to prevent an interference with,
recreational pursuits of which he or she is then in charge.
   (B)   The park employee who is designated as being in charge of a park
facility or function shall have the authority to order any person to remove
himself or herself from park grounds for a period not to exceed 48 hours for
the violation of any of the rules of this chapter, any posted written
regulation of the Superintendent, or any reasonable order of a park employee.
(Prior Code, § 96.14) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974)
§ 95.15 AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT OF THE BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may, from time to time, make reasonable written
regulations providing for the orderly use of park facilities and for the safety
of the public. These regulations shall be effective upon being publicly posted,
so long as they are not in conflict with regulations adopted by the Board of
Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   The Superintendent, after giving notice, and upon substantial cause,
shall have authority to exclude any person from park grounds for a period not
to exceed two months.
(Prior Code, § 96.15) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974)
§ 95.16 PARKS UNDER PROTECTION OF CITY POLICE.
   (A)   Any police officer of the city’s Police Department or of the county’s
Police Department is authorized to enforce the law and to provide police
protection, including the making of arrests, on park grounds.
   (B)   The Park Superintendent or any park employee in charge of a park
facility or function is authorized to request assistance from state, city or
county police officers for the providing of police protection for park property
and activities.
   (C)   Any police officer having jurisdiction shall be authorized to enforce
the order of any park employee pursuant to §
95.14 of this chapter, upon request of the park employee.
(Prior Code, § 96.16) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974; Ord. G-86-7, passed 5-13-
1986)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
95.03 of this chapter shall be fined the sum of $25 for the first offense
hereof. A sum not to exceed $100 shall be imposed for each additional offense
hereof. The enforcement of §
95.03 of this chapter shall be by the city’s Police Department and the city’s
Board of Public Health by its Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. G-8-74, passed 6-12-1974; Ord. G-86-7, passed 5-13-
1986)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC PLACES; GATHERINGS, SHOWS AND THE LIKE
Section
City Festival Periods
   
96.01   Designation of “city festival period”
   
96.02   Authority to grant permits and licenses
   
96.03   Fees for permits and licenses
Alcohol-Free Zones
   
96.15   Alcohol-free zone established
   
96.16   Effective period
   
96.17   Lawful establishments not affected
   
96.18   “Alcohol-free zone” defined
   
96.19   Procedure upon citation for violation
Non-City Festival Periods
   
96.30   Non “city festival period” fees
   
96.31   Exemptions
   
96.32   Contract security not prohibited
Designated Outdoor Refreshment Areas
   
96.45   Recitals
   
96.46   The Act
   
96.47   Downtown North DORA
   
96.48   Downtown South DORA
   
96.49   Zoning
   
96.50   Signage
   
96.51   Designated permittees
   
96.52   Temporary vendor
   
96.53   Drink limitations
   
96.54   Right of business owner to refuse entry
   
96.55   Consumption of drink purchased outside refreshment area
   
96.56   Outdoor dining
   
96.57   Dates and hours of operation
   
96.58   City control of right-of-way
   
96.59   Additional operating rules and regulations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
CITY FESTIVAL PERIODS
§ 96.01 DESIGNATION OF “CITY FESTIVAL PERIOD”.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized in its sole discretion to
designate any time period as “city festival period” and is empowered to take
any and all action and to adopt any and all rules and regulations deemed
necessary to control and coordinate all activities during a “city festival
period”.
(Prior Code, § 98.01) (Ord. G-83-27, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. G-85-18, passed 8-
13-1985)
§ 96.02 AUTHORITY TO GRANT PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have full power and authority to
approve and authorize the granting of all permits and licenses to any person,
firm or corporation that may wish to sponsor a public gathering, conduct a
show, demonstration, fair, carnival, street fair, sporting event, exhibition or
exhibit, conduct amusement facilities, sell food or merchandise or any other
matter connected with a “city festival period”.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) (Ord. G-83-27, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. G-85-18, passed 8-
13-1985)
§ 96.03 FEES FOR PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have full power and authority to
determine the fee for any license or permit to be charged to any person, firm
or corporation that may file a written request to sponsor a public gathering,
conduct a show, demonstration, fair, carnival, street fair, sporting event,
exhibition, exhibit, conduct amusement facilities, sell food or merchandise or
any other matter connected with activities to be conducted during a “city
festival period”. However, all fees for licenses and permits must be uniform
and reasonable for similar and like activities, and are to include a sufficient
amount to reimburse the city for any additional costs and expenses it may incur
by reason of the furnishing of fire protection, police protection, traffic
control, crowd control, utility services and coordinating the same. All
licenses and permits shall be issued by the Board of Public Works and Safety,
and any fees collected therefor shall be paid to the city.
(Prior Code, § 98.03) (Ord. G-83-27, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. G-85-18, passed 8-
13-1985)
ALCOHOL-FREE ZONES
§ 96.15 ALCOHOL-FREE ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open container of alcohol
beverage, to include beer, wine and liquor within the confines of the
designated area referred to as an “alcohol-free zone” during the event commonly
referred to as “New Haven City Festival Period”.
(Prior Code, § 98.10) (Ord. G-92-3, passed 5-13-1992) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The dates of the event referred to as “New Haven City Festival Period” are
established and approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city,
pursuant to §
96.01 of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall be in full force
and effect only during those dates designated on a yearly basis.
(Prior Code, § 98.11) (Ord. G-92-3, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 96.17 LAWFUL ESTABLISHMENTS NOT AFFECTED.
   It is not the intent of this chapter to restrict in any fashion the
operation of a legally permitted establishment, within the legal confines of
said establishment.
(Prior Code, § 98.12) (Ord. G-92-3, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 96.18 “ALCOHOL-FREE ZONE” DEFINED.
   (A)   Broadway: to include vehicular right-of-way and sidewalks from the
south right-of-way of Bell Avenue south, to the south right-of-way at Park
Avenue;
   (B)   Main Street: to include vehicular right-of- way and sidewalks from the
west right-of-way at Ann Street, west to the west property line of the
municipal parking lot to the west of and in the rear of the 400 block of
Broadway;
   (C)   Summit Street: to include vehicular right-of- way and sidewalks from
the east right-of-way of the alley immediately to the east of the 500 block
Broadway, west to the west right-of-way at Broadway;
   (D)   Middle Street: to include vehicular right-of- way and sidewalks from
the east right-of-way of the alley immediately east of the 500 block of
Broadway, west, to the west right-of-way at Broadway;
   (E)   Park Avenue: to include vehicular right-of- way and sidewalks from the
east right-of-way of the intersection at Williams Street west, to the west
right- of-way at the intersection with Edwards Street;
   (F)   Williams Street: to include vehicular right- of-way and sidewalks,
encompassing the entire length of the street;
   (G)   Edwards Street: to include vehicular right- of-way and sidewalks,
encompassing the entire length of the street;
   (H)   Prospect Avenue: to include vehicular right- of-way and sidewalks,
encompassing the entire length of the street; and
   (I)   Municipal parking lot: also included shall be the municipal parking
lot to the west of and in the rear of the 400 block of Broadway, immediately
north of the 800 block of Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 98.13) (Ord. G-92-3, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 96.19 PROCEDURE UPON CITATION FOR VIOLATION.
   Any police officer, upon observing a violation of this chapter, shall record
the name, address and full identification of the alleged violator, and shall
issue to him or her in writing, on the form designated by the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer, a notice to answer to the charge against him or her at a place and
at a time at least five days thereafter, to be specified in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 98.14) (Ord. G-92-3, passed 5-13-1992)
NON-CITY FESTIVAL PERIODS
§ 96.30 NON “CITY FESTIVAL PERIOD” FEES.
   (A)   Any person or organization sponsoring a special event other than a
“city festival period”, as described in §
96.01 of this chapter, shall be required to reimburse the city for public
safety related personnel expenses according to the following schedule:
      (1)   $37.50 per police offer for each hour or fraction thereof; and
      (2)   $35.93 per civilian employee for each hour or fraction thereof.
   (B)   The level of staffing provided by the city shall be within the sole
discretion of the Police Department as it determines appropriate to reasonably
meet anticipated public safety or traffic control needs of the special event
and of the city generally.
(Prior Code, § 98.20) (Ord. G-12-07, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 96.31 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
96.30 of this chapter shall not apply to special events which are sponsored by
or are held for the benefit of:
   (A)   The city or a department thereof; or
   (B)   A public or private school located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 98.21) (Ord. G-12-07, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 96.32 CONTRACT SECURITY NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in §
96.30 of this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any person or organization
from separately contracting for special event security. In such case, the
charges described in §
96.30 of this chapter shall be imposed only to the extent that such contracted
security is not adequate to meet public safety or traffic control needs.
(Prior Code, § 98.22) (Ord. G-12-07, passed 3-27-2012)
DESIGNATED OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREAS
§ 96.45 RECITALS.
   (A)   Whereas, I.C. 7.1-3-31 et. seq., (the “Act”) authorizes the
establishment of a Designated Outdoor Refreshment Area (“DORA”);
   (B)   Whereas, the City of New Haven, Indiana (“City”), supports the
revitalization and economic re-development of its downtown corridor, desires to
maintain an economically vibrant downtown center for its residents and
visitors, and recognizes that a sustainable downtown corridor contributes to
the overall economic health of the city;
   (C)   Whereas, the city wishes to maintain a livable, walkable, and vibrant
downtown with opportunities to work, shop, live, and recreate;
   (D)   Whereas, in accordance with the Act, the establishment of a DORA
generally allows a person to:
      (1)   Exit the licensed premises of a designated permittee or vendor with
not more than two open containers of an alcoholic beverage at a time, and
      (2)   Consume the alcoholic beverage within the refreshment area; and
   (E)   Whereas, in accordance with the Act, the Common Council for the City
of New Haven, Indiana (“Common Council”), believes it is in the best interests
of the city to create two DORAs in the city's downtown corridor, as further
depicted on Exhibit A (the “Downtown North DORA”) and Exhibit B (the “Downtown
South DORA”), attached to Ordinance G-24-12 and incorporated herein by
reference (the Downtown North DORA and the Downtown South DORA, collectively,
the “Downtown DORAs”);
   Now therefore this chapter is ordained by the Common Council for the City of
New Haven.
Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.46 THE ACT.
   All definitions found in I.C. 7.1-3-31 et. seq., shall apply to this chapter
and are hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.47 DOWNTOWN NORTH DORA.
   The Common Council hereby adopts the Downtown North DORA, as further
depicted on Exhibit A which is attached to Ordinance G-24-12 and incorporated
herein by reference. The boundaries of the Downtown North DORA shall be as
follows:
   Beginning at a point in the northwest corner of the intersection of Broadway
Street and Powers Street; then moving east along Powers Street to the
intersection of Powers Street and Ann Street; then moving south along Ann
Street to the intersection of Ann Street and Middle Street; then moving west
along Middle Steet to the intersection of Middle Street and Broadway Street;
and then moving north along Broadway Street to the beginning point in the
northwest corner of the intersection of Broadway Street and Powers Street.
And
   Beginning at a point in the southwest corner of the intersection of Broadway
Street and Middle Street; then moving south along Broadway Street (including
the properties immediately adjacent to Broadway Street on both the east and
west side of the street) to a point north of the railroad crossing. The
Downtown North DORA does not cross the railroad crossing.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.48 DOWNTOWN SOUTH DORA.
   The Common Council hereby adopts the Downtown South DORA, as further
depicted on Exhibit B which is attached to Ordinance G-24-12 and incorporated
herein by reference. The boundaries of the Downtown South DORA shall be as
follows:
   Beginning at a point north of the intersection of Broadway Street and
Hartzell Street and south of the railroad crossing; then moving south along
Broadway Street (including the properties immediately adjacent to Broadway
Street on both the east and west side of the street) to the intersection of
Broadway Street and Park Avenue (including the properties immediately adjacent
to Park Avenue on the south side of the road). The Downtown South DORA shall
not cross the railroad crossing.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.49 ZONING.
   The Common Council hereby finds that the Downtown DORAs are consistent with
the city's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.50 SIGNAGE.
   The Common Council hereby approves and adopts the sign package as further
described and depicted on Exhibit C which is attached to Ordinance G-24-12 and
incorporated herein by reference (the “Sign Package”). The Common Council
hereby designates the City of New Haven Board of Public Works and Safety with
full authority to make future amendments to the sign package in order to
increase the number of signs or change the type of signage used within the
Downtown DORAs.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.51 DESIGNATED PERMITTEES.
   (A)   The following retail permittees have submitted a completed application
to the city to participate in the Downtown DORAs, and the city hereby finds
that each of them is an appropriate designated permittee and requests the
Indiana Alcohol & Tobacco Commission (the “Commission”) to issue each a
“refreshment area designation”:
      (1)   Carl's Tavern - 433 Broadway Street, New Haven, IN.
      (2)   Trion Tavern - 503 Broadway Street, New Haven, IN.
      (3)   Rack & Helens Bar & Grill - 525 Broadway Street, New Haven, IN.
      (4)   3 Pals Pub - 615 Broadway Street, New Haven, IN.
      (5)   Navy Club of New Haven Ship #245 - 412 Broadway Street, New Haven,
IN.
   (B)   In accordance with the Act, the Commission may approve the Downtown
DORAs and issue refreshment area designations to retailer permittees without
publication of notice or investigation before a local board. The Commission may
not charge a fee for designating a retailer permittee.
   (C)   Any additional licensed premises, located within the Downtown DORAs,
not specifically listed in this §
96.51 as a designated permittee who desires to be designated as a “designated
permittee” and granted a “refreshment area designation” shall submit a
designated permittee application to the city for approval and recommendation by
the Common Council by resolution.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.52 TEMPORARY VENDOR.
   (A)   A person who is not a designated permittee for the area must obtain a
permit as further described by I.C. 7.1-3-31-5 and a temporary vendor
designation to participate in an event or festival held within the Downtown
DORAs. In accordance with the Act, the Commission may only charge a fee for the
temporary beer or wine permit, and the Commission may issue the permit and
designation without publication of notice or investigation before a local
board.
   (B)   The vendor shall submit a special event permit application and State
Designated Outdoor Refreshment Area Form, on each such occasion. The City of
New Haven Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the authority to decide
if said vendor is appropriate for the Downtown DORAs and mayapprove said vendor
in accordance with its procedures established for the same. Upon approval, a
“Vendor” may locate at any or all of the available “Vendor Locations” within
the Downtown DORAs as further depicted on Exhibit A and Exhibit B attached to
Ordinance G-24-12.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.53 DRINK LIMITATIONS.
   In accordance with the Act, a designated permittee or vendor within the
Downtown DORAs may allow a person to exit the designated permittee's or
vendor's licensed premises with not more than two open containers of an
alcoholic beverage at a time.The contents of an open container may not exceed
the following:
   (A)   Beer or flavored malt beverage of not more than 16 ounces;
   (B)   Wine, cider, or hard seltzer of not more than 12 ounces;
   (C)   A mixed drink of not more than ten ounces containing not more than two
ounces of liquor.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.54 RIGHT OF BUSINESS OWNER TO REFUSE ENTRY.
   In accordance with the Act, a person may consume an alcoholic beverage
purchased from a designated permittee or vendor anywhere within the Downtown
DORAs, subject to the right of any retailer permittee or business within the
Downtown DORAs to refuse to allow individuals to enter the licensed premises or
business with an alcoholic beverage. Nothing in this chapter prohibits a
business, landlord, or other establishment from prohibiting open containers of
alcoholic beverages to enter their premises. Only those entities with signage
specifying their participation in the Downtown DORAs (which signage will be
prominently placed on the storefront or entry door) will allow a person to
enter their premises with and consume an alcoholic beverage purchased within
the Downtown DORAs.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.55 CONSUMPTION OF DRINK PURCHASED OUTSIDE REFRESHMENT AREA.
   A person may not consume an alcoholic beverage within the Downtown DORAs
that was purchased outside of the refreshment area.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.56 OUTDOOR DINING.
   In accordance with the Act, if a designated permittee includes outdoor
dining:
   (A)   The designated permittee may serve alcoholic beverages in open
containers during the hours of operation and in the areas authorized by the
retailer permit;
   (B)   Glass containers may be allowed in the outdoor dining areas but may
not be removed from those areas into the refreshment area; and
   (C)   No fencing or other enclosure of the outdoor dining area is required.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.57 DATES AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The dates and hours of operation for each of the Downtown DORAs shall
be in effect each day from:
      (1)   For June 1 through July 31, 11:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m., prevailing
local time, and
      (2)   For August 1 through May 31, 6:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   (B)   Notwithstanding these standard hours, the City of New Haven Board of
Public Works and Safety is authorized to adopt different hours of operation
that deviate from these standard hours for special events taking place in
either of the Downtown DORAs. For each special event, the Board of Public Works
and Safety must specifically identify to which date or dates the different
hours of operation apply, and the Board of Public Works and Safety must publish
notice of the different hours of operation for special events in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.58 CITY CONTROL OF RIGHT-OF- WAY.
   The City of New Haven maintains full authority and control over the
sidewalks and common area and no one may prohibit or limit open containers in
accordance with the Act within the Downtown DORAs in those spaces except for
the City of New Haven Board of Public Works and Safety and the Common Council.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.59 ADDITIONAL OPERATING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
    In addition to the requirements set forth in the Act and this chapter, the
following additional regulations apply to each of the Downtown DORAs:
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages consumed in the Downtown DORAs must be contained
in a plastic cup provided by the designated permittee or vendor, or as
specifically designated by the city.
   (B)   Glass containers may only be allowed in a designated permittee's
outdoor dining area (as further described in § 96.56, and may not be removed
into the Downtown DORAs.
   (C)   Signage, as further depicted on Exhibit C, attached to Ordinance G-24-
12 and incorporated herein by reference, shall be posted at each exit of a
designated permittee and on the licensed premises of a vendor.
   (D)   Only those entities with signage specifying their participation in the
Downtown DORAs (which signage will be prominently placed on the storefront or
entry door) will permit a person to enter their premises with an alcoholic
beverage purchased within the Downtown DORAs.
(Ord. G-24-12, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
96.15 through
96.19 of this chapter shall be fined a sum not exceeding $50.
(Prior Code, § 98.15) (Ord. G-92-3, passed 5-13-1992)
CHAPTER 97: MODEL FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE
Section
   
97.01   Adoption by reference; model flood damage prevention ordinance
   
97.02   Maintained on file
§ 97.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE; MODEL FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Common Council for the city has adopted the Indiana State Model
Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance (the “Model Floodplain Ordinance”).
   (B)   The Model Floodplain Ordinance listed in division (A) above is hereby
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as if set forth herein, and as
amended from time to time.
(Ord. G-23-27, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 97.02 MAINTAINED ON FILE.
   The complete latest edition of the Model Floodplain Ordinance shall be
maintained on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and be made available
for public inspection during office hours.
(Ord. G-23-27, passed 12-5-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
112.   COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES AND JUNKYARDS
      
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
114.   TAXICABS
      
115.   TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
      
116.   INSPECTION FEES
      
117.   MASSAGE THERAPIST ESTABLISHMENTS
      
118.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
119.   OUTDOOR DINING AREAS
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
Section
   
110.01   Attaching to trees or structures in streets
   
110.02   Advertisements prohibited in certain places
   
110.03   Hanging street banners or flags
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 ATTACHING TO TREES OR STRUCTURES IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to paint, nail, fasten or locate any sign, display or
notice of any kind whatsoever, or cause the same to be done on any curbstone,
flagstone, any portion or part of any sidewalk or street, any tree, lamppost,
telephone or telegraph pole, hydrant, bridge or any other structure or place
within the limits of the public ways or grounds within the city limits, except
road, street or other governmental signs or legal notices.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. G-28-67, passed 12-26-1967) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 ADVERTISEMENTS PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, post or display any advertising matter upon
any building, structure, fence or other property within the city limits without
the written consent of the owner, lessee or agent thereof.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. G-28-67, passed 12-26-1967) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 HANGING STREET BANNERS OR FLAGS.
   (A)   A STREET BANNER is a sign made of any flexible material that is
suspended, hung or attached over or across any public walk, street or place.
Street banners may be permitted in places and for periods of time authorized by
the Board of Public Works and Safety, but only after written request for
permission to display the street banner has been presented to the Board. In no
case shall a street banner be hung over telephone or telegraph wires or high-
tension wires.
   (B)   United States’ flags and banners up to 12 square feet may be displayed
from staffs, walks or buildings on holidays or days of public celebration
without permit.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. G-28-67, passed 12-26-1967) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be fined in any sum not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. G-28-67, passed 12-26-1967)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Mechanical amusement devices
   
111.03   Application for annual license
   
111.04   License fees
   
111.05   Issuance and term of license
   
111.06   License to be displayed in open view
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall keep within the city any public room, place or
establishment commonly known as a penny arcade, pool room, billiard room, pool
hall, game room, shooting gallery or similar place of entertainment unless an
actual license has been obtained for each place.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any establishment selling alcoholic
beverages and duly licensed by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. G-9-76, passed 5-11-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, own, possess or operate
for public use for gain within the city any pool table, bagatelle table,
billiard table, bumper pool table, pinball machine or any other similar device
or machine operated by deposit of a coin or substitute therefor or otherwise
directly or indirectly by the payment of any consideration by which balls,
discs or other similar items are propelled upon a table, unless an annual
license has been obtained for each device or machine.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, own, possess or operate
for public use for gain within the city any machine or device which is operated
for entertainment or amusement by deposit of a coin or substitute therefor, but
not including juke boxes or other machines which produce only music unless an
annual license hereinafter provided has been obtained for each such device or
machine.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. G-9-76, passed 5-11-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR ANNUAL LICENSE.
   Any person desiring any of the licenses required by §§
111.01 and
111.02 of this chapter shall make written application therefor to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city; the application shall contain the name of the applicant,
location of the proposed machine, device, room, place or establishment and the
nature of the business proposed to be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. G-9-76, passed 5-11-1976)
§ 111.04 LICENSE FEES.
   Upon application for a license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall require payment of
a license fee in the following amounts:
   (A)   For each machine or device referred to in §
111.02 of this chapter: $50; and
   (B)   For each room, hall, gallery or place of business referred to in §
111.01 of this chapter: $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. G-9-76, passed 5-11-1976)
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE AND TERM OF LICENSE.
   Upon application and payment as provided in §§
111.03 and
111.04 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to the
applicant. The license shall expire one year after its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. G-9-76, passed 5-11-1976)
§ 111.06 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED IN OPEN VIEW.
   Each license issued shall be displayed in open view on the machine or device
or in the room, hall or place of business. Upon relocation of any machine,
device, room, hall or place of business from the location stated on the
application, the license shall automatically expire.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. G-9-76, passed 5-11-1976)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any terms or conditions of this
chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. G-9-76, passed 5-11-1976)
CHAPTER 112: COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES AND JUNKYARDS
Section
Commercial Enterprises
   
112.01   Video service franchise fee
Junkyards
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Record of business to be kept
   
112.17   Daily report
   
112.18   Book open to inspection
   
112.19   Purchase from intoxicated person prohibited
   
112.20   Goods to be kept for certain time period
   
112.21   Fence required
   
112.22   Burning of trash, wood or coal
   
112.23   Melting of metals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES
§ 112.01 VIDEO SERVICE FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-34-24, the city reaffirms a fee of 5% of the
gross revenue of each video service franchise holder or other provider
providing video service within the city.
   (B)   Terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as in I.C. 8-1-
34.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. G-12-15, passed 1-8-2013)
JUNKYARDS
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Junk dealer. A JUNK DEALER is any person who engages in the business
of buying waste, used, old or second-hand iron, brass, copper, tin, zinc or any
other metal, or rags, rubber, bottles, paper or any other like material or by-
product of any person, or junk of any kind whatsoever from any other junk
dealer or peddler, or from any person.
   (B)   Licensed. Any person desiring to conduct a junkyard or engage in the
business of junk dealer must be properly licensed, as set out by the state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 RECORD OF BUSINESS TO BE KEPT.
   Every person licensed to conduct, maintain or engage in the business of a
junk dealer shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written in ink at the
time of the purchase, taking or receiving of any goods, articles or things an
accurate account and description in the English language, of the goods,
articles or things purchased, taken or received; the amount of money paid
therefor; the time of purchasing, taking or receiving the goods; and the name,
residence, age, color, height, weight, complexion, style of beard, style of
dress and number of the licensed badge, if any, of the person or persons
selling or delivering the goods, articles or things.
(Prior Code, § 112.12) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 DAILY REPORT.
   (A)   Every person licensed under §
112.15 of this chapter shall make out and deliver to the Chief of Police every
day, before the hour of 12:00 noon, a legible and correct copy from the book
required in §
112.16 of this chapter, giving an accurate account and description of the
following:
      (1)   The goods, articles or things taken or received during the
preceding day;
      (2)   The price paid for the goods;
      (3)   The precise time of purchasing, taking or receiving the goods; and
      (4)   The name, residence, age, color, height, weight, complexion, style
of beard, style of dress and number of the licensed badge, if any, of person or
persons from whom the goods, articles or things were purchased, taken or
received.
   (B)   The copy is to be made on blank white paper, ten inches by 20 inches
in size, on one side only, in the following form:
 
OFFICE OF                                                       
No.                                                   Street
New Haven, Indiana
Report of all property received by me as a junk dealer, my agents, servants and employees, since the making of my last
report, as required by the laws of the city regulating the duties of junk dealers.
 
Signature                                                      
 
(Prior Code, § 112.13) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940)
§ 112.18 BOOK OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   The book provided for in §
112.16 of this chapter shall, at all reasonable times, be open to the
inspection of the Chief of Police or any member of the police force authorized
by the Chief of Police to examine it.
(Prior Code, § 112.14) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940)
§ 112.19 PURCHASE FROM INTOXICATED PERSON PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation licensed under §
112.15 of this chapter to purchase, take or receive any goods, articles or
things from any person when that person is in an intoxicated condition.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 GOODS TO BE KEPT FOR CERTAIN TIME PERIOD.
   All goods or articles purchased or received by any proprietor, manager or
employee of a licensed junkyard or store shall be retained at the licensed
junkyard by the proprietor, manager or employee for a period of not less than
48 hours before disposing of them.
(Prior Code, § 112.16) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 FENCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person licensed under §
112.15 of this chapter who shall operate and maintain a junkyard within the
corporate limits of the city shall completely fence in the enclosure used as a
junkyard with boards of pine wood or similar or better quality, all in good
condition, to the height of eight feet from the ground, so that the junk piled
in the yard shall not be visible at any point from the streets or from the
territory surrounding the junkyard.
   (B)   The junk, when piled in this fenced enclosure, shall not be piled
higher than the fence.
(Prior Code, § 112.17) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 BURNING OF TRASH, WOOD OR COAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person operating or maintaining a junkyard to
burn wood, coal, trash or any inflammable substance in the open.
   (B)   (1)   No fires shall be built or allowed to burn, except in an
incinerator composed of brick or like material cemented together so that no
smoke is emitted from the walls of the incinerator.
      (2)   The incinerator is to be fitted with a smoke stack of sufficient
height to carry the smoke over the roofs of homes in nearby surrounding
territory.
(Prior Code, § 112.18) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 MELTING OF METALS.
   It is unlawful for any person licensed under §
112.15 of this chapter to carry on the business of operating and maintaining a
junkyard within the corporate limits of the city, to fuse or melt metal
objects, destroying their original identity, on the premises used as a
junkyard.
(Prior Code, § 112.19) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
112.15 through
112.23 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $10.
      (2)   Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 560, passed 8-5-1940)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
In General
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Bond required
   
113.03   Refund of bond
   
113.04   Certain salespersons excepted
   
113.05   Individual bond and license required
Vehicle and Equipment Operation and Use
   
113.10   Operation or use of vehicles and equipment on streets and other public
places; hours of operation
   
113.11   Exceptions
   
113.12   Definition
Peddlers
   
113.20   Definition
   
113.21   License required
   
113.22   Application
   
113.23   Fees
   
113.24   License to be carried by licensee
   
113.25   License transferability and revocation
   
113.26   Bond required
 
   
113.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definition. TRANSIENT SALESPERSON is any person who has not been a
resident within the boundaries of the city for 12 consecutive months prior to
the time of application for a license.
   (B)   Licensed. It is unlawful for any transient salesperson to sell, or
take orders for future delivery, at retail or wholesale, any article or item of
any kind, tangible or intangible, including entertainment or entertainment
facilities in, upon or along any street in the city, or to go from door to door
in the city for such purposes unless the salesperson has made application to
and obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer of the city a license authorizing such
activity, and has paid a fee of $25 for each day the license is to be in
effect.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. G-97-20, passed 10-28-1997) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time the license is issued, the salesperson shall deliver to
the Clerk-Treasurer his or her bond in the amount of $500 with acceptable
surety thereon or, in lieu of such surety, cash or a certified check in the
amount of $500 made payable to the city.
   (B)   The bond shall run to the city and its citizens and shall be
conditioned so as to indemnify any citizen of the city for the repayment of any
purchase from or payment made by any citizen to the salesperson, for any faulty
or defective item or for any sales made to the citizen through
misrepresentation or fraud.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. G-97-20, passed 10-28-1997)
§ 113.03 REFUND OF BOND.
   The bond posted by each salesperson shall be retained by the Clerk-Treasurer
and shall be in full force and effect for 90 days after the salesperson has
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer a verified statement containing a complete list
of all persons to whom a sale has been made in the city and the amount of each
sale.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. G-97-20, passed 10-28-1997)
§ 113.04 CERTAIN SALESPERSONS EXCEPTED.
   The provision of this chapter shall not apply to salespersons who sell dairy
products, farm produce or vegetables on the streets or from door to door in the
city; however, any salesperson intending to sell dairy products, farm produce
or vegetables in the city shall obtain a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer by the
payment of a fee of $25 for each day sales are to be made by the person or, in
lieu thereof, by the payment of a fee in the amount of $60 for a seasonal
permit, valid only in the calendar year of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. G-97-20, passed 10-28-1997)
§ 113.05 INDIVIDUAL BOND AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A license shall be obtained and a bond posted by each salesperson; it is not
intended that one license may be obtained and one bond posted by a person, firm
or corporation for the benefit of that person’s, firm’s or corporation’s
employees, agents or representatives.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. G-97-20, passed 10-28-1997)
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT
OPERATION AND USE
§ 113.10 OPERATION OR USE OF VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT ON STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC
PLACES; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No vehicle or other equipment shall be operated or otherwise used on the
public streets, sidewalks, parks or other public ways or places in the city
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. or on Sundays, by any person
licensed under this chapter for the purpose of carrying on the licensed
activity under §§
113.20 through
113.26, so as to protect the ability of residents to be free from sales calls
at their dwellings and elsewhere during certain portions of each day.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   Any person associated with any public or private school or any youth
activities such as, but not limited to, girl scouts, boy scouts, church youth
groups or youth athletic leads, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter. Decisions on whether a person should be provided an exception shall
reside with the Clerk-Treasurer. Any decision by the Clerk-Treasurer may be
appealed to the Board of Works. This exception shall not apply to any person or
organization that is selling subscriptions for magazines or books.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 113.12 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association or joint stock association, church, religious organization,
religious denomination, society, organization or leave and includes any
trustee, receiver, assignee, agent or other similar representative.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021)
PEDDLERS
§ 113.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who travels from door-to-door and to use its public
streets, sidewalks, parks or other public ways or places to:
      (1)   Sell or offer for sale, or display for sale, any goods, wares or
merchandise to any person not a dealer therein; or
      (2)   Take orders for the purchase of goods, wares or merchandise by
samples of those catalogs or subscriptions for magazines and/or books from any
person not a dealer therein; or
      (3)   Sell or offer to sell, or take orders for the sale of services
including, but not limited to, landscaping, painting, snow removal, home
improvement, or any other services to be performed for those who wish to
purchase them.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 113.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate as a peddler within the limits of the city unless
the person has obtained a license in accordance with this chapter.
Additionally, no person shall act as a helper or assistant to a peddler without
a separate license obtained in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 APPLICATION.
   Any person seeking a license as a peddler shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer
with the proper forms furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer signed and completed by
the applicant. The applicant shall specify in writing:
   (A)   Applicant’s name, telephone number, email, date of birth and permanent
home address;
   (B)   The name, address and telephone number under which the applicant will
be doing business;
   (C)   A description of the business that will be conducted, goods or
property to be sold, or purpose of the non-commercial solicitation;
   (D)   The duration of license requested;
   (E)   The place where business will be conducted; and
   (F)   A valid government issued photo ID of the applicant.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.23 FEES.
   A person seeking a peddler’s license under this subchapter shall pay at the
time the application is filed, a non-refundable fee of $25 for each day the
license is to be in effect.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 113.24 LICENSE TO BE CARRIED BY LICENSEE.
   Each license granted under this subchapter to a peddler shall be kept on the
person of the peddler, with them at all times while working in a manner subject
to this chapter.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 113.25 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The term of the license issued in this subchapter shall be for the
duration purchased.
   (B)   All licenses are non-transferable.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 113.26 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time the license is issued, the peddler shall deliver to the
Clerk-Treasurer his or her bond in the amount of $500 with acceptable surety
thereon, or, in lieu of such surety, cash or a certified check in the amount of
$500 made payable to the city.
   (B)   The bond shall run to the city and its citizens, and shall be
conditioned so as to indemnity any citizen of the city for the repayment of any
purchase from or payment made by any citizen to the peddler, for any faulty or
defective item or for any sales made to the citizen through misrepresentation
or fraud.
(Ord. G-21-23, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined a sum not
exceeding $500 and each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 113.99) (Ord. G-97-20, passed 10-28-1997; Ord. G-21-23, passed
10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 114: TAXICABS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Compliance required
   
114.03   Applications for permits
   
114.04   Filing bond and information with application
   
114.05   Issuance of permits; fees
   
114.06   Duration of permits
   
114.07   Renewal permits and licenses
   
114.08   Door requirements for vehicles
   
114.09   Insurance or guaranty bond requirements
   
114.10   Number plates
   
114.11   Permits not transferable
   
114.12   Records to be kept by Common Council
   
114.13   Revocation of permits
   
114.14   Vehicles to be owned and operated in name of permit holder
   
114.15   Identification of vehicles
   
114.16   Drivers employed by permit holders
   
114.17   State chauffeur’s license required
   
114.18   Record of trips
   
114.19   Adequate service and facilities required
   
114.20   Appeal from orders of Common Council
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMIT. A permit for the operation of taxicabs in the city issued upon the
approval and by the orders of the Common Council of the city.
   TAXICABS. A motor vehicle while being used for the performance of a contract
for the transportation of passengers or groups of passengers for hire, to and
from points chosen or designated by the passengers or groups of passengers, and
running over any available route between these points, but not at the time
being operated over or along definite, advertised, announced or substantially
fixed terminals, locations or districts or according to substantially fixed or
announced times or intervals of arrival or departure.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
any taxicab in any public street, court, highway or public place in the city
without meeting the following conditions:
      (1)   Applying for and obtaining a permit therefor from the Common
Council;
      (2)   Filing with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond, undertaking or contract of
liability insurance in some responsible insurance company authorized to do
business in the state, the form of which insurance contract has been approved
by the Insurance Department of the state, and containing the approval thereof;
and
      (3)   Paying the fees prescribed and obtaining license plates, all as is
hereinafter more specifically provided.
   (B)   No permit shall be granted, except as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to use, operate or drive any motor vehicle as a
taxicab in or upon any public street, highway or public place within the
corporate limits of the city shall file an application for a permit with the
Common Council, upon a form which the Common Council shall provide without
charge to all applicants.
   (B)   The application shall contain the name of all applicants, place of
business, residence, if in the city, the length of time of residence, age, if
an individual whether or not previously engaged in the business of transporting
passengers for hire and, if so, the length of previous experience, the number
of taxicabs which the applicant desires to use, operate or drive, and any other
information the Common Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.04 FILING BOND AND INFORMATION WITH APPLICATION.
   (A)   With the application provided for in §
114.03 of this chapter, the applicant shall file in triplicate a list of the
motor vehicles intended to be operated as taxicabs, together with the bond,
contract of insurance or guaranty bond hereinafter provided for.
   (B)   The list shall contain the make, motor number, state license number
and seating capacity of each motor vehicle to be operated by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   The Common Council shall, after the approval by it of the bond or
contract of insurance filed with it by the applicant, issue to the applicant a
permit authorizing the applicant to operate taxicabs in the city, and shall
file with the Clerk-Treasurer a copy of the list of motor vehicles to be
operated as taxicabs, together with the permit granted and the bond or contract
of insurance filed at the time of application.
   (B)   Upon the filing with the Common Council of a copy of the list of motor
vehicles, together with permit or bond or contract of insurance, the applicant
shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a fee of $10 for the permit and a license fee
of $15 for each motor vehicle listed if payment is made before July 1 of any
calendar year and a license fee of $8 for each motor vehicle if payment is made
after July 1 of any year.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.06 DURATION OF PERMITS.
   Every permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.07 RENEWAL PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Renewal permits shall be applied for and issued in the same manner as
original permits.
   (B)   (1)   For each renewal permit, a fee of $10 shall be charged and paid
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   For each renewal license, a fee of $15 for each motor vehicle
listed shall be charged and paid to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.08 DOOR REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES.
   All taxicabs for the operation of which a permit shall be granted by this
chapter shall be equipped with two doors on each side.
(Prior Code, § 114.08) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 INSURANCE OR GUARANTY BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No permit to operate a taxicab in the city shall be issued until after
the applicant therefor has filed with the Clerk-Treasurer a contract of
insurance or guaranty bond.
   (B)   The contract of insurance or guaranty bond shall be issued by a
reliable insurance company admitted to do business in the state, with not less
than $1,000,000 in assets.
   (C)   The contract of insurance or guaranty bond shall be not less than
$15,000 to $30,000 public liability policy for protection of bodily injury,
with additional coverage of $10,000 for property damage. The policies are to be
the standard form of non- deductible.
   (D)   The contract of insurance or guaranty bond shall provide that it will
pay for any and all damages imposed by law upon the applicant, or any other
person operating any motor vehicle as a taxicab under the permit, or by virtue
of the provisions thereof, provided the damages result from bodily injury
including death, and damage to property sustained by any person during the
period covered by the contract of insurance or guaranty bond, by reason of the
ownership, maintenance, operation or use under the permit, or by virtue of the
provisions thereof, of any motor vehicle as a taxicab by any person whomsoever
regardless of the ownership of the motor vehicle.
   (E)   The contract of insurance or guaranty bond shall contain the further
provision that the obligations and promises contained therein shall not be
affected by any act or omission of:
      (1)   The named insured, its agents, employees, bailees or licensees;
      (2)   Any other person operating any motor vehicle as a taxicab under the
permit;
      (3)   By virtue of the provisions thereof on account of a default in the
payment of the premium on the contract of insurance or guaranty bond;
      (4)   The giving of any notice required by the provisions thereof or
otherwise; or
      (5)   By the insolvency of the insured named therein.
   (F)   It shall further be provided in the contract of insurance or guaranty
bond, that no cancellation thereof shall become effective for any reason until
five days after the written notice of the cancellation has been filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   (1)   The contract of insurance or guaranty bond shall provide that it
shall be in full force and effect from and after the issuance of a permit to
the applicant, and no permit shall be issued to any applicant therefor, unless
the contract of insurance or guaranty bond has been filed with and approved by
the Common Council.
      (2)   No contract of insurance or guaranty bond shall contain any
provision that liability shall not exist for claims, loss or damage, arising
while the taxicab is being operated from one place to another by any person
under the influence of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 114.09) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.10 NUMBER PLATES.
   (A)   After the issuance of a permit, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver to
the applicant a metal number plate for each motor vehicle listed in the
schedule filed, on which plate shall be printed or stamped the words “Car No.
           , 20     , New Haven, Indiana”, which plate shall, at all times when
the motor vehicle is being operated or used upon any public street, highway or
other public place in the city as a taxicab, be conspicuously displayed on the
rear thereof.
   (B)   In the event the holder of any permit desires to transfer any plate
from the motor vehicle for which it was issued, and use it on another motor
vehicle, he or she shall immediately notify the Clerk-Treasurer and furnish him
or her the name of the maker, the serial number and the seating capacity of the
motor vehicle to which the plate is to be transferred.
   (C)   In the event any person, firm or corporation applying for a permit,
has already been issued and granted a permit by a city of the second class in
the county, then so long as that permit is in force, the applicant:
      (1)   In applying for a permit from the city need not file an original
bond, undertaking or contract of liability insurance, but may file a duplicate
copy of the bond, undertaking or contract of liability insurance heretofore
filed and accepted by the city of the second class in the county;
      (2)   Shall be exempt from the license fee requirements for each motor
vehicle, and from the requirements of a metal number plate for each motor
vehicle; provided, the vehicle or vehicles are not permanently stationed or
operating in the city; and
      (3)   Shall file with its application for a permit, a detailed schedule
of the proposed rates and charges, which, if approved, shall not be altered
unless approval is granted by the Common Council of the city.
(Prior Code, § 114.10) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959; Ord. 710, passed 2-4-1963)
§ 114.11 PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   No permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
transferable.
   (B)   In the event of the death of the holder of any permit, or in case of
the dissolution of a corporation, or in the event a receiver or trustee in
bankruptcy is appointed for the holder of any permit issued under the
provisions of this chapter, the permit shall be null and void, and shall be
immediately surrendered to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 114.11) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.12 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY COMMON COUNCIL.
   The Common Council shall keep on file in its office, open to the inspection
of the public, an indexed record of all orders made and entered under and
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.12) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.13 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   For the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, any
ordinances of the city regulating the operation and use of taxicabs in the
city, any regulation issued by the Common Council pursuant to the authority
conferred upon it by virtue of the provisions hereof, or for any other
sufficient cause, the Common Council may, upon application filed by any person,
or upon the motion of the Common Council or any member thereof, revoke any
permit issued under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the filing of an application or motion, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
cause the application to be docketed for hearing before the Common Council, and
shall serve a copy of the application or motion on the holder of the permit
together with a notice of the date set for hearing, at least five days prior to
the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 114.13) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.14 VEHICLES TO BE OWNED AND OPERATED IN NAME OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated as a taxicab in the city by any person
unless the motor vehicle is owned by the holder of the permit under which it is
operated. No motor vehicle shall be operated as a taxicab in the city under the
name, style or designation or from the place of business of any person other
than the owner of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 114.14) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   Every taxicab operated in the city shall have the word “TAXI”, the name of
the holder of the permit under which the taxicab is operated, and the serial
body number assigned to it in the list on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, painted in letters and numbers at least six inches in height on each
side of the taxicab and on the rear thereof, and the letters and numbers shall
be painted a different color from the color of the cab.
(Prior Code, § 114.15) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 DRIVERS EMPLOYED BY PERMIT HOLDERS.
   (A)   Every holder of a permit to operate taxicabs shall maintain on file in
his or her own offices the names, addresses and number of the chauffeur’s
license of each of his or her drivers and the names and addresses of the next
of kin of each driver who should be notified in case of emergency.
   (B)   The list of drivers shall be open for inspection to the Police
Department of the city at all times and must be kept current.
   (C)   Every holder of a permit to operate taxicabs is prohibited to employ
any person as a driver of taxicabs who has been convicted of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 114.16) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 STATE CHAUFFEUR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No taxicab shall be driven or operated in the city by any person who has not
been licensed as a chauffeur by the state in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 114.17) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 RECORD OF TRIPS.
   (A)   Every holder of a permit for the operation of taxicabs in the city
shall keep an accurate record of all trips made by all of the taxicabs operated
under the permit.
   (B)   The record shall be made by the operator and driver of the taxicab and
shall show the points of origin and destination of all trips made, the number
of passengers carried and the time the trip began and was completed.
   (C)   (1)   The records shall be open to inspection by the Police and by the
Common Council or any of its duly authorized representatives.
      (2)   However, it shall not be necessary to preserve the record of any
trip for more than 60 days after the date the trip was made.
(Prior Code, § 114.18) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 ADEQUATE SERVICE AND FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person authorized to operate taxicabs in the city shall keep the
taxicabs clean, properly ventilated and heated, provided with comfortable
seats, in good repair and painted and decorated so as to present an attractive
appearance, both on the outside and inside of the taxicab.
   (B)   (1)   Any person authorized to operate taxicabs in the city shall
furnish reasonably adequate service and facilities.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to refuse to respond to calls by patrons,
unless the patron is immediately notified that taxicabs are not available to
render the service required by the patron.
   (C)   In the event a call is accepted to serve a patron and it is
subsequently determined that taxicabs are not available, the person operating
the taxicab shall immediately inform the patron that the service cannot be
rendered, in order to permit the patron to make other arrangements for
transportation service.
(Prior Code, § 114.19) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 APPEAL FROM ORDERS OF COMMON COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person adversely affected by any order made by the Common Council
under the provisions of this chapter may, within 20 days after the order is
entered, commence an action in the Circuit or either of the Superior Courts of
the county against the Common Council, to vacate or set aside the order on the
ground that it is insufficient, unreasonable, unlawful or procured by fraud or
other unlawful methods.
   (B)   Summons shall issue upon the complaint filed in such an action and be
served on the Common Council in the manner now provided by law in civil
actions, and the procedure in the trial of the cause shall be the same as in
the trial of civil actions.
   (C)   An appeal from the judgment of the Circuit or either of the Superior
Courts in such a cause may be taken to the Supreme or Appellate Court of the
state in the manner now provided for appeals in civil actions.
(Prior Code, § 114.20) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $200.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 659, passed 10-5-1959; Ord. 710, passed 2-4-1963)
CHAPTER 115: TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Information to be provided to city
   
115.03   Availability of information to public
   
115.04   Confidentiality of information; exceptions
   
115.05   Records of storage locations
   
115.06   Inspections
   
115.07   Exemptions
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the express purpose of this chapter to provide to the emergency
services of the city initial information relative to hazardous or toxic
materials which may be stored, compounded or manufactured in the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 115.02 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED TO CITY.
   (A)   Whenever a local business, industry or private person or enterprise is
required, under existing federal legislation, to provide to or maintain for the
federal government information relative to the storage, compounding or
manufacture of toxic or hazardous chemicals, the information so provided shall
also be forwarded to the city at its administrative offices.
   (B)   The city’s Fire Chief shall maintain records of the material so
forwarded to the city for a period of 30 years. A copy shall also be kept at
the city’s Police Department and shall be maintained by Fire Department
personnel.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 115.03 AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   The category and degree of hazard are conveyed through the color and
number coding system adopted by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc.,
as published in the current edition of NFPA 704 entitled Standard System for
the Identification of the Fire Hazards of Materials. A copy of NFPA 704 shall
be on file for public inspection in the Fire Chief’s office.
   (B)   This information is also on file in the Police Chief’s office and is
available to the public at a cost of $3 per copy.
   (C)   Common chemical name information is available to a physician or other
medical personnel.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 115.04 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The toxic or hazardous substance is identified by a generic chemical
classification that would provide sufficient information upon which a health
professional could render recommendations for adequate safeguards to prevent
toxic or hazardous exposure to the substance. All other information on the
properties and effects of the substance are made available on its material
safety data sheet/right-to- know form.
   (B)   The withheld confidential information shall be provided on a
confidential basis to a treating physician or other health personnel who states
in writing that a patient’s health problems may be related to exposure to a
toxic or hazardous substance. In an emergency situation, the physician’s or
other health personnel’s request may be oral. The confidentiality of the
manufacturer and the employer is recognized, and such confidential information
will not be made public.
   (C)   Confidential claims are not allowed concerning:
      (1)   Toxics that cause cancer or birth defects or affect reproductive
functions; or
      (2)   Toxics released into the air or water or scattered or spread across
the land.
   (D)   An employer shall specify which information, if any, contained on the
Fire Chief’s list is confidential information. The Fire Chief shall adopt
necessary and appropriate practices and procedures to protect information
identified as confidential from improper use or dissemination beyond the
purposes of this chapter. No officer, employee, agent or contractor of any city
department, board or commission shall knowingly and intentionally disclose to
anyone in any manner, unless authorized by law, confidential information,
except as is required to administer or enforce the provisions of this chapter
and perform official duties. Any person who violates this provision may be
fined, suspended or removed from office or employment, in addition to any other
applicable proceedings and penalties for violation of confidential protection
provided for under existing law.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Fire Chief or
his or her representative, or the Public Health Officer, is authorized to
disclose confidential information as designated by an employer when such action
is necessary to properly protect health, safety or property in an emergency
situation.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 115.05 RECORDS OF STORAGE LOCATIONS.
   Any business, industry, person, private enterprise or other entity affected
by this chapter shall cooperate with the personnel of the city’s Fire
Department to identify and locate and log areas within the workplace or
establishment where hazardous or toxic chemicals or materials are stored. Fire
Department personnel shall maintain a sketch or mapping of that area or areas.
If a change occurs at that workplace or establishment, it shall be the duty of
the business, industry, person, private enterprise or other entity affected
herein to notify the Fire Department of the change.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The city’s Fire Department shall conduct inspections of work places
where toxic or hazardous substances are used, compounded, mixed, manufactured
or stored. A maximum of three firefighters will be allowed on the worksite for
purposes of inspection at one time. These routine inspections will follow a 24-
hour notice given to the employer. The inspections, which are to be performed
not less frequently than annually, shall be for the purpose of determining:
      (1)   Toxic or hazardous substances are properly labeled;
      (2)   The location of toxic or hazardous substances is consistent with
the information required under §
115.04 of this chapter;
      (3)   The posting requirements of §
115.03(A) of this chapter are met; and
      (4)   Proper safety, containment and cleanup equipment is readily
available.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall investigate complaints from citizens or
workers that toxic or hazardous substances are not properly labeled.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 115.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Companies using toxic or hazardous substances in aggregate quantities
less than 50 pounds or ten gallons, drug stores or pharmacies, restaurants,
school education laboratories and grocery stores are exempt from the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to substances during
the first 48 hours after they enter the workplace.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   The city’s Fire Chief, his or her representative or the Public Health
Officer shall have the power to write citations for fines of up to $50 per day
per occurrence for non-compliance with this chapter. The violation and
subsequent fine will take effect at the time the citation is written. All fines
collected will be receipted to the Clerk-Treasurer and placed in a special
fund. This fund will be used to implement and carry out the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. G-86-1, passed 5-13-1986)
CHAPTER 116: INSPECTION FEES
Section
   
116.01   Inspection authorized
   
116.02   Fees
   
116.03   Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
116.04   Appropriations from Fund
§ 116.01 INSPECTION AUTHORIZED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-17, police officers of the city’s Police Department are
hereby authorized to inspect motor vehicles, semi-trailers or recreational
vehicles to verify the facts set forth in applications for certificates of
title for said vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 116.01) (Ord. G-88-9, passed 7-13-1988)
§ 116.02 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The city’s Police Department is hereby authorized to charge a
fee in the sum of $5 for each vehicle inspected.
      (2)   Said fee shall be charged to the owner of such vehicle or vehicles
for the inspection verification of the facts set forth in the application for
such certificates of title for such vehicle or vehicles.
   (B)   The city police officer making the inspection is authorized to collect
such fees and shall remit such fees daily to the Chief of Police or his or her
duly authorized representative. The Chief of Police or his or her duly
authorized representative shall remit such fees at least weekly to the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   A receipt for the certificate of title inspection fee shall be given
to the owner paying such fee with a duplicate copy of such form retained by the
city’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 116.02) (Ord. G-88-9, passed 7-13-1988)
§ 116.03 VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   The city’s Police Department certificate of title fees shall be deposited by
the City Clerk-Treasurer in a Special Vehicle Inspection Fund.
(Prior Code, § 116.03) (Ord. G-88-9, passed 7-13-1988)
§ 116.04 APPROPRIATIONS FROM FUND.
   Money in the Special Vehicle Inspection Fund may be appropriated only for
law enforcement purposes.
(Prior Code, § 116.04) (Ord. G-88-9, passed 7-13-1988)
CHAPTER 117: MASSAGE THERAPIST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Establishment license required
   
117.03   Exemptions
   
117.04   Application for massage establishment license
   
117.05   Issuance of licenses
   
117.06   Cause for denial, revocation or suspension of license
   
117.07   Hearings and appeals
   
117.08   License location
   
117.09   Transfer of license
   
117.10   Facilities necessary
   
117.11   Operating requirements
   
117.12   Persons under age 18 prohibited on premises
   
117.13   Hours
   
117.14   Inspection required
   
117.15   Unlawful acts
   
117.16   Name and place of business
   
117.17   Time limit for filing
   
117.18   Maintaining public nuisance
   
117.19   Current establishments
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY WORK PRACTITIONER. Any person who:
      (1)   Submits a certificate by a licensed physician, chiropractor or
osteopath who practices in the county that the person is competent and
efficient as a body work practitioner; or
      (2)   Who holds a diploma or other certificate of graduation from a
recognized school of massage and who is a certified massage therapist under
I.C. 25-21.8-4, 25-21.8-5 or 25-21.8-6.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders any service or transacts any sales in
connection with the operation of a massage establishment and receives
compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with any portion of the body or with
the aid of any mechanical, electrical or other apparatus or appliance, with or
without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics,
oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointment or other such similar preparations
commonly used in the practice of massage, under such circumstances that it is
reasonably expected that the person to whom the treatment is provided or some
third person on his or her behalf will pay money or give any other
consideration or gratuity therefor.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage, as defined above, and which
has a fixed place of business where any person, firm, association or
corporation engages in or carries on any of the activities as defined above. A
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT includes any establishment which would come under the
above description, whether the establishment is called a studio, massage
parlor, health club, bookstore or by any other name.
   MASSAGIST. Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in the
practice of massage, as defined above.
   PATRON. Any person who receives a massage under such circumstances that it
is reasonably expected that such person will pay money or give other
consideration therefor.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
cooperation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL OF MASSAGE. Any properly accredited school or institution
of learning which has for its purpose the teaching of the theory, ethics,
practice, method, profession or work of massage technician and has a program
which requires a resident course study of not less than 500 hours to be given
in not less than six calendar months before the student shall be furnished with
a diploma or certificate of graduation from such school or institution of
learning showing the successful completion of said course. Schools offering a
correspondence course not requiring actual attendance at class shall not be
deemed a RECOGNIZED SCHOOL.
(Prior Code, § 117.01) (Ord. G-00-15, passed 1-9-2001; Ord. G-09-17, passed 12-
22-2009)
§ 117.02 ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry out the business
of massage unless that person has a valid establishment license issued by the
city or qualifies for an exemption pursuant to §
117.03 of this chapter for each and every separate office or place of business
conducted by such person. A person who has a communicable or infectious disease
shall not work in any establishment licensed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.02) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17, passed
12-22-2009)
§ 117.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not regulate massages performed at the following
establishments:
   (A)   Hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums or other health care facilities
licensed under the state;
   (B)   Barbershops and beauty parlors, licensed under the laws of the state
and/or employing licensed barbers or beauty culturists; provided that, such
massage as is practiced is limited to the head and scalp of the customer or
client;
   (C)   Accredited schools and colleges and not-for- profit corporations
organized for educational, literary, scientific, religious or charitable
purposes that are exempt for federal taxation under the Internal Revenue Code,
and any organization that exclusively provides models for said schools,
colleges and not-for-profit corporations; and/or
   (D)   Establishments owned and operated by body work practitioners and which
employ only body work practitioners as massagists.
(Prior Code, § 117.03) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
§ 117.04 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE.
   (A)   Every applicant for a massage establishment license shall file an
application under oath with the city upon a form provided by the Chief of
Police and pay a non-refundable license fee, which shall be $100 for the first
license year and $50 for each successive renewal license year. Copies of the
application shall, within five days, be referred to the Zoning Department, the
county’s Building Department, the county’s Board of Health, and the New Haven-
Adams Township Fire Department. The departments shall, within 30 days after
receipt of the application, inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a
massage establishment, and shall make written verification to the Chief of
Police concerning compliance with the codes of the city or county they
administer. The Police Department shall further conduct an investigation of the
applicant’s character and qualifications.
   (B)   Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A definition of service to be provided;
      (2)   The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers where the
business is to be conducted;
      (3)   The name and address of each applicant (hereinafter all provisions
which refer to applicant include an applicant which may be a corporation or
partnership):
         (a)   If applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of each
of the officers and directors of said corporation and each stockholder owning
more than 20% of the stock of the corporation, and the address of the
corporation itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment;
and
         (b)   If applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of each
of the partners including limited partners, and the address of the partnership
itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment.
      (4)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address
of the applicant;
      (5)   Proof that the applicant is at least 21 years of age;
      (6)   Individual or partnership applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes
and hair, and sex;
      (7)   Copy of identification such as driver’s license;
      (8)   Two color portrait photographs of the applicant at least three
inches by three inches. If the applicant is a corporation, two color portrait
photographs at least three inches by three inches of all officers and managing
agents of said corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, two color
portrait photographs at least three inches by three inches in size of each
partner, including a limited partner in said partnership. A clear photocopy of
a government- issued photo ID may be substituted for the color portrait
photographs required in this division (B)(8);
      (9)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three
years immediately preceding the date of the application;
      (10)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether such person, in previously operating in this or another city or state
has had a business license revoked or suspended in the last five years, the
reason therefor, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such
action of suspension or revocation;
      (11)   All criminal convictions of applicant for the last five years (or
in the case of a partnership, each partner or, in the case of a corporation,
its manager, officers, directors, and shareholders owning more than 20% of the
stock of the corporation), other than misdemeanor traffic violations, but
including all violations of this chapter, with the dates of convictions, nature
of the crimes and place convicted;
      (12)   The name and address of any massage business or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in division (B)(3) above wherein the business or profession of massage is
carried on;
      (13)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises and a description of any other business to be operated on adjoining
premises, owned or controlled by the applicant;
      (14)   A list of all employees of the establishment, including all
massagists and any and all other employees, with the address, date of birth and
two color portrait photographs at least three inches by three inches of each
and every employee. A clear photocopy of a government-issued photo ID may be
substituted for the color portrait photographs required in this division (B)
(14); and
      (15)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit.
   (C)   Upon the completion of the above provided form and furnishing of all
foregoing information and fees, the Chief of Police shall accept the
application for the necessary investigations. The holder of an establishment
license shall notify the Chief of Police of each change in any of the data
required to be furnished by this section within ten days after such change
occurs.
(Prior Code, § 117.04) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17 passed 12-
22-2009)
§ 117.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Approval or denial of application. The Chief of Police shall act to
approve or deny an application for a license under this chapter within a
reasonable period of time and in no event later than 90 days from the date that
said application was filed.
   (B)   License must be issued. The Chief of Police must issue a license
unless he or she finds good cause for denying the license. Good cause for
license denial may be based upon any of the reasons listed in §
117.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.05) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
§ 117.06 CAUSE FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police may deny, revoke or suspend a massage establishment
license for the following reasons:
   (A)   The correct license fee has not been tendered to the city;
   (B)   The applicant for, or holder of, a license, if an individual; or any
of the stockholders holding more than 20% of the stock of the corporation; any
of the officers and directors, if the applicant or license holder is a
corporation; or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the
applicant or license holder is a partnership; or the manager or any other
person principally in charge of the massage establishment, has been convicted
of any of the following offenses or convicted of an offense without the state
that would have constituted any of the following offenses if committed within
the state, in the past five years:
      (1)   An offense involving the use of force or violence upon the person
of another that amounts to a felony pursuant to the laws of the state; or
      (2)   An offense involving sexual misconduct, which constitutes a felony
or misdemeanor under the laws of the state.
   (C)   The applicant for, or holder of, a license has knowingly made any
false, misleading or fraudulent statement of fact in the license application,
or in any document required by the city in connection with this chapter;
   (D)   The applicant or license holder has had an establishment, massagist or
other similar permit or license denied, revoked or suspended by the city or any
other state or local agency within the past five years;
   (E)   The applicant, if any individual; or any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other
person principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the
age of 21 years;
   (F)   The application was not completely filled out or the application was
not correctly filled out;
   (G)   The establishment would not comply with all applicable laws,
including, but not limited to, the city’s building, zoning and health
regulations, and with this chapter;
   (H)   Any person has committed, on the premises of the establishment, an act
that would constitute prostitution pursuant to the laws of the state, or any
offense involving narcotics, dangerous drugs or gambling, whether or not such
person has been convicted of such prostitution, narcotics, dangerous drugs or
gambling offense under the laws of the state; and/or
   (I)   The establishment, or any employee of the establishment, has not
complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.06) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17, passed
12-22-2009)
§ 117.07 HEARINGS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Denial of license. Upon the determination by the Chief of Police that
a license applied for ought not be issued, or a license issued should be
revoked, a notice shall be sent to the applicant or licensee by certified mail
stating the reason for the denial or revocation, and advising the applicant or
licensee of the right to a hearing before the Board of Works to appeal the
denial or revocation and the right to correct any defect in the application or
premises.
   (B)   Hearing. When a hearing is requested by an applicant or licensee, not
less than ten days’ written notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant or licensee, which notice shall designate the time and place where
the hearing will be held.
   (C)   Rights granted. At a hearing conducted pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant or licensee shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
present witnesses, to testify and cross-examine any other witnesses and to
subpoena witnesses. Proceedings shall be conducted under oath.
   (D)   Adverse decision. If any decision adverse to the applicant or licensee
is made by the Board of Works, after a hearing as provided above, the Board of
Works shall provide the applicant or licensee with a written reason for such
decision.
(Prior Code, § 117.07) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
§ 117.08 LICENSE LOCATION.
   (A)   Display required. All establishments, licensed under this chapter,
shall display their licenses in a visible location in the establishment for
which the license was issued.
   (B)   Annual term.
      (1)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year
from the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked.
      (2)   Such license must be renewed annually and any renewal shall be for
a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 117.08) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17, passed
12-22-2009)
§ 117.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensed establishment may be moved to another location providing:
   (A)   The location meets all the requirements of this chapter; and
   (B)   The Chief of Police is notified in writing a minimum of 30 days in
advance of the move.
(Prior Code, § 117.09) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
§ 117.10 FACILITIES NECESSARY.
   No license to operate a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the city reveals that the establishment complies with each of the
following minimum requirements.
   (A)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made water-proof with approved water-proofed materials, and shall be
installed in accordance with the county’s Building Code.
   (B)   (1)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing non- disposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages.
      (2)   Such non-disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   (C)   (1)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of
clean linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages.
      (2)   All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas.
   (D)   A single water closet shall be provided for each 20 or fewer employees
or patrons of that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be
substituted for water closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets
shall be designated as to the sex accommodated therein.
   (E)   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be installed in each restroom. Lavatories or washbasins shall be provided
with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary towels.
(Prior Code, § 117.10) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17, passed
12-22-2009) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Prices for all services shall be prominently posted in the reception
area in a location available to all prospective customers. No service will be
performed for which a price is not posted.
   (C)   A separate dressing room for each employee and each patron must be
available on the premises with individual lockers for each. Doors to such
dressing rooms shall open inward and shall be self- closing.
   (D)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity, and shall be laundered after each use
thereof, and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of
this chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed,
published or distributed any advertisement, picture or statement which is known
or through the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false,
deceptive or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize
any professional massage services.
(Prior Code, § 117.11) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.12 PERSONS UNDER AGE 18 PROHIBITED ON PREMISES.
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to come to or
remain on the premises of any massage establishment, as massagist, employee or
patron without prior written consent from a parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 117.12) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17, passed
12-22-2009) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.13 HOURS.
   No massage establishment shall be kept open for any purpose between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 117.13) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.14 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police through duly authorized
representatives to inspect massage establishments from time to time to
determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Inspections are to be made at reasonable times, with due regard to the
nature of the business to be inspected.
   (C)   Upon showing the proper credentials, the representatives of the Chief
of Police shall be entitled to inspect portions of the massage establishment
open to the public to determine compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.14) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
§ 117.15 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage establishment, to
place his or her hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his or her body,
to fondle in any manner or to massage, the breast, genital organ or pubic area
of any other person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage establishment, to
expose his or her genital organ or, if female, the nipple or areola of her
breast, to any other person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a
massage establishment to cause, allow or permit on the premises of such
establishment, any person to perform such acts prohibited in divisions (A) or
(B) above.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any massage service to be carried on within
any cubicle, room, booth or area within a massage establishment which is fitted
with a door capable of being locked.
(Prior Code, § 117.15) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17, passed
12-22-2009) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.16 NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No person granted a license pursuant to this chapter shall operate the
massage establishment under a name not specified in his or her license, nor
shall he or she conduct business under any designation or location not
specified in the license.
(Prior Code, § 117.16) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.17 TIME LIMIT FOR FILING.
   Applications for renewals of licenses must be filed not more than 60 days,
nor less than 30 days, prior to termination of an existing license.
(Prior Code, § 117.17) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
§ 117.18 MAINTAINING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any building used as a massage establishment in violation of this chapter,
with the actual or constructive knowledge of the owner thereof, or of the agent
of the owner managing such building, together with all fixtures and other
property used in conjunction with the operation of said building, are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 117.19) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. G-09-17, passed
12-22-2009) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.19 CURRENT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All massage establishments must comply with the provisions of this chapter
within ten days after the effective date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 117.20) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any license under this chapter violating any provision thereof shall
be subject to license revocation or suspension pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $300, and not more than $2,500. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 117.18) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 7-25-1995)
CHAPTER 118: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Purpose; findings and rationale
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   License required
   
118.04   Issuance of license
   
118.05   Fees
   
118.06   Inspection
   
118.07   Expiration and renewal of license
   
118.08   Suspension
   
118.09   Revocation
   
118.10   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
118.11   Transfer of license
   
118.12   Hours of operation
   
118.13   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films on
premises
   
118.14   Loitering, exterior lighting and monitoring and interior lighting
requirements
   
118.15   Remedies
   
118.16   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
118.17   Prohibited conduct
   
118.18   Science required to prove violation or business licensee liability
   
118.19   Failure of city to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee rights
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS AND RATIONALE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually-
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually-oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually- oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent, nor effect, of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution
of obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Common Council, and on findings, interpretations and narrowing
constructions incorporated in the cases of: City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-
4, L.L.C., 541 U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535
U.S. 425 (2002); City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of
Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini
Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560
(1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority
v. Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); and Plaza Group Properties, LLC v. Spencer
County Plan Commission, 877 N.E.2d 877 (Ind. Ct. App. 2007); Illinois One News,
Inc. v. City of Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007); G.M. Enterprises, Inc.
v. Town of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003); Andy’s Restaurant &
Lounge, Inc. v. City of Gary, 466 F.3d 550 (7th Cir. 2006); Schultz v. City of
Cumberland, 26 F. Supp. 2d 1128 (W.D. Wisc. 1998), aff’d in part, rev’d in
part, 228 F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000); Blue Canary Corp. v. City of Milwaukee, 270
F.3d 1156 (7th Cir. 2001); Matney v. County of Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir.
1996); Berg v. Health & Hospital Corp., 865 F.2d 797 (7th Cir. 1989); DiMa
Corp. v. Town of Hallie, 185 F.3d 823 (7th Cir. 1999); Graff v. City of
Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (7th Cir. 1993); North Avenue Novelties, Inc. v. City of
Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (7th Cir. 1996); Chulchian v. City of Indianapolis, 633
F.2d 27 (7th Cir. 1980); Bigg Wolf Discount Video v. Montgomery County, 256 F.
Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); County of Cook v. Renaissance Arcade and Bookstore,
122 Ill. 2d 123 (1988) (including cases cited therein); Ben’s Bar, Inc. v.
Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); LLEH, Inc. v. Wichita
County, 289 F.3d 358 (5th Cir. 2002); Sensations, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids,
526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of
Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona
Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); Williams v. Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th
Cir. 2007); H&A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007);
Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Knox County, 555 F.3d 512 (6th Cir. 2009); Richland
Bookmart, Inc. v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Spokane Arcade, Inc.
v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996); City of New York v. Hommes,
724 N.E.2d 368 (N.Y. 1999); For the People Theatres of N.Y., Inc. v. City of
New York, 793 N.Y.S.2d 356 (N.Y. App. Div. 2005); Taylor v. State, No. 01-01-
00505-CR, 2002 WL 1722154 (Tex. App. July 25, 2002); Gammoh v. City of La
Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. v. City of
Littleton, Civil Action No. 99-N-1696, Memorandum Decision and Order (D. Colo.
March 31, 2001); People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion’s Den, Inc., Case No. 04-CH-
26, Modified Permanent Injunction Order (Ill. Fourth Judicial Circuit,
Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc. v. City of
Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-166-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law (N.D.
Tex. May 26, 2005); and based upon reports concerning secondary effects
occurring in and around sexually-oriented businesses, including, but not
limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove,
California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979, 1995-
98; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Los Angeles, California - 1977;
Whittier, California - 1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota -
1994; Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas
- 1997; Ft. Worth, Texas - 2004; Kennedale, Texas - 2005; Greensboro, North
Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas - 1977; Jackson County, Missouri - 2008;
Louisville, Kentucky - 2004; New York, New York Times Square - 1994; and the
Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually-
Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Common Council
finds:
      (1)   Sexually-oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter
and sexual assault and exploitation; and
      (2)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the city has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the city’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually-oriented and non-sexually-oriented
businesses. Additionally, the city’s interest in regulating sexually-oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually-oriented businesses that may locate in the city. The city finds
that the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably
believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
   (C)   Findings. The city hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated
findings and legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of
sexually-oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports
related to such secondary effects.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business activities, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter; or photographs, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides; or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. A principal business
activity exists where the commercial establishment meets any one or more of the
following criteria:
      (1)   At least 35% of the establishment’s displayed merchandise consists
of said items;
      (2)   At least 35% of the wholesale value of the establishment’s
displayed merchandise consists of said items;
      (3)   At least 35% of the retail value (defined as the price charged to
customers) of the establishment’s displayed merchandise consists of said items;
      (4)   At least 35% of the establishment’s revenues derive from the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of said items;
      (5)   The establishment maintains at least 35% of its floor space for the
display, sale and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to access
said items shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the display, sale
or rental of said items);
      (6)   The establishment maintains at least 500 square feet) of its floor
space for the display, sale and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways
used to access said items shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the
display, sale or rental of said items);
      (7)   The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least
2,000 of said items;
      (8)   The establishment regularly features said items and regularly
advertises itself or holds itself out, by using “adult”, “adults-only”, “XXX”,
“sex”, “erotic”, “novelties” or substantially similar language, as an
establishment that caters to adult sexual interests; or
      (9)   The establishment maintains an “adult arcade”, which means any
place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or
slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are
regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any
one time, and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis
upon matter exhibiting specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club or
similar commercial establishment, regardless of whether alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features live conduct characterized by semi-nudity. No
establishment shall avoid classification as an ADULT CABARET by offering or
featuring nudity.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
persons for any form of consideration.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually-
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   CITY. The City of New Haven, Indiana.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE and EMPLOYMENT. Any person who performs any service on the
premises of a sexually-oriented business, on a full-time, part- time or
contract basis, regardless of whether the person is denominated an employee,
independent contractor, agent or otherwise. EMPLOYEE does not include a person
exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for
the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business.
   FLOOR SPACE. The floor area inside a sexually-oriented business that is
visible or accessible to patrons for any reason, excluding restrooms.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney, not otherwise employed by the city, who is
licensed to practice law in the state, and retained to serve as an independent
tribunal to conduct hearings under this chapter.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. Any of the following:
      (1)   The actual power to operate the sexually-oriented business or
control the operation, management or policies of the sexually-oriented business
or legal entity which operates the sexually- oriented business;
      (2)   Ownership of a financial interest of 30% or more of a business or
of any class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holding an office (e.g., president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer, managing member, managing director and the like) in a legal entity
which operates the sexually-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually-oriented business license. In the
case of an “employee”, it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually-
oriented business employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, vulva
or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and
areola.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually-oriented business who
causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business
or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall operational
control of the business premises. A person may be found to be operating or
causing to be operated a sexually-oriented business regardless of whether that
person is an owner, part owner or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually-oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually-oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
sexually-oriented business license.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an on-going basis.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard or similar wearing
apparel; provided, the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
semi-nudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where persons
appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed for stimulation of the
male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female breast or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
commonly known as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt
plugs, nipple clamps and physical representations of the human genital organs.
Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily
intended for protection against sexually-transmitted diseases or for preventing
pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. This definition shall not be construed to include any pharmacy,
drug store, medical clinic, any establishment primarily dedicated to providing
medical or healthcare products or services, or any establishment that does not
limit access to its premises or a portion of its premises to adults only.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore or adult video store, an
adult cabaret, an adult motion picture theater, a semi-nude model studio or a
sexual device shop.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals; pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   Rape, sexual assault, public indecency, statutory rape, rape of a
child, sexual exploitation of a minor, indecent exposure;
      (2)   Prostitution, patronizing prostitution, promoting prostitution;
      (3)   Obscenity;
      (4)   Dealing in controlled substances;
      (5)   Racketeering, tax evasion, money laundering;
      (6)   Any attempt, solicitation or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (7)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in the state, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth or area where a patron of a sexually-oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
digital video disc or other video reproduction.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
sexually-oriented business in the city without a valid sexually-oriented
business license.
   (B)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
“employee”, as defined in this chapter, of a sexually-oriented business in the
city without a valid sexually-oriented business employee license; except that,
a person who is a licensee under a valid sexually-oriented business license
shall not be required to also obtain a sexually-oriented business employee
license.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   An applicant for a sexually-oriented business license or a
sexually-oriented business employee license shall file in person at the office
of the city’s Chief of Police a completed application made on a form provided
by the Chief of Police. A sexually-oriented business may designate an
individual with an influential interest in the business to file its application
for a sexually-oriented business license in person on behalf of the business.
The application shall be signed as required by division (D) below and shall be
notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it contains, for
each person required to sign the application, the information and/or items
required in this division (C), accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee:
         (a)   The applicant’s full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five years;
         (b)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license, a
picture identification document containing the applicant’s date of birth issued
by a governmental agency, or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a
picture identification document issued by a governmental agency;
         (d)   If the application is for a sexually- oriented business license,
the business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone
number of the sexually-oriented business;
         (e)   If the application is for a sexually- oriented business license,
the name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized
to receive service of process;
         (f)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter and, if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction and
release from confinement, where applicable;
         (g)   A statement of whether any sexually-oriented business in which
an applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years
(and at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
            1.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
            2.   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
         (h)   An application for a sexually- oriented business license shall
be accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business and a
statement of floor area visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared
but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants
who are required to comply with the stage, booth and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations. The Chief of Police may waive the requirements of this division
(C)(1)(h) for a renewal application if the applicant adopts a legal description
and a sketch or diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The information provided pursuant to this division (C) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
Chief of Police within ten working days of a change of circumstances which
would render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   (D)   Signature. A person who seeks a sexually- oriented business employee
license under this section shall sign the application for a license. If a
person who seeks a sexually-oriented business license under this section is an
individual, he or she shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who seeks a sexually-oriented business license is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the sexually-oriented
business or in a legal entity that controls the sexually-oriented business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if a license is granted.
   (E)   Confidentiality. The information provided by an applicant in
connection with an application for a license under this chapter shall be
maintained by the office of the Chief of Police on a confidential basis, and
such information may be disclosed only as may be required, and only to the
extent required, by governing law or court order. Any information protected by
the right to privacy as recognized by state or federal law shall be redacted
prior to such disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 118.03) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Business license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually-oriented business license, the Chief of Police shall immediately issue
a temporary license to the applicant if the completed application is from a
preexisting sexually-oriented business that is lawfully operating in the city
and the completed application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is
entitled to an annual sexually-oriented business license. The temporary license
shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant an annual
license. Within 20 days of the filing of a completed sexually-oriented business
license application, the Chief of Police shall either issue a license to the
applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the
applicant. The Chief of Police shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   The sexually-oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with the locational requirements of any other part of this
code of ordinances;
      (5)   Any sexually-oriented business in which an applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (6)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually-oriented business employee license, the Chief of Police shall
immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant if the applicant seeks
licensure to work in a licensed sexually-oriented business and the completed
application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled to an annual
sexually-oriented business employee license. The temporary license shall expire
upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant an annual license. Within
20 days of the filing of a completed sexually-oriented business employee
license application, the Chief of Police shall either issue a license to the
applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the
applicant. The Chief of Police shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   Any sexually-oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   Information. The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name
of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license
issued to the licensee(s), the expiration date and, if the license is for a
sexually-oriented business, the address of the sexually-oriented business. The
sexually- oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that it may be read
at any time that the business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public.
A sexually-oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s license on his
or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or
performing.
(Prior Code, § 118.04) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.05 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually-oriented business
licenses and sexually- oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
$100 for the initial fee for a sexually-oriented business license and $50 for
annual renewal; $50 for the initial sexually-oriented business employee license
and $25 for annual renewal.
(Prior Code, § 118.05) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.06 INSPECTION.
   Sexually-oriented businesses and sexually- oriented business employees shall
permit the Chief of Police and his or her agents to inspect, from time to time
on an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually-oriented business premises
where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
specific regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually-
oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section
shall be narrowly construed by the city to authorize reasonable inspections of
the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a
harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
(Prior Code, § 118.06) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.07 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
90 days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and when made
less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the current
license will not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 118.07) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.08 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend
a sexually-oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the
sexually-oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this
chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend
a sexually-oriented business employee license for a period not to exceed 30
days if the employee licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 118.08) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually-oriented business license or a sexually-oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if the licensee knowingly or recklessly violates this
chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee’s license has become
effective within the previous 12- month period.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually-oriented business license or a sexually-oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually-oriented business license or the sexually-oriented
business employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the
sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the sexually-oriented business;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the sexually-oriented business; or
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to consume alcohol or appear in a state of semi-nudity or
nudity on the premises of the sexually-oriented business.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license; provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year
and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented business license or
sexually-oriented business employee license for one year from the date
revocation becomes effective.
(Prior Code, § 118.09) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.10 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   When the Chief of Police issues a written notice of intent to
deny, suspend or revoke a license, the Chief of Police shall immediately send
such notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for
such action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or
certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the Chief of Police for the
respondent. The notice shall also set forth the following: the respondent shall
have ten days after the delivery of the written notice to submit, at the office
of the Chief of Police, a written request for a hearing. If the respondent does
not request a hearing within said ten days, the Chief of Police’s written
notice shall become a final denial, suspension or revocation, as the case may
be, on the thirtieth day after it is issued, and shall be subject to the
provisions of division (B) below.
      (2)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten days, then the Chief of Police shall, within ten days after the
submission of the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date,
time and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than ten
days, nor more than 20 days, after the date that the hearing notice is issued.
The city shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
      (3)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent’s arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the Chief
of Police’s witnesses. The Chief of Police shall also be represented by counsel
and shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending or
revoking the license. The hearing shall take no longer than two days, unless
extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due
process and proper administration of justice. The Hearing Officer shall issue a
final written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to
this chapter, to the respondent within five days after the hearing.
      (4)   If the decision is to deny, suspend or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer’s decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension or revocation of the
license, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the Chief of Police to immediately withdraw the intent to deny,
suspend or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by
certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the Chief
of Police shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
city shall prepare and transmit to the court a transcript of the hearing within
30 days after receiving written notice of the filing of the court action. The
city shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any
sexually-oriented business that is lawfully operating as a sexually-oriented
business, or any sexually-oriented business employee that is lawfully employed
as a sexually-oriented business employee, on the date on which the completed
business or employee application, as applicable, is filed with the Chief of
Police: upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain or
otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement of any denial, suspension or revocation
of a temporary license or annual license, the Chief of Police shall immediately
issue the respondent a provisional license. The provisional license shall allow
the respondent to continue operation of the sexually- oriented business or to
continue employment as a sexually-oriented business employee and will expire
upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the respondent’s appeal or other action
to restrain or otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 118.10) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually- oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually-oriented
business license application.
(Prior Code, § 118.11) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Prior Code, § 118.12) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.13 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT FILMS ON
PREMISES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the premises, through any
mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film, video cassette,
digital video disc or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis on
the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually-oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator’s
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films, video
cassettes, digital video discs or other video reproductions. The diagram shall
also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Chief of Police may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the licensed premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   The occupancy of viewing rooms less than 150 square feet is
limited to one person;
         (b)   Specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited;
         (c)   The making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited;
         (d)   Violators will be required to leave the premises; and
         (e)   Violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in divisions (A)(5)(a) though (A)(5)(e) above.
      (7)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room, but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator’s station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises has two or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the operator’s stations.
The view required in this division (A)(7) must be by direct line of sight from
the operator’s station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least
one employee is on duty and situated in each operator’s station at all times
that any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and
it shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure
that the view area specified in this division (A)(7) remains unobstructed by
any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or
enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the premises.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor or seat in any booth or viewing room.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(8) above to knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly enter or remain in a viewing
room less than 150 square feet in area that is occupied by any other patron.
   (D)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly be or remain within one foot
of any other patron while in a viewing room that is 150 square feet or larger
in area.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make any hole or opening
between viewing rooms.
(Prior Code, § 118.13) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.14 LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING AND INTERIOR LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually-oriented
business to:
         (a)   Ensure that at least two conspicuous signs stating that no
loitering is permitted on the premises are posted on the premises;
         (b)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every
90 minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and monitors; and
         (c)   Provide lighting to the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (2)   If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at
all times that the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within an operator’s station.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually-oriented business
to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at the floor level and the illumination must be maintained at all
times that any customer is present in or on the premises.
   (C)   No sexually-oriented business shall erect a fence, wall or similar
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 118.14) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.15 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any premises on which repeated violations of the chapter occur shall
constitute a public nuisance. For purposes of this chapter, REPEATED VIOLATIONS
shall mean three or more violations of this chapter within a one-year period
dating from the time of any violation.
   (B)   The city’s legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings to enjoin, restrain or correct violations of this chapter. Such
proceedings shall be brought in the name of the city; provided, however, that,
nothing in this section and no action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude
such proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this chapter, or
any of the laws in force in the city, or to exempt anyone violating this code
or any part of said laws from any liability which may be incurred.
(Prior Code, § 118.15) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.16 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   All preexisting sexually-oriented businesses lawfully operating in the city
in compliance with all state and local laws prior to the effective date of this
chapter, and all sexually-oriented business employees working in the city prior
to the effective date of this chapter, are hereby granted a de facto temporary
license to continue operation or employment for a period of 90 days following
the effective date of this chapter. By the end of said 90 days, all sexually-
oriented businesses and sexually-oriented business employees must conform to
and abide by the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 118.16) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.17 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No patron, employee or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually-oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or
engage in a specified sexual activity.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually-oriented
business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee who,
while semi-nude, remains at least six feet from all patrons and on a stage at
least 18 inches from the floor in a room of at least 600 square feet.
   (C)   No employee who regularly appears semi-nude in a sexually-oriented
business shall knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a
customer on the premises of a sexually- oriented business.
   (D)   No person shall possess, use or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a sexually- oriented business.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain on the premises of a sexually-oriented business.
   (F)   No operator or licensee of a sexually- oriented business shall
knowingly violate the regulations in this section or knowingly allow an
employee or any other person to violate the regulations in this section.
   (G)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the Chief of Police, and
summarizing the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), (D) and (E) above, shall
be posted near the entrance of the sexually-oriented business in such a manner
as to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry. No person shall cover, obstruct
or obscure said sign.
(Prior Code, § 118.17) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.18 SCIENCE REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s license shall be imputed to the sexually-oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension or revocation, only if an officer, director or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Prior Code, § 118.18) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.19 FAILURE OF CITY TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/ LICENSEE
RIGHTS.
   In the event that a city official is required to act or to do a thing
pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to act or to do
such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the
exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the city official under this chapter, and not completed in the time
prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by the
city of an applicant or licensee’s application for a sexually-oriented business
license or a sexually-oriented business employee’s license (including a
renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the business or employee
allowed to commence operations or employment the day after the deadline for the
city’s action has passed.
(Prior Code, § 118.19) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   A first violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine in the
amount of $2,500. A second or subsequent violation of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine in the amount of $7,500. Each day a violation is
committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be fined as such.
(Prior Code, § 118.15) (Ord. G-09-15, passed 12-14-2009)
CHAPTER 119: OUTDOOR DINING AREAS
Section
   
119.01   Outdoor dining areas
§ 119.01 OUTDOOR DINING AREAS.
   Any dining establishment in the city may close, from March 1 to December 15,
a portion of a public sidewalk for the purpose of operating a sidewalk café
subject to the following conditions and limitations.
   (A)   The city’s Board of Public Works shall have the authority to grant
written permission on written requests submitted by food establishments, eating
or drinking places within the city.
   (B)   A person or entity may submit an application to the Board of Public
Work containing the following information:
      (1)   A brief description of the plans to situate the outdoor dining
area, including furniture;
      (2)   Written proof of liability insurance naming the city as a co-
insured in a form and amount satisfactory to the City Attorney and the
underwriter of the city’s general liability insurance carrier; and
      (3)   For an applicant who wishes to serve alcohol, the following
additional requirements and conditions apply.
         (a)   The applicant must comply with all provisions of I.C. 7.1-3-9-2.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide a copy of materials submitted to the
state’s Alcohol and Tobacco Commission as part of its application under
this section.
         (c)   A violation of any rule of the state’s Alcohol and Tobacco
Commission shall be grounds for immediate revocation of a permit.
         (d)   Written approval must be received from the state’s Alcohol and
Tobacco Commission pursuant to 905 I.A.C. 1-41-4(a) and a copy thereof
submitted to, and maintained by, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer. Any condition
placed on the applicant by the state’s Alcohol and Tobacco Commission shall
also be a condition for approval pursuant to this section.
         (e)   The dining area shall not be considered part of any “alcohol-
free zone” previously established by this code of ordinances, under Ord. G-92-
3.
   (C)   The following rules shall apply to any sidewalk dining area.
      (1)   The outdoor dining area shall not be conducted in such a way as to
become a public nuisance.
      (2)   The outdoor dining area shall at all times leave at least four feet
of flat sidewalk for pedestrian and wheelchair traffic, free from obstructions.
      (3)   The outdoor dining area shall be made available to patrons of the
permittee only and no pass through or window service shall be permitted.
      (4)   The outdoor dining area shall be kept in a neat and orderly fashion
in appearance and shall be kept free from refuse and debris.
      (5)   The owner of any establishment shall be held strictly liable for
any damage to city property within the dining area and failure to pay for any
such damage shall be grounds to deny or refuse to renew a permit.
      (6)   No furniture, umbrella or other material placed on the sidewalk by
the owner shall obstruct the clear vision of any street sign or traffic
regulatory sign.
      (7)   Stereo systems, stereo speakers or audio devices for sound
reproduction may be operated in the sidewalk dining area.
      (8)   The owner of any establishment must comply with all state and local
Fire and Building Codes.
   (D)   Once approved, the Board of Public Works shall issue a permit good for
one year from the date of approval. The Board of Public Works shall review the
permit annually and decide whether to renew the permit. In deciding whether to
grant or renew a permit, the Board of Public Works shall use the criteria set
forth above.
(Prior Code, § 119.01) (Ord. G-09-03, passed 3-24-2009; Ord. G-09-15, passed
12-14-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AFFECTING PERSONS AND PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AFFECTING PERSONS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Discrimination in the sale, rental of housing, or other real property
   
130.011   Other forms of discrimination
   
130.02   Damaging street signs or guide posts
   
130.03   Weapons
   
130.04   Defacing, damaging or destroying public buildings or property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE, RENTAL OF HOUSING OR OTHER REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Policy statement. It shall be the policy of the city to provide,
within constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate
limits as provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended,
the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and
Indiana Code 22-9.5-1 et seq.
   (B)   Definitions. The definitions set forth in this division (B) shall
apply throughout this section and §
130.011:
      AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
         (a)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice; or
         (b)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
      COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4, et seq.
      COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
      DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under divisions
(D), (E), (F), (G), or (H) of this section, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure
that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by
one or more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for
the construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
      FAMILIAL STATUS.
         (a)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
         (b)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
      FAMILY. Includes a single individual with the status of such family being
further defined above in this section.
      HANDICAP. With respect to a person means:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities.
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment, or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of the United
States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual
solely because that individual is a transvestite.
      PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
jointstock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
      TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant
for a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
   (C)   Unlawful practice. Subject to the provisions of subsection (C)(2) of
this section, division (I) of this section and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions
against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-
9.5-5-1 and in division (D) of this section shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (C)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3.
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (C)(3) of this section,
nothing in division (D) of this section shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesman, or person and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of division (D)(3) of this
section, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title, or
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
      (3)   For the purposes of division (C)(2) above, a person shall be deemed
to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
         (a)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein, or
         (b)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
         (c)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
   (D)   Discrimination in the Sale or Rental of Housing.  As made applicable
by division (C) of this section and except as exempted by division (C)(2) and
division (J), it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c. Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities
providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people
(commonly cited as ANSI Al17.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (D)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available to an
individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
   (E)   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
      (2)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
         (a)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
      (3)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business
of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors
other than race, color, religions national origin, sex, handicap, or familial
status.
   (F)   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service. It shall be
unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of such
access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (G)   Interference, coercion, or intimidation. It shall be unlawful to
coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the exercise or
enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised or enjoyed, or on account
of his having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment
of, any right granted or protected by divisions (C), (D), (E) or (F) of this
section.
   (H)   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases. Whoever, whether or
not acting under code or law, by force or threat of force willfully injures,
intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure, intimidate or interfere
with:
      (1)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
      (2)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities. services. organizations or facilities described in division (H)(1)
above; or
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      (3)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (H)(1),
or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
   (I)   Equal access to housing in HUD programs. Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403
and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of "family" is revised to include families
regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or
marital status of its members.
   (J)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall
be exempt from the provisions of this section to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (J)(2) and (J)(3) of this section.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this section prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
      (3)   Nothing in this section regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, “housing for
older persons” means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
   (K)   Severability of provisions. If any provision of this section or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be determined to be
invalid, the remainder of the section and the application of its provisions to
other persons not similarly situated or to other circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.
(Ord. G-19-13, passed 10-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   State definitions relating to discrimination, see     I.C. 22-9.5-2
§ 130.011 OTHER FORMS OF DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   Discrimination in employment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discriminate against any
person by treating the person differently or by excluding from or failing or
refusing to extend to any person equal opportunities with respect to hiring,
termination, compensation or other terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment, because of race, sex, color, religion, national origin or handicap.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any employer to fail to make reasonable
accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise
qualified handicapped employee or prospective employee, or to fail to make
reasonable accommodations to the religious observance or practice of any
employee or prospective employee, unless the employer can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the conduct of the employer's
business.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, print or publish, or
cause to be made, printed or published, any notice, statement or advertisement
with respect to employment that indicates a preference, limitation,
specification or discrimination based on race, sex, religion, color, national
origin or handicap.
   (B)   Discrimination of labor organizations. It shall be unlawful for a
labor organization:
      (1)   To exclude or expel from its membership, or otherwise to
discriminate against any individual because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin or handicap;
      (2)   To limit, segregate or classify its membership, or applicants for
membership, or to classify or fail or refuse to refer for employment any
individual in any way which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of
employment opportunities, or would limit employment opportunities, or otherwise
adversely affect his or her status as an employee or as an applicant for
employment, because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap;
and/or
      (3)   To cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against an
individual in violation of this section.
   (C)   Discrimination in public accommodations. It shall be unlawful for any
person or establishment which caters or offers its services or facilities or
goods to the general public to discriminate against anyone because of race,
sex, color, religion, national origin or handicap.
   (D)   Discrimination in education. It shall be unlawful for any person,
establishment or governmental agency regularly engaged in the offering of
educational services to discriminate against anyone because of race, sex,
color, national origin or handicap.
   (E)   Other unlawful practices.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid, abet, incite, compel or
coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be unlawful.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to obstruct the fair
and lawful enforcement of this section by coercing or intimidating any
complainant or prospective complainant, or any witness to any act made unlawful
herein, or by destroying any records, documents or other evidence relevant to
any alleged unlawful discriminatory practice as defined in this section, after
such person has received actual notice of a discrimination charge or has been
served notice of a complaint filed.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discriminate against any
other person with regard to, or to deny any other person with regard to, or to
deny any other person access to opportunities in, employment, real estate
transactions, education or public accommodations because any such other person
has opposed any practice made unlawful by this section, or because such other
person has made a charge, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in
an investigation, proceeding or hearing under this section.
   (F)   Administration and enforcement of ordinance.
      (1)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
section and §
130.01 and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth in
division (2) below shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the City of
New Haven, Indiana.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other State or Federal law,
the City of New Haven, Indiana, because of lack of financial and other
resources necessary to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible
civil actions under this section and §
130.01, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
articles of this section and §
130.01 by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions and the Chief Elected Official of the City
of New Haven, Indiana, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief.
      (3)   The Chief Elected Official of the City of New Haven, Indiana, or
the Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. G-19-13, passed 10-8-2019)
§ 130.02 DAMAGING STREET SIGNS OR GUIDE POSTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to mutilate, destroy, tamper with or damage
any of the street signs and guide posts in the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 571, passed 4-16-1945) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge, shoot or fire any pistol, rifle,
shotgun, air gun, pellet gun or any spring or air operated gun capable of
emitting projectiles, any slingshot, bow and arrow, crossbow or any device
designed to propel a projectile by explosives, or by air or by spring pressure
within the corporate limits of the city, except in cases where special written
permission has been granted by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   Such permission given shall be revoked if unsafe and dangerous acts
are evident.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting discharge of a
weapon:
      (1)   In defense of life or property under otherwise lawful
circumstances;
      (2)   By law enforcement officers in performance of their duties;
      (3)   At public or private shooting ranges where permission has been
granted by the Chief of Police to construct or operate said range; and/or
      (4)   By a person while engaged in farming as may be reasonable or
necessary to the farming operation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall establish guidelines for permits; these
guidelines shall be received and approved by Council, at Council’s discretion.
   (D)   An affected applicant/permittee may appeal denial of a permit to the
Board of Works.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. G-94-18, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DEFACING, DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PUBLIC BUILDINGS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to deface, damage, destroy or vandalize any
public buildings or property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) (Ord. G-12-64, passed 6-9-1964) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
    Any person violating §§
130.02,
130.03, or
130.04 of this chapter shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 for each
offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. G-94-18, passed 11-22-1994; Ord. G-19-14, passed
10-8-2019)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Congregating in public places
   
131.03   Disturbing place of worship or public meetings
   
131.04   Interference with public officials prohibited
   
131.05   Civil emergencies
   
131.06   Curfew
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to disturb the peace and quiet of
the city or of its inhabitants by any of the following actions:
   (A)   Loud talking or the making of unusual noises;
   (B)   The crying of any alarm without good cause;
   (C)   Threatening any person, challenging him or her to fight or menacing
him or her with physical injury or pecuniary loss; and/or
   (D)   Accosting or approaching any person of the opposite sex unknown to the
person and by word, sign or gesture attempting to speak to or become acquainted
with that person against his or her will, except in the transaction of
legitimate business.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) (Ord. G-12-71, passed 7-13-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 CONGREGATING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person to congregate with or cause to be congregated
a crowd of three or more persons on any public street, alley, sidewalk, parking
lot, school or school grounds, building or any other public place within the
city so as to obstruct the same, hinder or annoy passers-by or occupants of
adjacent premises or interfere with the activities normally engaged in on the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. G-12-71, passed 7-13-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DISTURBING PLACE OF WORSHIP OR PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons within the city by any loud or
unnecessary talking or shouting, any threatening, abusive, profane or obscene
language or violent action or by any other rude behavior to interrupt, molest,
annoy or disturb any group of persons convened for the purpose of worship, or
any meeting of persons met together for any lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) (Ord. G-12-71, passed 7-13-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC OFFICIALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to intentionally impede or
interfere with, or attempt to impede or interfere with, any police officer,
firefighter or other city official in the performance of his or her duty or
emergency functions.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) (Ord. G-12-71, passed 7-13-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 CIVIL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CIVIL EMERGENCY. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence, or any threat to use force if accompanied by
immediate power to execute the force, by three or more persons acting together
without authority of law, or any natural disaster or human-made calamity
including flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion
within the corporate limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of
persons or the destruction of property, to such extent that extraordinary
measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city during the
hours in which a CURFEW has been imposed, except persons officially designated
to duty with reference to civil emergency.
   (B)   Proclamation by Mayor. When, in the judgment of the Mayor, a civil
emergency is deemed to exist, he or she shall, forthwith, proclaim in writing
the existence of the civil emergency. In case of the absence of the Mayor from
the city, the Chief of Police shall be authorized to act in his or her stead.
   (C)   Imposition of curfew. After proclamation of a civil emergency by the
Mayor, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to any geographical
areas of the city or to the city as a whole which he or she deems advisable and
applicable, during those hours of the day or night which he or she deems
necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Additional regulations. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the
Mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all
of the following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (6)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of firearms or ammunition; and/or
      (8)   Issue orders that are imminently necessary for the protection of
life and property.
   (E)   Emergency powers. During the period of a declared state of emergency,
the Mayor shall have the power to invoke any or all of the following
provisions.
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic
beverages in a public street, a place which is publicly owned or in any motor
vehicle driven or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted
area.
      (2)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick or weapon, who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the
persons or property of another.
      (3)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess or use
any type of Molotov cocktail, gasoline, petroleum-base fire bomb or other
incendiary missile.
      (4)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
Mayor as a restricted area unless in the performance of official duties or with
written permission from the Mayor or his or her duly designated representative,
or such person shall have a residence therein.
(Prior Code, § 131.05) (Ord. G-12-71, passed 7-13-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be in
a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of any person 15, 16 or 17 years of age
knowingly to permit the minor person to be upon the streets, alleys, public
places, public grounds or public thoroughfares of the city during the above-
mentioned hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any child less than 15 years of age, on any
day to be in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m.
   (D)   It shall also be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of any person less than 15 years of age
knowingly to permit the minor person to be upon the streets, alleys, public
places, public grounds or public thoroughfares of the city during the above-
mentioned hours.
   (E)   The following are defenses to this section:
      (1)   The minor was emancipated pursuant to I.C. 31-37-19-27 (or its
precursors or successor provisions), by virtue of having been married or in
accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction at the time the minor
engaged in the prohibitive conduct.
      (2)   The minor is accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian or
custodian.
      (3)   The minor is accompanied by an adult specified by the minor’s
parent, guardian or custodian.
      (4)   The minor was participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event; or
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage.
      (5)   The minor was participating in an activity involving the exercise
of said minor’s rights protected under the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution, Article I, Section 31 of the Constitution of the state or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly.
      (6)   The minor was participating in an activity conducted by a non-
profit or governmental entity that provides recreation, education, training or
other care under the supervision of one or more adults.
      (7)   The minor was participating in an activity undertaken at the prior
written direction of the minor’s parent, guardian or custodian.
      (8)   The minor was engaged in interstate or international travel from a
location outside of the state to another location.
(Prior Code, § 131.06) (Ord. G-12-71, passed 7-13-1971; Ord. G-18-6, passed 4-
30-2018) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter or any order made by the
Mayor of the city in accordance with the terms of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 131.99) (Ord. G-12-71, passed 7-13-1971)
CHAPTER 132: SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
132.01   Synthetic cannabinoids
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful within the city, for any
person, including a corporation or other entity, to use, possess, purchase,
attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale or attempt to sell, give
or barter any synthetic equivalents of the substances contained in the plant,
or in the resinous extractives of Cannabis, sp. and/or synthetic substances,
derivatives and their isomers with similar chemical structure and
pharmacological activity, such as the following:
         (a)   1 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, or its optical isomers;
         (b)   6 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, or its optical isomers;
and/or
         (c)   3, 4 cis or trans tetrahydro- cannabinol, or its optical
isomers.
      (2)   Since nomenclature of these substances is not internationally
standardized, compounds of these structures, regardless of numerical
designation of atomic positions are similarly prohibited.
   (B)   This section may be enforced by the city’s Police Department, Code
Enforcement Division or the county’s Health Department. Any substance
reasonably suspected to be described by division (A) above may be seized and
held as evidence pending adjudication of the alleged violation.
   (C)   It is not an offense under division (A) above if the person was acting
at the direction of an authorized law enforcement agent to enforce or ensure
compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the aforementioned substances.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any person who commits any act
described in this section pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct such act or prescribe such
substance. This section likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia
for a medical purpose or dental purpose.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) (Ord. G-10-5, passed 8-24-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter will be subject to
a civil fine of up to $2,500.
   (B)   Each day during which a violation of this chapter occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) (Ord. G-10-5, passed 8-24-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   [RESERVED]
      
151.   [RESERVED]
      
152.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
      
153.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   [RESERVED]
      
155.   BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
      
156.   [RESERVED]
      
157.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 151: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 152: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Section
   
152.01   Application procedures for designating economic revitalization areas
   
152.02   Residentially distressed area designation
   
152.03   Community benefit review
   
152.04   Compliance with statement of benefits (CF-1) annual review
   
152.05   Waivers of noncompliance
   
152.06   Delegation of responsibility
   
152.07   Prior designations
§ 152.01 APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATING ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS.
   The Council, in accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq. shall make available
the opportunity to receive real estate and personal property tax abatement to
qualifying companies located within the City of New Haven.
   (A)   The economic development division staff of the Allen County Department
of Planning Services shall provide a formal application and Statement of
Benefits (SB-1) form/s to interested parties.
      (1)   The owner(s) of property located within the jurisdiction of the
Council shall initiate the process by filing a completed and signed application
and Statement of Benefits (SB-1) form/s with economic development staff.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by the established filing fee.
         (a)   Five hundred dollars for real or personal property deduction;
         (b)   Seven hundred fifty dollars for both real and personal property
deduction; or
         (c)   Five hundred dollars for vacant building deduction only.
      (3)   (a)   Upon receipt of an application, the economic development
staff shall:
            1.   Note the date of filing on the application; and
            2.   Review it for completeness.
         (b)   Acceptable applications shall be submitted to the Council for
formal consideration at their next available meeting.
         (c)   Provide the Council with appropriate maps necessary to identify
the area for which the applicant requests economic revitalization area
designation along with a simplified description of the its boundaries.
         (d)   Provide the applicant written notice when the Council will
formally consider the application. The applicant or its representative shall be
present at the Council meeting at which the application and statement of
benefits form/s is/are considered.
      (4)   After review of the information provided in the application, by the
staff, the applicant and other interested persons, the Council may:
         (a)   Find that the real estate under consideration meets the
definition and standards of an economic revitalization area, as set forth in
I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1(1) and §
152.02. In such instances, the Council may adopt a declaratory resolution
stating same and cause the action set forth in division (A)(5) herein to occur.
Said declaratory resolution shall include the reasons upon which the
determination is made.
         (b)   Find that there is sufficient information and defer action on
the matter. The applicant shall be provided written notice of the reasons for
deferral within ten days of that action.
         (c)   Determine that the real estate should not be designated as an
economic revitalization area and provide the applicant written notice thereof.
      (5)   Upon adoption of a declaratory resolution the Council shall:
         (a)   Set the date, time, and location for a public hearing at which
the Council will receive and hear all comments from interested persons;
         (b)   Cause notice of the adoption and substance of the declaratory
resolution to be published in accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c) and I.C.
5-3-1. The notice shall state that a description of the affected area is
available and can be inspected in the offices of the Allen County Department of
Planning Services, the Allen County Assessor, and the City Clerk. The notice
shall also state the time, date, and location of the subsequent public hearing
on the matter; and
         (c)   Cause a generalized description of the subject real estate to be
attached to the declaratory resolution and file same with the Allen County
Assessor, the Allen County Auditor, and the City Clerk.
      (6)   Upon considering the evidence presented at the public hearing, the
Council shall take final action on the request for designation by either
confirming, modifying and confirming, or rescinding the subject declaratory
resolution. The applicant(s) or its representative shall be present at the
public hearing to provide such information as may be needed.
      (7)   The determination of the confirmatory resolution made pursuant to
division (A)(6) herein shall be final except that an appeal may be taken as
provided in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d) and I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(e).
      (8)   Upon confirming, or modifying and confirming, a declaratory
resolution by the procedures set forth herein, the City Clerk, the Allen County
Auditor and the economic development division shall keep a permanent record of
the designation of the subject economic revitalization area. The economic
development division staff shall also provide the Auditor with a final
designation packet to be utilized in the review of applications for deduction
pursuant to I.C. 6- 1.1-12.1-5 and I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.4.
   (B)   (1)   The economic development division staff of the Allen County
Department of Planning Services shall not review application for economic
revitalization area status for any of the project types noted below, whether or
not said project is located within an economic development target area:
         (a)   Massage parlor;
         (b)   Hot tub facility;
         (c)   Racetrack;
         (d)   Tobacco store or facility where tobacco or tobacco products
comprise the majority (greater than 50%) of sales;
         (e)   Arcade facility or facility with primarily arcade games;
         (f)   Sales, warehousing, distribution or servicing facility where
guns or other types of weaponry and/or ammunition of any type comprise the
majority (greater than 50%) of sales, whether or not used for purposes of
sport;
         (g)   Pawn shop; or
         (h)   Package liquor store that holds a liquor dealer's permit under
Indiana Code (I.C. 7.1-3-10) or any other entity require to operate under a
license issued under I.C. 7.1 et seq.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions in division (B)(1)(h),
an applicant may submit an application for economic revitalization area
designation, for equipment/personal property deduction only, for entities
operating wholesale operations under a license issued under Indiana Code (I.C.
7.1-3-3, I.C. 7.1-3-8, or I.C. 7.1-3-13) provided however that an applicant
applying for an equipment/personal property deduction noted herein shall not be
eligible to make said application or have said application approved if the
applicant is also licensed to do business under any other section contained in
I.C. 7.1 et seq.
   (C)   Applications will be evaluated and the information provided within
will be applied toward the point system to determine the recommended length of
the abatement. Abatements can be granted for a period of three, five, seven or
ten years for both real and personal property.
   (D)   For applications that include personal property, the applicant shall
provide the expected life of each asset (piece of equipment) for depreciation
purposes. The abatement period for personal property may be limited to a term
that is less than the depreciable life of the asset.
   (E)   For applications that include manufacturing equipment, the applicant
shall indicate whether special tools (as defined by Indiana Administrative Code
Title 50 Department of Local Government Finance, Article 4.2 Assessment of
Tangible Personal Property) are included in the new manufacturing equipment.
Special tooling may be limited to a one-year abatement term.
   (F)   (1)   For applicants indicating that there is a retail component to
their business, they must also indicate, by percentage of overall business, to
what extent.
         (a)   Anything less than 10% shall be considered a de minimus amount
while any amount above 50% will make the project ineligible for abatement
unless located within a designated economic development target area and not
defined as ineligible under Indiana Code (I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3(e)).
         (b)   For retail percentages between 10% and 50%, only the non-retail
percentage of the total investment shall be included in the abatement deduction
amount.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, when a project is located within a
designated economic development target area and not defined ineligible under
Indiana Code (I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3(e)), then such project may receive a five-year
deduction without adhering to the point system.
   (G)   For applicants that are service-based businesses the following
criteria must be met to be eligible for abatement.
      (1)   More than 25% of the customer base for the service-based business
is located outside of Allen County, Indiana or more than 25% of the annual
gross revenue of the service-based business is generated by customers located
outside of Allen County.
      (2)   (a)   The amount of the investment for which the abatement is being
sought by the applicant is $5,000,000 or more.
         (b)   Under division (F) a service-based business is a commercial
enterprise that derives more than 50% of its annual gross revenue directly from
labor performed in an expert manner by an individual or team for the benefit of
its customers/clients as opposed to the sale of tangible goods and/or products.
The definition includes, without limitation, businesses such as law firms,
accounting firms, consulting firms, financial services firms, insurance
agencies, marketing/advertising agencies, and medical and dental practices. The
definition does not include retail establishments, the eligibility of which is
determined under I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3(e).
   (H)   Applicants for projects involving the redevelopment or rehabilitation
of a speculative building may receive a ten-year phased deduction without
adhering to the point system. For purposes of this section, a speculative
building is a building development, construction, or rehabilitation of at least
50,000 square feet that is reasonably likely to create new jobs when the
developer has no formal commitment from a buyer or tenant to purchase or lease
the end product, whether the end product is a fully completed, move-in ready
building or a partially completed shell suitable for build-out improvements by
the future owner or tenant. Additional incentives for the final build out and
personal property (equipment) may be considered upon the identification of the
end user. Any additional incentives will adhere to the point system for real
and personal property abatement at the time of submittal.
   (I)   The owner of an eligible vacant building, as defined in I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-1(19), is entitled to a deduction from the assessed value of the building
if the property owner or tenant of the property owner occupies the eligible
vacant building and uses it for commercial or industrial purposes. Property
owner is entitled to the deduction for no more than two years with the
deduction schedule as follows:
         Year 1 = 100% deduction
         Year 2 = 50% deduction
   (J)   (1)   The criteria for a 20-year personal property deduction are as
follows:
         (a)   The company will create at least 1,000 new jobs within two years
of submitting its application;
         (b)   The company will invest at least $500,000,000 in eligible
personal property; and
         (c)   The amount of income taxes generated by the new jobs will be
equal to or exceed the value of the deduction after year ten years.
      (2)   Per I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-18(e), Council will hold a public hearing for
any abatement schedule that exceeds ten years to review the taxpayer's
compliance with statement of benefits form (CF-1) after the tenth year.
The deduction schedule for a 20-year deduction is as follows:
Year 1  100%
Year 2  95%
Year 3  90%
Year 4  85%
Year 5  80%
Year 6  75%
Year 7  70%
Year 8  65%
Year 9  60%
Year 10 55%
Year 11 50%
Year 12 45%
Year 13 40%
Year 14 35%
Year 15 30%
Year 16 25%
Year 17 20%
Year 18 15%
Year 19 10%
Year 20 5%
 
(Ord. G-20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.02 RESIDENTIALLY DISTRESSED AREA DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Upon appropriate request, the Council will designate as residentially
distressed areas those parcels of property which are located within the
corporate limits of the city and meet all the following criteria specified in
I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2(b):
      (1)   The area is comprised of parcels that are either unimproved or
contain only one or two-family dwellings or multi-family dwellings designed for
up to four families, including accessory structures for those dwellings;
      (2)   Any dwellings in the area are not permanently occupied and are
either:
         (a)   The subject of an order issued under I.C. 36-7-9; or
         (b)   Evidencing significant building deficiencies.
      (3)   Parcels of property in the area either:
         (a)   Have been sold and not redeemed under I.C. 6-1.1-25; or
         (b)   Are owned by a unit of local government.
   (B)   As an alternative to the findings required by division (A) above, the
Council will designate as residentially distressed areas those parcels of
property which are located within the corporate limits of the city and meet all
the following alternative criteria specified in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2(c):
      (1)   A significant number of dwelling units within the area are not
permanently occupied or a significant number of parcels in the area are vacant
land;
      (2)   A significant number of dwelling units within the area are either:
         (a)   The subject of an order issued under I.C. 36-7-9; or
         (b)   Evidencing significant building deficiencies.
      (3)   The area has experienced a net loss in the number of dwelling
units, as documented by census information, local building and demolition
permits, or certificates of occupancy, or the area is owned by Indiana or the
United States; and
      (4)   The area (plus any areas previously designated under this division)
will not exceed 10% of the total area within Common Council's jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any property designated as a residentially distressed area under
divisions (A) or (B) above must also fulfill the following obligations for the
property owner to receive a deduction:
      (1)   Dwellings built or rehabilitated on the property must meet local
code standards for habitability;
      (2)   Dwellings must be built or rehabilitated on the property within two
years of the date of designation as a residentially distressed area.
   (D)   The deduction awarded for property located in a residentially
distressed area shall be available for a period of five years. The amount of
the deduction the owner of the property is entitled to receive for each
particular year equals the product of:
      (1)   The increase in the assessed value resulting from the
rehabilitation or redevelopment; multiplied by:
      (2)   The following percentages for each year that the deduction may be
taken:
 
Year Percentage
1    100%
2    80%
3    60%
4    40%
5    20%
 
(Ord. G-20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.03 COMMUNITY BENEFIT REVIEW.
   The Council shall consider all findings of fact pertaining to an application
for tax abatement.
   (A)   The Council, in its deliberations, may, pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2,
give consideration to the following general standards to determine if:
      (1)   The proposed use of the real estate for which a deduction is being
sought is consistent with the land use policies contained in the New Haven
Comprehensive Land and Strategic Economic Plan adopted by the Council;
      (2)   The deduction will assist in the inducement of a project that will
result in the retention and/or creation of substantial employment opportunities
relative to the value of the investment;
      (3)   The deduction will encourage the use of vacant or under-utilized
land or improvement or replacement of a deteriorated or obsolete structure
designated as appropriate for industrial or commercial development;
      (4)   The deduction will encourage the improvement or replacement of
deteriorated or obsolete manufacturing and/or research and development and/or
logistical distribution and/or information technology equipment; or
      (5)   The deduction will assist in the inducement of a project which
would provide long-term benefits to the tax base of the City of New Haven and
Allen County warranting the granting of abatement.
   (B)   In all instances, the Council shall find that evidence has been
provided either in the application or during the public hearing that the real
estate proposed for designation is either in an area "which has become
undesirable for, or impossible of, normal development and occupancy because of
a lack of development, cessation of growth, deterioration of improvements or
character of occupancy, age, obsolescence, substandard buildings, or other
factors which have impaired values or prevent a normal development of property
or use of property" or "where a facility or a group of facilities that are
technologically, economically, or energy obsolete are located and where the
obsolescence may lead to a decline in employment and tax revenues."
   (C)   The Council shall not consider an application for designation, unless
a waiver of noncompliance has been granted pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-11.3, if
prior to the filing of the application:
      (1)   An improvement location permit has been filed for the project at
the City of New Haven Planning Department;
      (2)   A building permit for the subject rehabilitation has been filed for
the project at the Allen County Building Department; or
      (3)   Equipment for which a deduction is being sought has been installed
(as defined in Indiana Administrative Code Title 50 Department of Local
Government Finance, Article 4.2 Assessment of Tangible Personal Property).
(Ord. G-20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.04 COMPLIANCE WITH STATEMENT OF BENEFITS (CF-1) ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The applicant shall provide economic development staff with an annual report
(Compliance with Statement of Benefits, Form CF-1) showing the extent to which
there has been compliance with the Statement of Benefits (SB-1) form. The CF-
1 form must be filed with the Allen County Auditor and economic development
division staff according to the filing schedule required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.1
and I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.6.
   (A)   Economic development division staff shall analyze all CF-1 forms and
compile a summary sheet and findings of fact to present to the Council from
which a determination of substantial compliance or non-compliance will be made.
   (B)   Economic development division staff shall use the following review
procedure of CF-1 forms.
      (1)   The first step in the review process compares the CF-1 form to the
statement of benefits (SB-1) form approved by Council to find whether the
project substantially complies with the SB-1. Substantial compliance shall be
defined as:
         (a)   Creating or retaining at least 75% of the total number of full-
time and/or part-time jobs delineated in the approved statement of benefits
(SB-1) form; and/or
         (b)   Creating or retaining at least 75% of the total salaries
delineated in the approved statement of benefits (SB-1) form, within the
timeframe projected in the applicant's approved statement of benefits (SB-1)
form.
      (2)   If the project is deemed not to be in substantial compliance in the
first step, the staff shall investigate further whether the property owner made
a reasonable effort to substantially comply and whether the applicant's failure
to substantially comply was caused by factors beyond their control. Staff will:
         (a)   Examine whether the investment in real estate or personal
property equals or exceeds 75% of the investment delineated in the approved
statement of benefits (SB-1) form within the projected timeframe; and
         (b)   Contact the person listed as the applicant contact person on the
CF-1 form to seek an explanation as to why the project is not in substantial
compliance. The staff may request the explanation be provided in writing. If
the staff finds, based on the second step, that the applicant made a reasonable
effort to substantially comply and that the applicant's failure to
substantially comply was caused by factors beyond the control of the applicant,
the project will be considered in substantial compliance for purposes of the
CF-1 form. If the staff finds, based on the second step, that the applicant did
not make a reasonable effort substantially comply and that its failure to
substantially comply was not caused by factors beyond the applicant's control,
the project will be considered not in substantial compliance for purposes of
the CF-1 form. Staff will provide a report summarizing the staff's findings to
the Council from which the Council can make a determination as to whether the
project should or should not be deemed to be in substantial compliance.
   (C)   The Council will review the CF-1 forms using the following criteria:
      (1)   Employment:
         (a)   Number of employees retained (jobs retained); and
         (b)   Number of additional employees (jobs created).
      (2)   Salaries:
         (a)   Salaries of employees retained (salaries retained); and
         (b)   Salaries of additional employees (salaries created).
      (3)   Investment (values of proposed project):
         (a)   Real estate: cost of real estate improvements; and
         (b)   Personal property: cost of manufacturing, research and
development, logistical distribution and information technology equipment.
   (D)   State law provides that within 45 days after an applicant files a CF-
1 form, the Council shall determine whether the applicant has substantially
complied with the statement of benefits (SB-1) form. Those forms that are found
by the staff not to be in substantial compliance will be brought to the
attention of the Council first for the Council to determine what further action
is necessary. However, since the 45- day time period only limits the Council's
ability to pursue terminating a deduction, those that are found to be in
compliance will be submitted for formal approval with a final report following
the end of the filing period.
   (E)   If an applicant fails to file a CF-1 form by the filing deadline,
fails to file a CF-1 form that provides sufficient information (as determined
by staff) to determine substantial compliance, or the circumstances are such
that the staff has information indicating that the information provided on the
CF-1 form may be inaccurate, the staff will make a reasonable effort to contact
the applicant to obtain a complete and accurate CF-1 form. If the applicant
still fails to provide a complete and accurate CF-1 form, then the staff will
bring the failure to the attention of the Council for the Council to determine
whether the project should be deemed not to be in substantial compliance. The
staff, working with the Allen County Auditor's Office, will monitor property
owners who have receive a SB-1 approval from the Council and who are eligible
to receive a tax abatement deduction, to facilitate the timely and accurate
submission of CF-1 forms.
   (F)   The staff's determination that the project fails to substantially
comply with a statement of benefits does not necessarily mean that the
abatement will be rescinded. If the Council, based on the information provided
by the staff, determines that a project is not in substantial compliance, the
staff will send official notification to the applicant and schedule a hearing
with the Council pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.9. The hearing will be held
within 30 days after the date on which the notice is mailed.
   (G)   Based on the evidence presented at the hearing by the applicant and
other interested parties, the Council shall determine whether the applicant has
made reasonable efforts to substantially comply with the statement of benefits
and whether any failure to substantially comply was caused by factors beyond
the control of the applicant. If the Council determines that the applicant has
not made reasonable efforts to comply with the statement of benefits, the
Council shall adopt a resolution terminating the applicant's deduction under
the authority of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.9(c).
   (H)   An applicant that has received a deduction for real property or
personal property and:
      (1)   Ceases operations at the facility for which the deduction was
granted; and
      (2)   Is found to have intentionally provided false information
concerning plans to continue operations at the facility, may be required to
repay to the Allen County Treasurer, under the authority of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-12,
those property taxes that were deducted.
(Ord. G-20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.05 WAIVERS OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Indiana State law I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-9.5 and 6-1.1-12.1-11.3, makes it
possible for an applicant to request that the designating body waive
noncompliance for the following:
      (1)   Failure to submit a statement of benefits prior to a public
hearing;
      (2)   Failure to designate an economic revitalization area (ERA) or
submit a statement of benefits prior to construction of a facility and/or
installation of equipment;
      (3)   Failure to make the necessary findings of fact as required in I.C.
6-1.1-12.1-2, 6-1.1-12.1-3, 6-1.1-12.1-4.5 or 6-1.1-12.1-4.8 before designating
an area as an ERA or authorizing a deduction for new equipment; or
      (4)   Failure to file a timely and complete deduction application as
required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5, 6-1.1-12.1-5.3 and 6-1.1-12.1-5.4.
   (B)   Waivers of noncompliance should only be considered for those companies
in compliance with local and state governmental entities.
      (1)   Companies must verify that they are not delinquent on any taxes
owed (property, income or sales), their compliance with statement of benefits
(CF-1) form/s have been filed on time and are substantially compliant, and
there are no outstanding state or federal environmental issues.
      (2)   Staff will verify and affirm that companies have met all above
criteria.
   (C)   To begin the waiver process, the applicant must first contact economic
development division staff in the Allen County Department of Planning Services.
      (1)   If staff determines that a waiver is needed, a formal request from
the company should be made in writing explaining the circumstance(s).
      (2)   The company will also need to address the steps needed to correct
the problem and the actions the company will take to correct further problems
from occurring.
   (D)   The following procedures shall be followed:
      (1)   Waiver of noncompliance for failure to file timely application and
statement of benefits (SB-1) form/s
         (a)   For personal property, waivers will only be considered on
equipment installed within one month prior to date application is received.
         (b)   For real property, waivers will only be considered on
applications where applicant has applied for an improvement location permit/
structural permit one month prior to date application is received.
         (c)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
      (2)   Waiver of noncompliance for failure to file timely deduction
paperwork.
         (a)   Personal property waivers will only be considered for failure to
file 103-ERA and 103-EL paperwork within the last 12 months or one year.
         (b)   Real property waivers will only be considered for failure to
file Form 322/RE within the last 12 months or one year.
         (c)   The Council may not grant waivers for property owners who have
failed to file deduction paperwork more than once during the deduction period.
         (d)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
      (3)   Waivers of noncompliance for clerical errors.
         (a)   Personal property waivers will only be considered on clerical
errors made by the applicant that affect the proper reporting of project
location, project or investment timeframe, and cost of investment.
         (b)   Real property waivers will only be considered on clerical errors
made by the applicant that affect the proper reporting of project location,
project or investment timeframe, and cost of investment.
         (c)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
(Ord. G-20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.06 DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Council does hereby designate the Allen County Department of Planning
Services economic development division as the administrative agency for
processing applications for the designation of economic revitalization areas.
The economic development division, in conducting its responsibilities under
this delegation, may undertake the following actions:
   (A)   Keep abreast of changes in the state enabling legislation and
communicate changes to Council members;
   (B)   Develop and implement procedures to address changes in the state
enabling legislation;
   (C)   Maintain an appropriate application form that is consistent with state
law and Council procedures;
   (D)   Accept applications for designation and collect the required filing
fee to be submitted to the Allen County Treasurer;
   (E)   Review said applications for completeness and provide Council with
supporting data necessary to properly consider such requests;
   (F)   Work with Council and the New Haven Planning Department to establish
guidelines to evaluate applications in order to determine the length of the
abatement period;
   (G)   Prepare public review files required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c);
   (H)   Prepare and cause to be published legal notice of the Council's
consideration of said application as required in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c) and
I.C. 5-3-1;
   (I)   Prepare draft declaratory and confirmatory resolutions for the
Council's review and consideration;
   (J)   Keep permanent records of all properly filed applications and duly
designated economic revitalization areas;
   (K)   Act on behalf of the Council in corresponding with the applicant(s)
and other interested persons regarding the status of an application;
   (L)   Prepare and provide the Allen County Auditor with a final designation
packet which shall include information necessary for the review of applications
for deduction pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5, I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.3, and I.C. 6-
1.1-12.1-5.4; and
   (M)   Evaluate annual reports (CF-1 forms) submitted by applicants under §
152.03 and provide a report to the Council within 45 days summarizing
compliance of reporting companies.
(Ord. G-20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.07 PRIOR DESIGNATIONS.
   The designation of all real estate designated as an economic revitalization
area under the provisions of New Haven Common Council Ordinance No. G-00-11
shall remain in effect for the time period and type described in the respective
declaratory and/or confirmatory resolutions.
(Ord. G-20-01, passed 3-3-2020)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title and adoption
   
153.02   Guidance and consideration
   
153.03   Amendments
Transportation Plan
   
153.15   Title and adoption
   
153.16   Guidance and consideration
   
153.17   Copy on file
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE AND ADOPTION.
   The Comprehensive Plan for the City of New Haven shall be formally known as
"The Comprehensive Plan for the City of New Haven"; it may also be cited and
referred to as the "New Haven Comprehensive Plan" or the "Comprehensive Plan".
The Comprehensive Plan, containing goals, objectives, strategies, guiding
principles, maps, figures, and charts for community facilities, community
identity and appearance, economic development, environmental stewardship,
housing and neighborhoods, land use, transportation, and utilities, was adopted
by the New Haven Common Council on April 23, 2002.
(Ord. Z-20-18, passed 11-3-2020)
§ 153.02 GUIDANCE AND CONSIDERATION.
   The Common Council of the City of New Haven and each governmental entity
within the planning jurisdiction of the New Haven Plan Commission shall be
guided by and give consideration to the general policy and pattern of
development set out in the Comprehensive Plan and to other land use policies
adopted in this subchapter, including the:
   (A)   Authorization, acceptance, or construction of water mains, sewers,
connections, facilities, or utilities;
   (B)   Authorization, construction, development, alteration, or abandonment
of public ways, public places, public lands, public buildings and structures,
or public utilities;
   (C)   Objectives and policies for future land use development; and
   (D)   Adoption, amendment, or repeal of zoning ordinances, (including zoning
maps), subdivision control ordinances, historic preservation ordinances, and
other land use ordinances.
(Ord. Z-20-18, passed 11-3-2020)
§ 153.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan shall be prepared and approved
according to the procedures set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-500 (the 500 series -
Comprehensive Plan). Copy on File A copy of the approved Comprehensive Plan,
including all maps and amendments, shall be placed and kept on file in the
office of the New Haven Planning Department and shall be available for public
examination during the regular business hours of said offices.
(Ord. Z-20-18, passed 11-3-2020)
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
§ 153.15 TITLE AND ADOPTION.
   A Transportation Plan, prepared by the Northeastern Indiana Regional
Coordinating Council and adopted by the New Haven Common Council, shall be
considered the Transportation Plan for the City of New Haven. It may be cited
and referred to as the "Transportation Plan".
(Ord. Z-20-18, passed 11-3-2020)
§ 153.16 GUIDANCE AND CONSIDERATION.
   The New Haven Common Council and other governmental entities within the
jurisdiction of the New Haven Plan Commission shall pay reasonable regard to
the general policies, objectives, and proposed highway, transit, and
pedestrian/bicycle systems improvement projects set forth in the Transportation
Plan as part of the review and approval of proposed projects; the
authorization, construction, development, and improvement of public streets and
roadways; the abandonment of public ways; and other matters relevant to the
Transportation Plan.
(Ord. Z-20-18, passed 11-3-2020)
§ 153.17 COPY ON FILE.
   A copy of the approved Transportation Plan shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk. A copy of the Transportation Plan shall also be
placed and kept on file in the office of the Planning Department and in the
office of the Northeastern Indiana Regional Coordinating Council (NIRCC). The
Transportation Plan shall be available for public examination during the
regular business hours of said offices.
(Ord. Z-20-18, passed 11-3-2020)
CHAPTER 154: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 155: BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Designation of County Building Department as Building Department of
city
   
155.02   Adoption by reference of County Building Code
Unsafe Building Law
   
155.15   State law adopted
   
155.16   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY BUILDING DEPARTMENT AS BUILDING DEPARTMENT OF
CITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-7, the Common Council of the city hereby
designates the county’s Building Department to administer and enforce the
ordinances adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-3 and the standards imposed by I.C.
36-7-8-5 within the city limits.
   (B)   The county’s Building Department shall have all of the powers and
duties which may be granted to a building department of the city as fully and
as completely as if the city were to establish its own building department.
   (C)   The city does hereby ratify, confirm and approve all acts of the
county’s Building Department in regard to the performance of its duties as
provided for hereunder.
   (D)   The city does hereby ratify, confirm and approve all contracts
heretofore or hereafter executed by and between the city and the county to
provide for and accomplish the aforesaid stated goals, ideals, objectives and
purposes.
   (E)   The city shall enter into such new contracts with the county as may be
appropriate to effectuate the purposes hereof.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. G-88-7, passed 4-12-1988)
§ 155.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF COUNTY BUILDING CODE.
   The Common Council of the city does hereby adopt by reference to be
effective within the city limits the building, heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing and sanitation standards adopted by the
county for unincorporated areas of the county.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. G-88-7, passed 4-12-1988)
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 155.15 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of the state’s Unsafe Building Law is adopted by the city as
provided by I.C. 36-7-9-3.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. G-07-05, passed 6-26-2007)
§ 155.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Hearing authority. The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals shall act as the
hearing authority of the Unsafe Building Law and shall conduct such hearings
and hold such powers as are provided by the state’s Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   Enforcement authority. Specific responsibility for enforcement of the
provisions of the state’s Unsafe Building Law shall rest with the city’s Code
Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, § 155.02) (Ord. G-07-05, passed 6-26-2007)
CHAPTER 156: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 157: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   In November 2020 the Unified Development Ordinance was reorganized. The
effective date of this reorganization was November 2020. The document may be
found at:
https://www.newhaven.in.gov/DocumentCenter/_View/719/New-Haven-Unified-
Development-_Ordinance-2020-PDF?bidId=
(Ord. Z-20-18, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. Z-23-19, passed 9-19-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                      Code Section
1-1-1-5                           10.04
1-1-1-7                           10.12
1-1-1-8                           10.06
1-1-4-5                           10.05
1-1-5-1                           10.11
1-1-6-1                           10.08
4-16-1                            73.20
4-33-13-5                         33.44
5-1-14-14(b)                      33.43
                                  96.57,
5-3-1                             152.01 ,
                                  152.06
5-10.1-1-1 through 5-10.1-7-2     32.36
5-11-10                           33.68
5-11-10-1.6                       33.69
5-14-3-3                          30.17
5-14-3-4(b)(12)                   30.17
5-22                              33.67
5-22-8-1                          33.67
5-22-8-1 through 5-22-8-3         33.67
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.                152.01
6-1.1-12.1-1(1)                   152.01
6-1.1-12.1-1(19)                  152.01
6-1.1-12.1-2                      152.03,
                                  152.05
6-1.1-12.1-2(b)                   152.02
6-1.1-12.1-2(c)                   152.02
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c)                 152.01,
                                  152.06
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d)                 152.01
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(e)                 152.01
6-1.1-12.1-3                      152.05
6-1.1-12.1-3(e)                   152.01
6-1.1-12.1-4.5                    152.05
6-1.1-12.1-4.8                    152.05
                                  152.01,
6-1.1-12.1-5                      152.05,
                                  152.06
6-1.1-12.1-5.3                    152.05,
                                  152.06
                                  152.01,
6-1.1-12.1-5.4                    152.05,
                                  152.06
6-1.1-12.1-5.6                    152.04
6-1.1-12.1-5.9                    152.04
6-1.1-12.1-5.9(c)                 152.04
6-1.1-12.1-9.5                    152.05
6-1.1-12.1-11.3                   152.03,
                                  152.05
6-1.1-12.1-12                     152.04
6-1.1-12.1-18(e)                  152.01
6-1.1-12.5                        152.01
6-1.1-12.5-5                      152.01
6-1.1-25                          152.02
6-3.5-10-2(c)                  34.01
6-3.5-10-2(e)                     34.01
6-3.5-11-2(c)                     34.01
6-3.5-11-2(d)                     34.02
6-7-1-30.1                        33.20
7.1 et seq.                       152.01
7.1-3-3                           152.01
7.1-3-8                           152.01
7.1-3-9-2                         119.01
7.1-3-10                          152.01
7.1-3-13                          152.01
7.1-3-31 et seq.                  96.45,
                                  96.46
7.1-3-31-5                        96.52
7.7-3-8                           152.01
8-1-34                            112.01
8-1-34-24                         112.01
8-1.5-3-4                         53.07
8-1.5-5                           53.07
8-1.5-5-6                         53.07
8-1.5-5-7                         53.08
8-1.5-5-7(c)                      53.07
8-23-30                           34.01,
                                  34.02
9-13 et seq.                      73.20
9-13-2-49.3                       73.20
9-17                              116.01
9-17-4                            73.23
9-19-10-1                         70.005
                                  73.22,
9-21-11-12                        73.25,
                                  73.26
9-21-11-13 (Repealed)             73.25
9-24-8                            73.23
9-29-5                            73.23
10-14-3 et seq.                   70.185
12-17.2                           92.085
13-1-4-1                          51.001
13-17-9-1                         91.03
14-8-2-185                        73.20
14-16-1                           73.20
14-16-1-22                        73.01
14-16-2-21(4)                     73.05
16-21                             92.085
16-22                             92.085
16-28                             92.085
20-10.1-1-2                       92.085
20-12-0.5-1                       92.085
22-9-1-4, et. seq.                130.01
22-9.5-1 et seq.                  130.01
22-9.5-3 et seq.                  130.01
22-9.5-3                          130.01
22-9.5-5                          130.01
22-9.5-6                          130.01
22-11-14-2                        91.38
22-11-14-8(a)                     91.36
25-21.8-4                         117.01
25-21.8-5                         117.01
25-21.8-6                         117.01
31-37-19-27                       131.06
                                  51.006,
                                  90.37,
34-28-5                           53.10,
                                  70.020,
                                  90.99
34-28-5-4                         51.999
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                   10.99
36-1-8-5.1                        33.42
36-4-6-5                          30.41
36-4-7-2                          32.15,
                                  32.16
36-7-4-500                        153.03
36-7-8-3                          155.01
36-7-8-5                          155.01
36-7-8-7                          155.01
36-7-9                         152.02
36-7-9-3                          155.15
36-7-10-3                         92.021
36-7-14-3                         31.04
36-7-23                           34.02
36-8-3-3                          32.16
36-8-3-20                         31.02
36-8-3.5-13                       31.18
36-8-3.5-17(f)                    31.18
36-8-3.5-18                       31.18
36-8-19-8.5                       33.51
36-9-15.5                         33.47
36-9-17                           33.33
36-9-23-31 through 36-9-23-34     51.003
36-9-30-5                         52.02
36-9-32-7(b) through 36-9-32-7(j) 33.43
36-10-3 et seq.                   31.15
36-10-3-22(b)                     31.15
37-1-14-1                         31.17
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2018 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2018 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
30.04              30.04
30.05              30.05
30.06              30.06
30.07              30.07
30.08              30.08
30.09              30.09
30.10              30.10
30.11              30.11
30.12              30.12
30.13              30.13
30.14              30.14
30.15              30.15
30.16              30.16
30.17              30.17
30.18              30.18
30.19              30.19
30.20              30.20
30.21              30.21
30.22              30.22
30.23              30.23
30.24              30.24
30.25              30.25
30.26              30.26
30.27              30.27
*30.30             30.40
*30.31             30.41
*30.32             30.42
31.01              31.01
*31.02             31.01
*31.10             31.02
*31.11             31.02
*31.12             31.02
*31.13             31.02
*31.14             31.02
*31.25             31.03
*31.31             31.04
*32.01             32.15
*32.02             32.16
*32.10             32.30
*32.11             32.31
*32.12             32.32
*32.13             32.33
*32.15             32.35
*32.16             32.36
*32.18             32.38
*32.19             32.39
*32.20             32.40
*32.21             32.41
*32.22             32.42
*33.01             33.20
*33.02             33.20
*33.03             33.20
*33.10             33.21
*33.11             33.21
*33.13             33.22
*33.15             33.23
*33.16             33.23
*33.17             33.24
*33.18             33.25
*33.25             33.65
*33.26             33.66
*33.27             33.67
*33.40             33.26
*33.42             33.27
*33.45             33.29
*33.55             33.32
*33.60             33.33
*33.61             33.33
*33.62             33.33
*33.70             33.34
*33.71             33.35
*33.72             33.36
*33.73             33.37
*33.74             33.38
*33.75             33.39
*33.80             33.40
*33.81             33.40
*33.82             33.40
*33.90             33.41
*33.91             33.41
*33.100            33.42
*33.102            33.42
*33.104            33.42
*33.106            33.42
*33.150            33.43
*33.151            33.43
*33.152            33.43
*33.153            33.43
*33.154            33.43
*33.160            33.44
*33.161            33.44
*33.162            33.44
*33.165            33.45
*33.170            33.46
*34.01             31.15
*34.02             31.15
*34.03             31.15
*34.04             31.15
*34.30             31.16
*34.60             31.17
*34.61             31.17
*34.62             31.17
*35.01             35.25
*35.02             35.26
*35.03             35.27
*35.04             35.28
*35.05             35.29
*35.06             35.30
*35.07             35.31
*35.08             35.32
*35.09             35.33
*35.10             35.34
*35.11             35.35
*35.98             35.36
35.99              35.99
*36.01             32.01
*36.02             32.02
*37.01             33.01
*37.02             33.02
*37.03             33.03
*37.10             33.04
*37.15             33.05
*37.16             33.06
*37.20             33.07
*38.01             31.18
*38.02             31.18
*38.03             31.18
50.01              50.01
50.02              50.02
50.03              50.03
50.04              50.04
50.05              50.05
50.06              50.06
*50.15             50.20
*50.16             50.21
*50.17             50.22
*50.18             50.23
*50.19             50.24,
                   50.99
*50.20             50.25
*50.21             50.26
*50.22             50.27
*50.23             50.28
*50.24             50.29,
                   50.99
*50.25             50.30
*50.26             50.31
*50.27             50.32
*50.30             50.45
*51.01             51.001
*51.02             51.002
*51.03             51.003
*51.04             51.004
*51.05             51.005
*51.06             51.006
*51.07             51.999
*51.08             51.007
*51.09             51.008
*51.10             51.009
*51.11             51.010
*51.12             51.011
*51.13             51.012
*51.14             51.013
*51.15             51.014
*51.16             51.015
*51.21             51.030
*51.22             51.031
*51.23             51.032
*51.24             51.033
*51.25             51.034
*51.26             51.035
*51.27             51.036
*51.31             51.050
*51.32             51.051
*51.33             51.052
*51.34             51.053
*51.35             51.054
*51.36             51.055
*51.37             51.056
*51.41             51.070
*51.42             51.071
*51.43             51.072
*51.44             51.073
*54.01             53.01
*54.02             53.02
*54.03             53.03
*54.04             53.04
*54.05             53.05
*54.06             53.06
*54.07             53.07
*54.08             53.08
*54.09             53.09
*54.10             53.10
*54.11             53.99
*70.01             70.001
*70.02             70.002
*70.03             70.020
*70.04             70.021
*70.05             70.999
*70.06             70.022
*70.07             70.023
*70.08             70.024
*70.09             70.025
*70.10             70.026
*70.11             70.040
*70.12             70.041
*70.13             70.042
*70.14             70.043
*70.15             70.044
*70.16             70.045
*70.17             70.046
*70.18             70.047
*70.19             70.060
*70.20             70.061
*70.21             70.062
*70.22             70.063
*70.23             70.064
*70.24             70.065
*70.25             70.066
*70.26             70.067
*70.27             70.068
*70.28             70.069
*70.29             70.070
*70.30             70.071
*70.31             70.072
*70.32             70.073
*70.33             70.074
*70.34             70.085
*70.35             70.086
*70.36             70.100
*70.37             70.101
*70.38             70.102
*70.39             70.103
*70.40             70.115
*70.41             70.130
*70.42             70.131
*70.43             70.132
*70.44             70.145
*70.45             70.146
*70.46             70.147
*70.47             70.148
*70.48             70.149
*70.49             70.160
*70.50             70.161
*70.51             70.162
*70.52             70.163
*70.53             70.164
*70.54             70.165
*70.55             70.166
*70.56             70.167
*70.57             70.168
*70.58             70.169
*70.59             70.170
*70.60             70.171
*70.61             70.172
*70.62             70.173
*70.63             70.007
*70.64             70.008
*70.65             70.006
*70.66             70.185
*70.67             70.186
*70.68             70.999
*70.69             70.004
*70.70             70.005
*70.80             70.200
*70.81             70.201
*70.82             70.999
*Ch. 71, Sch. II   Ch. 71, Sch. I
*Ch. 71, Sch. III  Ch. 71, Sch. III
*Ch. 71, Sch. IV   Ch. 71, Sch. II
*Ch. 71, Sch. V    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
*Ch. 71, Sch. VI   Ch. 71, Sch. V
*Ch. 71, Sch. VII  Ch. 71, Sch. VI
Ch. 72, Sch. I     Ch. 72, Sch. I
Ch. 72, Sch. II    Ch. 72, Sch. II
Ch. 72, Sch. III   Ch. 72, Sch. III
*Ch. 72, Sch. IIIA Ch. 72, Sch. IV
*Ch. 72, Sch. IV   Ch. 72, Sch. V
*Ch. 72, Sch. V    Ch. 72, Sch. VI
*Ch. 72, Sch. VI   Ch. 72, Sch. VII
73.01              73.01
73.02              73.02
73.03              73.03
73.04              73.04
73.05              73.05
*73.06             73.99
*74.01             70.003
*75.01             74.01
*75.02             74.02
*75.03             74.03
*75.04             74.04
*75.05             74.05
*75.06             74.06
*75.07             74.99
*76.01             73.20
*76.02             73.21
*76.03             73.22
*76.04             73.23
*76.05             73.24
*76.06             73.25
*76.07             73.26
*76.08             73.27
*76.99             73.99
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
*90.15             90.20
*90.16             90.21
*90.17             90.22
*90.18             90.23
*90.30             90.35
*90.31             90.36
*90.32             90.37
*90.33             90.38
*90.34             90.39
*90.35             90.40
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.01
91.03              91.02
*91.04             91.03,
                   91.99
*91.05             91.04
*91.10             91.15
*91.11             91.16
*91.12             91.17
*91.13             91.18
*91.14             91.19
*91.15             91.20
*91.16             91.22
*91.17             91.23
*91.18             91.99
*91.50             35.01
*91.51             35.02
*91.52             35.03
*91.53             35.04
*91.54             35.05
*91.55             35.06
*91.56             35.07
*91.57             35.08
*91.58             35.09
*91.59             35.10
*91.60             35.11
*92.01             92.001
*92.02             92.002
*92.03             92.003
*92.04             92.004
*92.05             92.005
*92.40             92.050
*92.41             92.051
*92.43             92.052
*92.44             92.053
*92.45             92.054
*92.46             92.055
*92.99             92.999
*93.01             92.020
*93.02             92.020
*93.04             92.021
*93.05             92.021
*93.08             92.021
*93.15             92.022
*93.30             92.035
*93.31             92.036
*93.32             92.037
*93.33             92.038
*93.34             92.039
*93.50             91.35
*93.51             91.36
*93.52             91.37
*93.53             91.38
*93.54             91.39
*93.60             93.50
*93.70             92.070
*93.71             92.071
*93.72             92.072
*93.73             92.073
*93.99             92.999,
                   93.99
*94.01             93.01
*94.02             93.02
*94.03             93.03
*94.04             93.04
*94.05             93.05
*94.06             93.06
*94.07             93.07
*94.08             93.08
*94.20             93.20
*94.21             93.21
*94.22             93.22
*94.30             93.35
*94.99             93.99
*95.01             94.01
*95.03             94.02
*95.04             94.03
*95.05             94.04
*95.06             94.04
*95.07             94.04
*95.08             94.04
*95.09             94.04
*95.10             94.05
*95.11             94.06
*95.12             94.07
*95.13             94.08
*95.14             94.09
*95.15             94.10
*95.16             94.11
*95.17             94.12
*95.99             94.99
*96.01             95.01
*96.02             95.02
*96.03             95.03,
                   95.99
*96.04             95.04
*96.05             95.05
*96.06             95.06
*96.07             95.07
*96.08             95.08
*96.09             95.09
*96.10             95.10
*96.11             95.11
*96.12             95.12
*96.13             95.13
*96.14             95.14
*96.15             95.15
*96.16             95.16
*97.01             92.023
*97.02             92.023
*97.99             92.999
*98.01             96.01
*98.02             96.02
*98.03             96.03
*98.10             96.15
*98.11             96.16
*98.12             96.17
*98.13             96.18
*98.14             96.19
*98.15             96.99
*98.20             96.30
*98.21             96.31
*98.22             96.32
*99.01             92.085
*99.02             92.086
*99.03             92.087
*99.04             92.999
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.99             111.99
*112.05            112.01
*112.11            112.15
*112.12            112.16
*112.13            112.17
*112.14            112.18
*112.15            112.19
*112.16            112.20
*112.17            112.21
*112.18            112.22
*112.19            112.23
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.03             113.03
113.04             113.04
113.05             113.05
113.99             113.99
114.01             114.01
114.02             114.02
114.03             114.03
114.04             114.04
114.05             114.05
114.06             114.06
114.07             114.07
114.08             114.08
114.09             114.09
114.10             114.10
114.11             114.11
114.12             114.12
114.13             114.13
114.14             114.14
114.15             114.15
114.16             114.16
114.17             114.17
114.18             114.18
114.19             114.19
114.20             114.20
114.99             114.99
115.01             115.01
115.02             115.02
115.03             115.03
115.04             115.04
115.05             115.05
115.06             115.06
115.07             115.07
115.99             115.99
116.01             116.01
116.02             116.02
116.03             116.03
116.04             116.04
117.01             117.01
117.02             117.02
117.03             117.03
117.04             117.04
117.05             117.05
117.06             117.06
117.07             117.07
117.08             117.08
117.09             117.09
117.10             117.10
117.11             117.11
117.12             117.12
117.13             117.13
117.14             117.14
117.15             117.15
117.16             117.16
117.17             117.17
*117.18            117.99
*117.19            117.18
*117.20            117.19
118.01             118.01
118.02             118.02
118.03             118.03
118.04             118.04
118.05             118.05
118.06             118.06
118.07             118.07
118.08             118.08
118.09             118.09
118.10             118.10
118.11             118.11
118.12             118.12
118.13             118.13
118.14             118.14
*118.15            118.15,
                   118.99
118.16             118.16
118.17             118.17
118.18             118.18
118.19             118.19
119.01             119.01
130.02             130.02
130.03             130.03
130.04             130.04
130.99             130.99
131.01             131.01
131.02             131.02
131.03             131.03
131.04             131.04
131.05             131.05
131.06             131.06
131.99             131.99
*132.01            132.01,
                   132.99
153.01             155.01
153.02             155.02
*155.01            155.15
*155.02            155.16
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
R-99-3   4-6-1999    Ch. 72, Sch. VI
R-00-4   11-21-2000  Ch. 71, Sch. I
R-01-1   8-7-2001    Ch. 72, Sch. I
R-01-2   8-7-2001    50.03
R-01-1   8-20-2001   Ch. 72, Sch. II
R-02-02  12-3-2002   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
R-03-1   10-21-2003  50.03
R-05-02  7-5-2005    Ch. 72, Sch. II
R-07-02  4-3-2007    50.33
R-09-01  5-5-2009    Ch. 71, Sch. I
R-09-3   7-7-2009    92.021
R-10-01  5-3-2010    Ch. 71, Sch. I
R-11-01  8-12-2011   Ch. 71, Sch. I
R-12-01  4-3-2012    Ch. 71, Sch. I
R-12-02  4-3-2012    Ch. 72, Sch. II
R-12-03  11-20-2012  Ch. 72, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
R-13-01  1-2-2013    51.016
R-13-03  3-19-2013   Ch. 72, Sch. II
R-13-04  10-15-2013  Ch. 71, Sch. V
R-15-01  8-4-2015    92.021
                     Ch. 71, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I;
R-16-02  6-7-2016    Ch. 72, Sch. III;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. IV;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. V;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
R-16-04  8-2-2016    Ch. 72, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. II
R-17-01  6-20-2017   Ch. 72, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I ;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. III ;
R-18-1   10-2-2018   Ch. 72, Sch. IV;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. V ;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
R-20-08  6-16-2020   33.09
R-20-18  8-4-2020    33.09
R-20-20  8-4-2020    33.53
R-20-21  8-4-2020    33.10
R-20-41  12-1-2020   31.19
R-22-13  1-18-2022   33.53
R-22-24  4-5-2022    33.60
R-24-27  9-3-2024    33.61
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
                       92.001,
36         2-2-1916    92.999,
                       93.35,
                       93.99
                       93.01 -
507        6-3-1925    93.07,
                       93.99
–        7-10-1925   93.02
544        3-13-1934   92.023
                       112.15 -
560        8-5-1940    112.23,
                       112.99
571        4-16-1945   130.02
577A       8-5-1946    92.999
625        5-3-1954    92.999
631        11-10-1955  31.15
                       50.22,
653        12-1-1958   50.24,
                       50.99
                       114.01 -
659        10-5-1959   114.20,
                       114.99
                       50.20 -
688        8-23-1961   50.30,
                       50.99
710        2-4-1963    114.10,
                       114.99
728        9-16-1963   30.41
G-12-64    6-9-1964    130.04
G-2-65     3-9-1965    93.08
G-7-65     7-13-1965   33.20
                       93.20 -
G-15-66    11-7-1966   93.22,
                       93.99
                       110.01 -
G-28-67    12-26-1967  110.03,
                       110.99
G-17-70    8-11-1970   50.31
                       131.01 -
G-12-71    7-13-1971   131.06,
                       131.99
G-10-72    7-11-1972   32.36
G-19-72    11-14-1972  92.002,
                       92.999
G-4-73     6-12-1973   33.21
G-14-73    11-13-1973  30.41
                       92.002,
G-1-74     2-19-1974   92.003,
                       92.999
                       95.01 -
G-8-74     6-12-1974   95.16,
                       95.99
G-10-75    7-29-1975   32.35
                       111.01 -
G-9-76     5-11-1976   111.06,
                       111.99
G-2-77     1-31-1977   31.01
G-6-67     4-11-1978   33.21
G-13-78    7-22-1978   50.32
G-9-78     9-12-1978   50.22
G-13-79    7-10-1979   92.035 -
                       92.039
G-34-79    11-13-1979  92.022
G-31-80    10-14-1980  94.01
G-81-24    12-8-1981   30.41
G-82-10    6-8-1982    31.15
G-82-11    7-27-1982   33.65
G-82-83    10-12-1982  50.20,
                       50.21
G-83-27    10-11-1983  96.01 -
                       96.03
G-84-8     2-14-1984   31.02
G-84-12    8-14-1984   92.085,
                       92.086
G-84-23    10-9-1984   31.01
                       50.20,
G-84-26    12-11-1984  50.22,
                       50.31
                       90.01 -
G-84-27    12-11-1984  90.07,
                       90.40,
                       90.99
G-85-11    5-14-1985   92.999
                       90.21 -
G-85-17    8-13-1985   90.23,
                       90.99
G-85-18    8-13-1985   96.01 -
                       96.03
                       35.25 -
G-86-2     2-11-1986   35.36,
                       35.99
                       90.35 -
G-86-3     2-11-1986   90.39,
                       90.99
G-86-6     3-11-1986   50.22
                       115.01 -
G-86-1     5-13-1986   115.07,
                       115.99
                       95.03,
G-86-7     5-13-1986   95.16,
                       95.99
G-88-3     1-12-1988   32.02
G-88-7     4-12-1988   155.01,
                       155.02
G-88-9     7-13-1988   116.01 -
                       116.04
G-88-14    9-13-1988   92.021,
                       92.999
G-89-4     2-14-1989   33.01
A-89-2     3-14-1989   33.26
G-89-5     3-14-1989   92.020,
                       92.999
G-89-6     4-11-1989   33.02
G-89-17    11-14-1989  31.18
G-90-1     2-13-1990   32.01
A-90-8     7-10-1990   32.30
A-90-11    8-14-1990   33.33
G-90-15    8-14-1990   33.40
G-90-16    8-14-1990   33.41
G-90-23    10-25-1990  30.40 -
                       30.42
G-90-27    1-8-1991    33.20
G-90-28    1-8-1991    33.21
                       30.01,
                       30.03 -
                       30.17,
                       30.19 -
G-92-1     3-10-1992   30.21,
                       30.23,
                       30.24,
                       30.26,
                       30.27
                       96.15 -
G-92-3     5-13-1992   96.19,
                       96.99
G-92-5     7-28-1992   50.45
G-92-9     7-28-1992   33.33
                       91.01,
                       91.02,
                       91.15 -
G-92-22    1-12-1993   91.20,
                       91.22,
                       91.23,
                       91.99
G-93-l     2-9-1993    30.40 -
                       30.42
                       51.001 -
                       51.011,
                       51.013,
                       51.014,
                       51.030 -
G-93-5     6-8-1993    51.036,
                       51.050 -
                       51.056,
                       51.070 -
                       51.073,
                       51.999
G-93-8     7-27-1993   33.03
G-93-9     7-27-1993   33.21
X-93-13    12-14-1993  30.40
X-94-5     4-8-1994    30.40
X-94-4     4-12-1994   30.40
Z-94-11    8-9-1994    151.002, 151.003, 151.110, 151.112
                       90.03,
G-94-8     10-24-1994  90.20,
                       92.021
G-94-18    11-22-1994  130.03,
                       130.99
X-95-1     1-24-1995   30.40
G-95-2     3-28-1995   50.01 -
                       50.06
                       117.02 -
G-95-10    7-25-1995   117.19,
                       117.99
G-95-19    12-26-1995  33.66
G-96-7     8-13-1996   32.30
G-96-8     8-13-1996   33.23
G-96-10    10-8-1996   31.18
                       92.050 -
G-96-11    10-22-1996  92.055,
                       92.999
X-97-1     1-28-1997   30.40
G-97-8     6-24-1997   33.03
G-97-13    7-8-1997    92.021
A-97-14    7-28-1997   32.35
G-97-19    10-28-1997  32.30
                       113.01 -
G-97-20    10-28-1997  113.05,
                       113.99
X-97-22    11-25-1997  30.40
X-98-5     7-14-1998   30.40
G-98-10    9-8-1998    33.67
                       32.31 -
G-98-11    9-8-1998    32.33,
                       32.38 -
                       32.41
X-98-12    10-13-1998  30.40
                       70.001 -
                       70.008,
                       70.020 -
                       70.026,
                       70.040 -
                       70.047,
                       70.060 -
                       70.073,
                       70.085,
                       70.086,
                       70.100 -
                       70.103,
                       70.115,
                       70.130 -
                       70.132,
                       70.145 -
                       70.149,
                       70.160 -
                       70.173,
                       70.185,
                       70.186,
G-00-13    12-12-2000  70.200,
                       70.201,
                       70.999;
                       Ch. 71, Sch. I;
                       Ch. 71, Sch. II;
                       Ch. 71, Sch. III;
                       Ch. 71, Sch. IV;
                       Ch. 71, Sch. V;
                       Ch. 71, Sch. VI;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. I;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. II;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. III;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. IV;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. V;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. VI;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. VII;
                       73.01 -
                       73.05,
                       73.99,
                       74.01 -
                       74.06,
                       74.99
G-01-16    1-8-2001    33.25
G-00-15    1-9-2001    117.01
                       30.02,
G-01-7     6-26-2001   30.18,
                       30.22,
                       30.25
                       51.003,
G-01-8     7-10-2001   51.012,
                       51.015
                       50.01,
G-01-9     8-14-2001   50.02,
                       50.05,
                       50.06
G-01-14    11-13-2001  33.04
G-02-1     4-9-2002    90.36,
                       90.99
                       30.02,
G-02-03    4-9-2002    30.18,
                       30.22,
                       30.25
G-02-14    9-10-2002   33.20
G-02-15    9-10-2002   70.165
G-02-16    9-24-2002   33.42
G-02-18    10-22-2002  30.40
A-03-01    2-11-2003   33.34
A-03-02    2-11-2003   33.38
A-03-03    2-11-2003   33.39
G-03-5     3-25-2003   31.04
A-03-07    4-8-2003    33.22
G-03-09    4-22-2003   32.42
G-03-11    5-13-2003   33.32
G-03-14    6-24-2003   33.43
A-03-18    9-9-2003    33.37
A-03-19    9-9-2003    33.39
G-03-30    10-14-2003  33.44
G-03-24    11-25-2003  33.27,
                       33.30
G-03-25    12-23-2003  70.165
G-03-28    12-23-2003  33.43
                       53.01 -
G-04-02    4-27-2004   53.10,
                       53.99
                       51.003,
                       51.006,
                       51.008,
–        5-3-2004    51.009,
                       51.011,
                       51.013,
                       51.015
G-04-05    6-8-2004    33.40
G-04-18    12-28-2004  70.074
G-05-02    3-22-2005   31.18
                       53.01,
                       53.03,
G-05-03    4-26-2005   53.06 -
                       53.08,
                       53.10,
                       53.99
G-05-05    5-24-2005   33.21
G-05-08    8-23-2005   33.21
G-05-12    9-27-2005   33.24
G-06-04    6-27-2006   33.27
G-06-11    1-9-2007    31.17
A-07-01    1-23-2007   33.34
                       92.085 -
G-07-03    5-9-2007    92.087,
                       92.999
G-07-04    6-26-2007   91.39,
                       92.999
G-07-05    6-26-2007   155.15,
                       155.16
A-07-06    9-11-2007   32.30
G-07-08    9-11-2007   33.05
G-07-10    11-27-2007  33.06
G-07-11    11-27-2007  33.29
G-07-12    11-27-2007  33.67
G-08-04    7-8-2008    33.05
G-08-17    1-13-2009   33.35
                       32.31 -
                       32.33,
G-09-01    2-10-2009   32.35,
                       32.36,
                       32.38 -
                       32.41
G-09-04    3-10-2009   33.45
G-09-05    3-10-2009   33.21
G-09-03    3-24-2009   119.01
A-09-07    5-12-2009   33.36
                       92.999,
G-09-13    9-22-2009   93.50,
                       93.99
                       118.01 -
G-09-15    12-14-2009  118.19,
                       118.99,
                       119.01
                       117.01,
                       117.02,
                       117.04,
                       117.06,
G-09-17    12-22-2009  117.08,
                       117.10,
                       117.12,
                       117.15,
                       117.18
G-10-01    5-25-2010   33.07
G-10-03    8-10-2010   91.37
G-10-5     8-24-2010   132.01,
                       132.99
G-11-01    5-10-2011   94.02 -
                       94.12
                       50.01,
G-10-8     5-24-2011   50.02,
                       50.05,
                       50.06
                       91.03,
G-11-02    9-13-2011   91.04,
                       91.99
G-11-06    9-27-2011   53.07
                       70.185,
G-11-08    12-27-2011  70.186,
                       70.999
G-11-09    12-27-2011  33.46
G-12-02    2-14-2012   92.005
G-12-03    2-28-2012   92.035
G-12-04    2-28-2012   70.007
G-12-06    3-13-2012   92.004,
                       92.005
G-12-07    3-27-2012   96.30 -
                       96.32
                       73.20 -
G-12-08    3-27-2012   73.27,
                       73.99
G-12-9     5-7-2012    31.15
G-12-10    7-24-2012   33.21
G-12-11    8-28-2012   35.01 -
                       35.11
G-12-12    10-3-2012   30.40
G-12-15    1-8-2013    112.01
G-24-07    3-26-2013   90.03
G-13-08    4-9-2013    31.18
G-13-10    7-23-2013   33.27
G-13-11    7-23-2013   50.22
G-13-18    11-26-2013  92.070 -
                       92.073
G-13-20-13 11-26-2013  92.999
G-14-01    2-11-2014   92.073
G-14-5     4-22-2014   51.075
G-15-01    2-10-2015   33.21
G-15-05    9-8-2015    31.18
G-15-11    12-22-2015  32.18
G-16-03    4-12-2016   95.03
G-16-04    6-14-2016   33.49
                       32.15,
                       32.16,
A-16-05    10-11-2016  32.30,
                       32.32,
                       32.36
                       52.01 -
G-16-8     11-22-2016  52.12,
                       52.99
G-16-09    12-27-2016  33.08
G-16-10    12-27-2016  33.20,
                       33.21
                       50.01,
G-17-1     2-28-2017   50.02,
                       50.05,
                       50.06
G-17-2     3-14-2017   33.50
                       51.001 -
                       51.015,
                       51.030 -
                       51.036,
G-17-4     9-12-2017   51.050 -
                       51.056,
                       51.070 -
                       51.073,
                       51.075,
                       51.999
                       32.15,
                       32.30,
A-17-08    10-24-2017  32.32,
                       32.35  -
                       32.36
                       51.003,
–        3-20-2018   51.011,
                       51.013,
                       51.075
G-18-6     4-30-2018   131.06
G-18-7     6-12-2018   Adopting Ordinance
                       10.01 -
G-18-8     6-12-2018   10.16,
                       10.99
G-18-9     6-12-2018   33.33
G-18-10    6-12-2018   95.12
                       50.20,
G-18-12    6-26-2018   50.22,
                       50.31,
                       51.001
G-18-18    11-14-2018  90.02
G-19-02    3-12-2019   33.47
G-19-03    3-12-2019   33.48
G-19-4     3-26-2019   70.075
G-19-5     3-26-2019   33.23
G-19-07    6-25-2019   33.28
G-19-10    7-9-2019    33.52
G-19-11    7-9-2019    Adopting Ordinance
G-19-13    10-8-2019   130.01,
                       130.011
G-19-14    10-8-2019   130.99
                       32.15,
A-19-18    10-22-2019  32.30,
                       32.32,
                       32.35
G-19-19    10-8-2019   33.23
                       30.01,
G-19-22    12-23-2019  30.03,
                       30.18
G-20-01    3-3-2020    152.01 -
                       152.07
G-20-05    4-7-2020    51.045 -
                       51.048
                       50.01,
                       50.02,
G-20-06    4-7-2020    50.05,
                       50.06, 
                       50.08
G-20-07    4-7-2020    32.03
G-20-10    7-21-2020   34.01,
                       34.02
G-20-12    10-6-2020   33.43
G-20-17    10-20-2020  33.23
                       153.01 -
                       153.03,
Z-20-18    11-3-2020   153.15 -
                       153.17,
                       Ch. 157
G-21-01    2-2-2021    51.075
G-21-03    2-2-2021    33.31
G-21-05    3-2-2021    53.07,
                       53.09
G-21-07    3-1-2021    33.51
G-21-08    4-6-2021    33.54
                       50.01,
G-21-09    4-6-2021    50.02,
                       50.05,
                       50.06
G-21-10    4-6-2021    51.045
G-21-11    4-6-2021    33.47
G-21-13    5-4-2021    33.55
                       90.01,
                       90.03 -
                       90.06,
                       90.08 -
G-21-15    7-30-2021   90.10,
                       90.22,
                       90.41,
                       90.42,
                       90.99
G-21-16    7-30-2021   33.30
                       113.10 -
                       113.12,
G-21-23    10-19-2021  113.20 -
                       113.26,
                       113.99
G-21-24    12-7-2021   30.03
G-21-26    12-7-2021   Ch. 71, Sch. I
G-21-29    1-4-2022    32.31,
                       32.32
G-22-04    3-15-2022   93.40
G-22-05    3-15-2022   33.05
G-22-06    3-22-2022   33.06
G-22-07    4-5-2022    33.47
G-22-10    4-19-2022   33.49
                       50.01,
G-22-12    6-7-2022    50.02,
                       50.05,
                       50.06
G-22-13    6-7-2022    51.045
G-22-17    7-5-2022    33.56
G-22-20    8-2-2022    30.40
G-22-21    8-2-2022    33.57
G-22-28    9-20-2022   33.58
G-22-32    10-18-2022  50.02
G-22-33    10-18-2022  51.074
G-22-37    12-20-2022  33.68
G-22-38    12-20-2022  33.59
G-22-39    12-20-2022  30.01
G-23-03    2-21-2023   51.045
                       50.01,
G-23-04    3-7-2023    50.02,
                       50.05,
                       50.06
G-23-10    5-16-2023   50.02
G-23-12    9-5-2023    53.11
G-23-13    9-5-2023    50.03
G-23-14    9-5-2023    50.03
G-23-15    9-5-2023    51.046
Z-23-19    9-19-2023   157.01
G-23-27    12-5-2023   97.01,
                       97.02
G-23-29    1-2-2024    33.69
                       32.15,
A-24-03    2-20-2024   32.16,
                       32.30
G-24-05    4-16-2024   31.18
G-24-06    5-6-2024    35.50
                       50.01,
G-24-08    6-4-2024    50.02,
                       50.05 -
                       50.07
G-24-09    6-4-2024    53.07
                       32.15,
A-24-10    - -2024     32.16,
                       32.30
G-24-12    8-20-2024   96.45 -
                       96.59
                       32.15,
A-24-15    9-17-2024   32.16,
                       32.30
G-24-16    9-24-2024   33.66
G-24-20    12-17-2024  91.21 -
                       91.23
G-24-22    12-17-2024  33.05
                      
 
