TOWN OF NORTH JUDSON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-04, passed 7-15-2024 and
Res. 2023-02, passed 5-15-2023
State legislation current through 2024 ALS Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
Town Council
John Rowe, Town Council President
Josh Brown, Town Council Vice-President
Linda Banks, Town Council member
Jane Ellen Felchuk, Town Council member
Eric Lewandowski, Town Council member
Officials
 
Joe Leszek     Town Manager
Justin Schramm Town Attorney
Andrew Rowe    Clerk-Treasurer
Frank Thomas   Town Marshal
Todd Jackson   Fire Chief
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No. 2023-04
AN ORDINANCE REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING ORDINANCES FOR THE INCORPORATED TOWN OF NORTH
JUDSON, STATE OF INDIANA
 
 
 
   WHEREAS, the Town Council for the Town of North Judson, State of Indiana
(the “Town Council”), is responsible for the performance of various functions
for the Town of North Judson (the “Town”); and
 
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, healthy, safety, and general
welfare of the Town and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
 
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
 
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Town has authorized a general
compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the Town of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
 
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Town and for the immediate preservation of public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town that this Ordinance take effect at an early date.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Town Council of the Town of North
Judson, Indiana, that the following Ordinance Revising, Amending, Restating,
Codifying and Compiling Certain Existing Ordinances for the Incorporated Town
of North Judson, Indiana, is hereby adopted as follows:
 
Section I.
Adoption
 
   1.   The general ordinances of the Town as revised, amended, restated,
codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute
the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of North Judson.”
 
   2.   Such Code of Ordinances shall be made available at normal business
hours at the Town Hall for the Town of North Judson.
 
   3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
Ordinance, except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real
or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of
land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places, nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary
or special nature or pertaining to such subjects not contained in or covered by
the Code.
 
   4.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section II,
and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
Ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
 
Section II.
Effective Date and Repeal of Conflicts
 
   1.   This Ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after notice of
the adoption shall have been published in a paper as described in Indiana Code
§ 5-3-1-4.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF NORTH JUDSON, INDIANA,
THIS 1st DAY OF MAY 2023.
 
 
THE NORTH JUDSON, INDIANA, TOWN COUNCIL
 
APPROVED:                        OPPOSED:
 
/s/                                                                          
John Rowe, President                  John Rowe, President
 
/s/
                                                                                 
Josh Brown, Vice-President               Josh Brown, Vice-President
 
/s/
                                                                                 
James Young, Council Member            James Young, Council Member
 
/s/
                                                                                 
JanelEllen Felchuk, Council Member         Jane Ellen Felchuk, Council Member
 
/s/
                                                                                 
Linda Banks, Council Member            Linda Banks, Council Member
 
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
/s/
Andrew Rowe, Clerk - Treasurer
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the Town of North
Judson, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into
component codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated
as the “North Judson Town Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,”
“codified ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being
moved for three days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the property owner or persons in control of the property for more
than 48 hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperative and left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance, if the
vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or his, her, or
their agent within 20 days of its removal; and/or
         (g)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare, which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and not less than 20 wide feet or more
than 30 feet wide.
      AUTOMOBILE SCRAP YARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap
metal processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
      BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting or
intercepting street and railroad right-of-way or waterway.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line nearest the front and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front of
buildings and structures and the front lot line.
      BUREAU. The Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      CODE. Whenever the term “CODE” or “THIS CODE” is referred to without
further qualification, it means the Town Code of North Judson, Indiana, as
designated in §
10.01.
      COMMISSION. The North Judson Plan Commission.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided herein shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last. If the last day is a Sunday, it shall be excluded and the next day shall
be included. Words used in the past or present tense include the future tense
as well as past and present.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Starke County, Indiana, unless otherwise noted.
      EXCAVATION. The act or site of digging, hollowing out, moving, or removal
of earth.
      FISCAL BODY. The Town Council of the Town of North Judson.
      GENDER. Words used in the masculine gender shall be construed to include
feminine and neuter.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
      MASTER PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development
of North Judson, prepared by the Commission and legally adopted.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the terms “swear” and “sworn” shall
be equivalent to the terms “affirm” and “affirmed.”
      OFFICER. The Town Marshal or Town Deputy Marshal, or any other officer as
defined by I.C. 9-22-1-2 that may be so authorized by further resolution of the
Town Council.
      OWNER.   
         (1)   As applied to land or buildings, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant
by the entirety of the whole or part of such building or land.
         (2)   As applied to any vehicle, shall mean the last known record
titleholder of a vehicle, according to the records of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
      PARTS. The term “parts” as applied to any vehicle, shall mean all
components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a complete vehicle.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except for real property, as
defined herein.
      PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
      PLURAL, SINGULAR. Words importing the SINGULAR shall include the PLURAL
and words importing the PLURAL shall include the SINGULAR.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      PUBLIC GATHERING. Any event or occasion held to which members of the
general public are invited to attend for any reason, including but not limited
to parades, carnivals, and festivals.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, schoolyard,
or open space adjacent thereto, and any lake or stream.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, sidewalk,
park, or other municipal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. Such time only as may be necessary for the prompt
execution of a duty or the prompt compliance with a notice.
      RUBBISH. Discarded matter, including but not limited to ashes, cans,
metal, glass, crockery, dirt, sweepings, boxes, lumber, wood, leaves, grass,
lawn waste, weeds, paper, plastic, and litter, and excepting trees and large
debris from construction or demolition of buildings.
      SHALL and MAY. The term “shall” is mandatory and the term “may” is
permissive.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, including for use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SIGNATURE. The written, signed name of a person or agent of an entity,
including the mark of a person who cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare, whether designated as a street, highway,
parkway, road, avenue, lane, boulevard, or however otherwise designated, 50
feet or more in width between property lines, which affords principal means of
vehicular access to abutting property.
      SUBDIVISION. A division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or
more lots or other divisions of land for the purpose, immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership, or development, including all changes in street or lot
lines. Division of land not involving any new street or easement of access
shall not be interpreted as a SUBDIVISION. The term includes resubdivision; and
when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or
to the land subdivided.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any present or future right in real estate
susceptible of being affected in a substantial way by action of another person,
including equitable interests of a contract purchaser.
      TENANT. Any person holding a written or oral lease of a building or land,
or who occupied the whole or part of such building or land, either alone or
with others.
      TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. The incorporated portions of North Judson,
Indiana.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the master plan which sets forth the
location, alignment, and dimensions of existing and proposed public streets,
highways, and other thoroughfares.
      TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving, removing, and
disabiling vehicles and, once removed, stores or impounds the vehicles.
      TOWN. The Town of North Judson, Starke County, Indiana.
      VISIBLE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY. A vehicle which can be seen from public
property and includes vehicles which have been covered by a temporary covering
that allows the form and outline of the vehicle to remain visible from public
property.
      VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT. A department or association organized for the
purpose of answering fire alarms, extinguishing fires, and providing other
emergency services, the majority of members of which receive no compensation or
nominal compensation for their services.
      VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER. A firefighter:
         (a)   Who, as a result of a written application, has been elected or
appointed to membership in a volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Who has executed a pledge to faithfully perform, with or without
nominal compensation, the work related duties assigned and orders given to the
firefighter by the chief of the volunteer fire department or an officer of the
volunteer fire department, including orders or duties involving education and
training as prescribed by the volunteer fire department or the state; and
         (c)   Whose name has been entered on a roster of volunteer
firefighters that is kept by the volunteer fire department and that has been
approved by the proper officers of the unit.
      WARD. District.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a reasonable
time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall
be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt performance of the
act or the giving of the notice. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last. If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be
excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §    ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine, which shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Should it become necessary for the town to take legal action to
collect any fees or fines or enforce any section of this code, the town shall
be entitled to recovery of all attorney’s fees and court costs.
(Prior Code, § 1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.    PUBLIC SAFETY
      
36.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
37.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
Governing Body
   
30.01   Powers of Town Council
   
30.02   Election of Town Council President
   
30.03   Quorum
   
30.04   Appointment of special committees
   
30.05   Legislative authority of Town Council
   
30.06   Authority of Town Council to determine salaries
   
30.07   Management and direction
Ordinance Procedures
   
30.20   Change of procedural rules
   
30.21   Ordinances and resolutions
   
30.22   Passing by unanimous consent
   
30.23   Reading of ordinance
   
30.24   Recommitting of proposed ordinance
   
30.25   Signing of ordinance
   
30.26   Casting of tie-breaking vote
   
30.27   Recordation of ordinances
   
30.28   Proof of publication
   
30.29   Effective date of ordinances
   
30.30   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
30.31   Repeal not to revive former ordinance
Council Meetings
   
30.45   Regular Council meetings
   
30.46   Order of business
   
30.47   Presentation of motions
   
30.48   Speaking by Council member
   
30.49   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.50   Violation of rules of meeting procedure
   
30.51   Special meetings
GOVERNING BODY
§ 30.01 POWERS OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The powers of the Town Council include the power to:
   (A)   Elect a Town Council President;
   (B)   Purchase and hold real estate necessary for carrying out town
functions;
   (C)   Organize fire companies and provide equipment;
   (D)   Determine what constitutes a public nuisance and provide for its
abatement;
   (E)   Provide for a town animal control facility;
   (F)   Prohibit gambling and other conduct the Town Council deems disorderly;
   (G)   Regulate salespersons, merchants, itinerant vendors, street auctions,
and rummage sales;
   (H)   Establish and regulate markets, and build market houses;
   (I)   Lay, open, pave, and maintain streets, alleys, sewers, and sidewalks;
   (J)   Build and repair municipal structures;
   (K)   Appoint a Street Commissioner and Fire Chief, or assign such duties to
a Town Marshal of the Town Council’s choosing;
   (L)   Regulate rail travel within the town;
   (M)   Regulate travel upon streets and thoroughfares;
   (N)   Require lighting of railroad crossings;
   (O)   Ensure public property of the town;
   (P)   Purchase and maintain cemeteries;
   (Q)   Plant trees and acquire and maintain land for public park purposes;
   (R)   Levy taxes within statutory limitations, subject to review by the
County Board of Tax Adjustment and the State Board of Tax Commissioners;
   (S)   Build and maintain schools and educational facilities;
   (T)   Appoint a Town Attorney who serves at the pleasure of the Town
Council;
   (U)   Appoint a Marshal who serves at the pleasure of the Town Council;
   (V)   Provide recreational facilities for the town;
   (W)   Codify and publish town ordinances;
   (X)   Establish a town drainage district upon petition;
   (Y)   Establish a Board of Recreation to conduct playgrounds and
recreational centers;
   (Z)   Rent or lease parklands to individuals or organizations for the
purposes of constructing, maintaining, and operating a public swimming pool;
   (AA)   Create a plan commission to promote orderly development of its
governmental units and environs;
   (BB)   Contract with owners of real estate for the construction of storm,
sanitary, or combination sewers within the town or within four miles of its
corporate limits;
   (CC)   Determine the salaries of the Council members, the Clerk-Treasurer,
and Town Marshal;
   (DD)   Censure or otherwise punish any Council member who violates
provisions of this code or other laws;
   (EE)   Appoint a Cemetery Superintendent;
   (FF)   Appoint a Poundmaster for the impoundment of animals within a town-
funded or town-run facility;
   (GG)   Erect stop signs, yield signs, and parking signs; and
   (HH)   Any and all other powers pursuant to state and federal law.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of legislative body, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
   Town Council; President, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 30.02 ELECTION OF TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   At the first meeting of the Town Council after the annual election, the Town
Council members-elect shall elect by majority vote one of their members as Town
Council President.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
Statutory reference:
   President of legislative body, selection, see I.C. 36-5-2-7
§ 30.03 QUORUM.
   Not less than two members of the Town Council shall constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum determined, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.2
§ 30.04 APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Town Council President may appoint committees for special purposes.
These committees shall expire when the purpose for which they were appointed
has been accomplished, or at such time as the Town Council deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 2-28)
§ 30.05 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the power to make and establish such by-laws,
ordinances, and regulations as are not repugnant to the laws of the state and
as are necessary to carry into effect the statutes of the state and the
necessary governmental functions, and to repeal, alter, or amend the same as it
shall seem to require.
(Prior Code, § 2-29)
§ 30.06 AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL TO DETERMINE SALARIES.
   The Town Council shall determine the salaries of the officers and employees
of the town and may by majority vote of all the members change said salaries at
any time, consistent with state statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-30)
Cross reference:
   Controls over salary administration, see §
37.36, Control environment
Statutory reference:
   Compensation for officers and employees, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 30.07 MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTION.
   Any and all persons appointed to office by the Town Council shall serve
strictly at the pleasure of the Town Council. Said appointees shall serve under
the Town Council’s general management and direction.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
ORDINANCE PROCEDURES
§ 30.20 CHANGE OF PROCEDURAL RULES.
   The Town Council at its discretion and by majority vote may change, alter,
or amend any procedural rule contained herein, except that the same shall not
occur at the same meeting during which said change, amendment, or alteration is
submitted to the Town Council for consideration.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
§ 30.21 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   All ordinances, orders, or resolutions shall be introduced by a member of
the Town Council, or by any committee of the Town Council, or by any officer or
member of an administrative department created by the Town Council, and all
ordinances upon introduction shall be consecutively numbered.
(Prior Code, § 2-306)
§ 30.22 PASSING BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT.
   No ordinance shall be passed on the same day or at the same time that it is
introduced, except in specific emergency cases and by unanimous consent
accompanied by a motion to suspend the rules, and then only in case there are
present and voting at least two-thirds of all Town Council members-elect.
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
Statutory reference:
   Majority vote, two-thirds’ vote, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.4
   Unanimous consent of members present, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.8
§ 30.23 READING OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Every ordinance introduced before the Town Council shall be read three
times before its passage, but no ordinance shall be read the third time at the
same meeting at which it is introduced, except by unanimous consent and then
only in case there are present and voting at least two-thirds of the members-
elect.
   (B)   When an ordinance is introduced to the Town Council, it shall be read
by title, and whoever is reading the ordinance shall state, “This is the first
reading of the ordinance; if there be no objection it will go on to the second
reading.” If no objection be made or a motion to reject fails, then the
ordinance shall go to its second reading without question. The second reading
of an ordinance shall be in full, except by unanimous consent, and then only in
case there are present and voting at least two-thirds of the members-elect, the
second reading may be by title only. Whoever is conducting the second reading
shall state, “This is the second reading of the ordinance.” The third reading
of an ordinance shall be by title. A motion for passage must be made and
seconded for a vote to be taken.
   (C)   It shall be a majority vote of all of the members-elect of the Town
Council to pass an ordinance. In the event that an ordinance is considered on
the same day or at the same meeting at which it is introduced, a two-thirds
vote of all elected members is required to pass.
(Prior Code, § 2-308) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 30.24 RECOMMITTING OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE.
   A proposed ordinance may be recommitted at any time before passage.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
§ 30.25 SIGNING OF ORDINANCE.
   Every ordinance, order, or resolution of the Town Council shall, upon its
passage, be enrolled, attested, and signed by the Clerk-Treasurer and presiding
officer, and a record shall be signed by all Town Council members present.
(Prior Code, § 2-310)
§ 30.26 CASTING OF TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall cast the tie-breaking vote when the vote cast by
the Town Council members results in a tie.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
Statutory reference:
   Ex officio member for casting tie-breaking vote, see I.C. 36-5-2-8
§ 30.27 RECORDATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Town Council shall be recorded within a
reasonable time by the Clerk-Treasurer in a book of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
Statutory reference:
   Recording of adopted ordinance, presumptive evidence, see I.C. 36-5-2-10.2
§ 30.28 PROOF OF PUBLICATION.
   The original shall be filed in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and due proof of
publication of all ordinances requiring publication, by the affidavit of the
printer or publisher, shall be procured by the Clerk-Treasurer and attached
thereto, or written and attested thereto, or written and attested upon the face
of such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-313)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of ordinance, order or resolution, publication, see I.C. 36-5-2-10
§ 30.29 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Town Council and requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless therein
otherwise expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take
effect from their passage and upon being signed and attested to, unless
otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-314)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of ordinance, order or resolution, publication, see I.C. 36-5-2-10
§ 30.30 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Wherever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, a part of an ordinance thus repealed or
modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying same, when such publication shall be required to give
effect thereto.
   (B)   When such publication is not required, the repealing or modifying
ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage, unless therein otherwise
expressly provided; but no suit, proceeding, right, fine, forfeiture, or
penalty instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued, under any ordinance
previous to its repeal, shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged,
but may be prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered, as fully as if such ordinance
had continued in force unless it shall be therein otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-315)
§ 30.31 REPEAL NOT TO REVIVE FORMER ORDINANCE.
   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision shall
be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former
ordinance, clause, or provision unless therein so expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-316)
COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 30.45 REGULAR COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meeting time for the Town Council shall be the first and
third Mondays of each month, at such hours as the Town Council may direct from
time to time. Notice of regular meetings shall be posted consistent with
federal and state statute.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time, and place of any meetings, executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting, shall be given at least
48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) before the meeting.
   (C)   Public notice shall be given by the Town Council by:
      (1)   Posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council or, if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held; and
      (2)   Delivering notice to all news media which deliver, by January 1, an
annual written request for such notices for the next succeeding calendar year
to the Town Council. The Town Council shall give notice by one of the following
methods:
         (a)   Depositing the notice in the United States mail with postage
prepaid;
         (b)   Transmitting the notice by electronic mail; or
         (c)   Transmitting the notice by facsimile (fax).
(Prior Code, § 2-336)
Statutory reference:
   Public notice of meetings, see I.C. 5-14-1.5-5
§ 30.46 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The Town Council shall take up the following line of business in the order
hereinafter mentioned, unless the Town Council by a majority vote suspends the
rules:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Reading of the minutes of previous meetings;
   (C)   Reception of petitions and remonstrances;
   (D)   Miscellaneous;
   (E)   Reports from standing and special committees;
   (F)   Unfinished business;
   (G)   New business;
   (H)   Reading and referring claims and bills; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 2-337)
§ 30.47 PRESENTATION OF MOTIONS.
   When a motion has been made and seconded, the President shall state it, or
if in writing cause it to be read by the Clerk-Treasurer aloud, before debate
shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 2-338)
§ 30.48 SPEAKING BY COUNCIL MEMBER.
   When a Council member speaks, he, she, or they shall first address the
President. Upon being recognized, he, she, or they shall confine himself,
herself, or themself to the question before the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-339)
§ 30.49 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The rules contained in Robert’s Rules of Order Revised, 2020 (Twelfth)
Edition, as amended shall govern except where inconsistent with standing rules,
town code, or state statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-340)
§ 30.50 VIOLATION OF RULES OF MEETING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If any Town Council member in speaking or any other manner violates
the rules of the Town Council, the President shall immediately call that member
to order.
   (B)   Upon being called to order, that member shall immediately stop said
violation and not be at liberty to proceed unless by consent of a majority of
the remaining Town Council members.
   (C)   Any Town Council member who is standing upon being called to order
shall immediately take his, her, or their seat.
   (D)   The remaining Town Council members by majority vote may censure or
otherwise punish a member who violates a meeting procedure.
(Prior Code, § 2-341)
§ 30.51 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Special meetings may be convened at any time other than the time
fixed for regular meetings upon call of the Town Council President or a
majority of the Town Council members.
      (2)   If a meeting is called to deal with an emergency involving actual
or threatened injury to person or property, or actual or threatened disruption
of the governmental activity under the jurisdiction of the public agency by any
event, then the time requirements of notice under state statute shall not
apply, but:
         (a)   News media which have requested notice of meetings must be given
the same notice as is given to the members of the Town Council; and
         (b)   The public must be notified by posting a copy of the notice
according to state statute.
   (B)   (1)   The call for a special meeting shall be in the form of a written
or printed notice and sealed with the town seal.
      (2)   The notice of call shall be signed by the Town Council President
when made by him, her, or them and signed by the Town Council members when made
by them. In either case, the notice shall be countersigned by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (3)   The notice of call shall clearly set forth the nature of the
business to be transacted at the special meeting.
   (C)   The notice of call for a special meeting shall be served by the Town
Council President, the Town Marshal, or the Marshal’s Deputy as follows:
      (1)   By reading same to and within the hearing of all the Town Council
members present in the town at the time such call is made;
      (2)   By leaving a copy thereof at any Town Council member’s last known
and usual place of residence;
      (3)   By acknowledgment thereof by the Town Council member of said
notice; or
      (4)   The notice shall be served a reasonable time before the hour set
for such meetings so that by reasonable diligence the Town Council members can
reach the meeting place at the time set.
   (D)   At any special meeting, the Town Council shall be limited to transact
business set forth in the notice of call, unless it is business of which notice
by publication is not required.
(Prior Code, § 2-342)
Statutory reference:
   Public notice of meetings, see I.C. 5-14-1.5-5
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Elections
   
31.01   Town election timing
   
31.02   Wards
   
31.03   Elected officers
   
31.04   Nomination of officers
   
31.05   Town Council election
   
31.06   Town Council length of term
Specific Officials and Employees
   
31.20   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.21   Town Marshal
   
31.22   Town Superintendent
   
31.23   Town Manager
   
31.24   Assistant Town Superintendent
ELECTIONS
§ 31.01 TOWN ELECTION TIMING.
   Town elections shall be held in odd years in which election for county,
state, and national elections are not held.
(Prior Code, § 2-19)
§ 31.02 WARDS.
   Wards are established by the Town Council and may not number more than seven
or less than three.
(Prior Code, § 2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Town legislative body districts, changes, see I.C. 36-5-2-4.2
§ 31.03 ELECTED OFFICERS.
   The elected officers of the town are “at-large” Council members and a Clerk-
Treasurer for the town at-large. The number of Town Council members for the
town shall be five, all of which shall be considered at-large members, and the
first additional Town Council members shall be appointed by the current Town
Council consistent with I.C. 3-13-9-4. Two Council member positions are to have
a four-year term concurrent with the county’s election, and three Council
member positions are to retain the four-year term concurrent with the municipal
elections.
(Prior Code, § 2-21) (Ord. 2012-07, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 31.04 NOMINATION OF OFFICERS.
   Nominations for town officers are made at the town political conventions
which must be held before the last Saturday in August in the year in which the
town officials are to be elected.
(Prior Code, § 2-22)
§ 31.05 TOWN COUNCIL ELECTION.
   One Council member shall be elected from each district but shall be chosen
by vote of the entire town.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Representation by district, at-large or both, see I.C. 36-5-2-5
§ 31.06 TOWN COUNCIL LENGTH OF TERM.
   Council members are elected for four-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Term of office of members, see I.C. 36-5-2-3
SPECIFIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.20 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected for the town at-large and shall
be chosen by vote of the entire town.
(Prior Code, § 2-74)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is elected for a four-year term.
(Prior Code, § 2-75)
   (C)   The duties of the Clerk-Treasurer are to:
      (1)   Maintain custody of the records, books, and papers of the Town
Council;
      (2)   Issue and maintain records of licenses;
      (3)   Record the actions and proceedings of the Town Council;
      (4)   Maintain custody of the town seal;
      (5)   Administer oaths and take depositions;
      (6)   Maintain custody and record of the town funds, including but not
limited to funds derived from the sale of cemetery lots and the like; and
      (7)   Maintain records of all permits.
(Prior Code, § 2-76)
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to make payments of
claims in advance of Town Council approval of the following types of expenses
provided that the Town Council confirm the disbursement at the next regular
Town Council meeting at which confirming payments are considered. Any and all
claims allowed to be paid pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12 are as follows:
      (1)   The legislative body of a town may adopt an ordinance allowing
money to be disbursed under this section for lawful town purposes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-11-10, with the prior written approval of
the board having jurisdiction over allowance of the claim, a town fiscal
officer may make claim payments in advance of a board allowance for the
following types of expenses if the town legislative body has adopted an
ordinance under division (D)(1) above:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
            1.   The United States government; or
            2.   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
         (b)   License fees or permit fees;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
         (e)   Federal grant programs if:
            1.   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
            2.   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
         (f)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (g)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
         (h)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
         (i)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
         (j)   Payroll;
         (k)   State, federal, or county taxes;
         (l)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
or
         (m)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
      (3)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer.
      (4)   The town legislative body or the board having jurisdiction over the
allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the body’s or
board’s next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of
the expense.
      (5)   All payments shall be supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill
with a certification by the Fiscal Officer (department manager) and will be
presented in the docket at the upcoming Council meeting.
      (6)   Nothing herein is intended to relieve the Clerk-Treasurer or the
Town Council of his, her, or their responsibilities and obligations generally
required with respect to invoices, approval of invoices, or disbursement of
funds by the laws of the state and the rules and regulations of the supervising
agencies thereof.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 3-21-2016)
Statutory references:
   Clerk and fiscal officer, see I.C. 36-5-6-2
   Duties of Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-2-8
   Election of Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-6-4
   Powers and duties, see I.C. 36-5-6-6
   Residency, term of office, see I.C. 36-5-6-3
§ 31.21 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Marshal (hereinafter “the Marshal”) is appointed by the Town
Council to enforce the by-laws and ordinances of the town. The Marshal shall
serve at the pleasure of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-96)
   (B)   The Marshal may appoint Deputy Marshals upon authorization by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-97)
   (C)   The duties of the Marshal are to:
      (1)   Enforce the town and state traffic regulations;
      (2)   Investigate all traffic accidents and prepare reports thereabout;
      (3)   Assist the Town Council in the development and administration of
traffic laws;
      (4)   Enforce and assist in the enforcement of all other town, state, and
federal laws and regulations; and
      (5)   Impound cats, dogs, and ferrets found running at-large.
(Prior Code, § 2-98)
   (D)   The powers of the Marshal are to:
      (1)   Issue tickets and make arrests for violations of any town, state,
and federal law or regulation;
      (2)   Impound vehicles as necessary;
      (3)   Slay any cat, dog, or ferret that cannot be safely impounded
because of its fierce, vicious, or dangerous behavior;
      (4)   Monitor permits issued by the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (5)   Enforce permit and license requirements; and
      (6)   Serve as the town’s primary peacekeeping official, as directed by
the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-99)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment, compensation, see I.C. 36-5-7-2
   Deputy Marshals, see I.C. 36-5-7-6
   Powers and duties, see I.C. 36-5-7-4
§ 31.22 TOWN SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Town Superintendent is appointed by the Town Council to manage the
public facilities that make up the town. The Town Superintendent shall serve at
the pleasure of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-127)
   (B)   The duties of the Town Superintendent shall include:
      (1)   Responsibility and direct control, operation, and maintenance of
the municipal water and sewer facilities;
      (2)   Responsibility and direct control, operation, and maintenance of
all other town property, improvements, and equipment; and
      (3)   Duties customarily assumed by a Town Superintendent of a similarly
sized and situated community.
(Prior Code, § 2-128)
   (C)   The Town Superintendent’s salary shall be in an amount as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-129)
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 5-8-1992)
§ 31.23 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The position of Town Manager is created.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall be an individual who is chosen by the voting
members of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall fulfill all duties and responsibilities as
prescribed and found within I.C. 36-5-5-8 as well as the job description for
the Town Manager and any duties assigned by the majority of the Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall be an at-will employee, serve at the pleasure
of the Town Council, and be directly accountable to the Town Council, and the
Town Council shall have the right to terminate the Town Manager at any time,
without cause.
   (E)   In accordance with I.C. 36-5-5-5, the Town Manager must, in the manner
prescribed by I.C. 5-4-1, execute a bond for the faithful performance of the
Town Manager’s duties.
   (F)   The Town Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and
will have the power and duty to carry out all duties and responsibilities
specified by this section and by applicable Indiana law.
   (G)   The Town Council will affix an annual salary for the position of Town
Manager in the annual salary ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-15-2024)
§ 31.24 ASSISTANT TOWN SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There is created the position of Assistant Town Superintendent.
   (B)   Only those individuals who have been employed by the town for a
minimum of one year, in their respective capacities, are eligible to apply for
this position.
   (C)   Appointment to the position of Assistant Town Superintendent shall be
made by the Town Council, taking into consideration the recommendation of the
Town Superintendent.
   (D)   In addition to the employee’s regular pay, the appointed Assistant
Town Superintendent shall receive $0.25 additional compensation per hour, paid
in accordance with the town’s payroll schedule.
   (E)   The Assistant Town Superintendent must hold, and keep current, the
following certifications, in order to be eligible for appointment to this
position:
      (1)   DS license;
      (2)   Class WT3 certification;
      (3)   Pesticide certification;
      (4)   Class 2 Wastewater certification.
   (F)   (1)   Additional responsibilities shall include, but will no be
limited to:
         (a)   Being “on-call” and carrying the town-provided cellular
telephone when the Town Superintendent is sick, on vacation, taking personal
time off, or is otherwise not able to be “on-call,” and/or fulfill the duties
of his or her office.
         (b)   Assisting the Town Superintendent with his or her current
duties, if so requested by the Town Council.
      (2)   This list is not exhaustive, and additional duties and
responsibilities may be further enumerated or hereinafter provided in the
employee handbook, or by an amended resolution.
(Res. 2018-08, passed 12-27-2018)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Department of Economic Development; Commission
   
32.001   Creation of Department
   
32.002   Issuance of bonds; fees
   
32.003   Representation leading to attorney conflict of interest
Economic Development Commission
   
32.015   Members
   
32.016   Term of members
   
32.017   Filling vacancies
   
32.018   Compensation
   
32.019   Annual organization
   
32.020   Adoption of by-laws
   
32.021   Conflict of interest
Park and Recreation Department
   
32.035   Creation of Department
   
32.036   Composition of Board
   
32.037   Terms of Board members
   
32.038   Election of Board officers
   
32.039   Authority of Vice-President
   
32.040   Authority of Board
   
32.041   Board budget
Emergency Management and Disaster Preparedness Council
   
32.055   Creation of Council
   
32.056   Council membership
   
32.057   Council powers and duties
   
32.058   Times for meetings
Department of Redevelopment
   
32.070   Title
   
32.071   Board composition
   
32.072   Member qualifications
   
32.073   Duties
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; COMMISSION
§ 32.001 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   A Department of Economic Development is hereby created as a department in
the town, which shall be known as the North Judson Department of Economic
Development, which department shall be controlled and governed by the
commission known as the “North Judson Economic Development Commission.”
(Prior Code, § 2-181) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Economic development departments and commissions, see I.C. 36-7-12-4
§ 32.002 ISSUANCE OF BONDS; FEES.
   (A)   Any person whose request for the issuance of Economic Development
Commission Revenue Bonds has been successful and for whom such bonds have been
issued, shall pay a fee, according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified,
from time to time, by the Town Council, and made available for public
inspection, in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, payable from bond proceeds, to the
town.
   (B)   Such fee shall be in addition to the reimbursement of any costs
incurred by the town in the issuance of bonds.
(Prior Code, § 2-182) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Commission bonding powers, see I.C. 36-7-12-18.5
§ 32.003 REPRESENTATION LEADING TO ATTORNEY CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   If an attorney represents an economic development commission, neither he,
she, or they, nor a member of his, her, or their firm or professional
corporation may also represent an applicant for a bond issue from the
Commission. A person who violates this section commits a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on legal representative, see I.C. 36-7-12-27.5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 32.015 MEMBERS.
   The North Judson Economic Development Commission shall consist of three
members as follows:
   (A)   One Commission member shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council;
   (B)   One Commission member shall be nominated by the Town Council; and
   (C)   One Commission member shall be nominated by the County Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Towns, commission members, appointment, see I.C. 36-7-12-6
§ 32.016 TERM OF MEMBERS.
   Appointees shall serve four-year terms. Each term expires on February 1 of
the appropriate years.
(Prior Code, § 2-202) (Ord. of 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Commission members, successors in office, see I.C. 36-7-12-9
§ 32.017 FILLING VACANCIES.
   Any vacancies occurring on the Commission shall be filled by appointment by
the authority having made the appointment in which the vacancy occurs and such
appointment shall be made for the completion of any unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Commission members, vacancies, see I.C. 36-7-12-10
§ 32.018 COMPENSATION.
   Commissioners shall serve without compensation but the Town Council may
provide in the Economic Development Department budget for reimbursement of
travel, telephone, and other expenses incurred by the Commissioners in the
performance of his, her, or their duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Commission members, expenses and per diem, see I.C. 36-7-12-15
§ 32.019 ANNUAL ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall hold reorganization meetings during February of
each year and the Commission and its members shall have all the powers and
duties imposed by statute and this subchapter and by amendments to either such
statute or ordinance.
   (B)   The Commission shall, at the reorganization meeting, elect the
following persons who shall immediately undertake the duties imposed upon such
Commissioners by law:
      (1)   A President;
      (2)   A Vice-President; and
      (3)   A Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Commission members, organizational meetings, see I.C. 36-7-12-12
§ 32.020 ADOPTION OF BY-LAWS.
   The Commission may adopt such bylaws and rules as are not prohibited by law
and as are found desirable to facilitate the conduct of its business and the
accomplishment of its purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-206) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Commission members, rules, meetings, see I.C. 36-7-12-13
§ 32.021 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Any Commissioner having a financial interest in, or having been
employed by, any firm or corporation contracting or negotiating with the
commission shall disclose his, her, or their interest to the Commission and
such disclosures shall be made a part of the records of the Commission.
   (B)   Any contract or agreement in which a Commissioner has a financial
interest or any contract or agreement with any firm or corporation in which a
Commissioner has direct financial interest shall be void from its inception
unless the nature of that financial interest has been made a part of the record
of the Commission.
   (C)   No Commissioner shall vote on any matter in which he, she, or they has
a financial interest.
(Prior Code, § 2-207) (Ord. passed 1-19-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Commission members, pecuniary interests, see I.C. 36-7-12-16
PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
§ 32.035 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   Under the provisions of the Indiana Code, there is hereby created a
Department of Park and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 2-220) (Ord. 86-3, passed 5-21-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal board, membership, see I.C. 36-10-3-4
§ 32.036 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   (A)   A Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of four members
appointed by the Town Council on the basis of his, her, or their interest in
and knowledge of parks and recreation.
   (B)   No more than two members shall be on the same political party.
(Prior Code, § 2-221) (Ord. 86-3, passed 5-21-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal board, membership, see I.C. 36-10-3-4
§ 32.037 TERMS OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   Each new appointment shall be made by the Town Council for a term of
four years.
   (B)   All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his, her, or their successor is appointed.
   (C)   If an appointment for a new term is not made by the Town Council by
the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term.
   (D)   If a vacancy occurs, the Town Council shall appoint a new member for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-222) (Ord. 86-3, passed 5-21-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Board of park and recreation, see I.C. 36-10-3-5
§ 32.038 ELECTION OF BOARD OFFICERS.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and Vice-President.
   (B)   The Board may select a secretary either from within or without its own
membership.
(Prior Code, § 2-223) (Ord. 86-3, passed 5-21-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Board of park and recreation, meetings, see I.C. 36-10-3-8
§ 32.039 AUTHORITY OF VICE-PRESIDENT.
   The Vice-President shall have authority to act as the President of the Park
and Recreation Board during the absence or disability of the President.
(Prior Code, § 2-224) (Ord. 86-3, passed 5-21-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Board of park and recreation, meetings, see I.C. 36-10-3-8
§ 32.040 AUTHORITY OF BOARD.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition, the Park and Recreation Board shall have all the powers and duties
available under the Indiana Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-225) (Ord. 86-3, passed 5-21-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Board of park and recreation, duties, see I.C. 36-10-3-10
   Powers, see I.C. 36-10-3-11
§ 32.041 BOARD BUDGET.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other departments of city government as prescribed by the
State Board of Accounts. The Park and Recreation Board may accept gifts,
donations, and subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-226) (Ord. 86-3, passed 5-21-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Board of park and recreation, duties, see I.C. 36-10-3-10
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS COUNCIL
§ 32.055 CREATION OF COUNCIL.
   The Town Emergency Management and Disaster Preparedness Council is hereby
created.
(Prior Code, § 2-246) (Ord. passed 9-16-1963)
§ 32.056 COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP.
   The Town Emergency Management and Disaster Preparedness Council shall
consist of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-247) (Ord. passed 9-16-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency Management and Disaster Law, see I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 32.057 COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The North Judson Emergency Management and Disaster Preparedness
Council is hereby empowered to review and recommend for adoption emergency
management and mutual aid plans and agreements and such resolutions, rules, and
regulations as are necessary to implement such plans and agreements.
   (B)   The Town Council is hereby empowered and directed to:
      (1)   Prepare an emergency management operating plan for the town
conforming to the county and state emergency management plan and program;
      (2)   Control and direct the effort of the emergency management
organization of the town for the accomplishment of the purposes of this
subchapter;
      (3)   Direct coordination and cooperation between divisions, services,
and staff of the emergency management organization of the town, and to resolve
questions of authority and responsibility that may arise between them; and
      (4)   Represent the emergency management organization of the town in all
dealings with public and private agencies pertaining to emergency management
and disaster planning.
(Prior Code, § 2-248) (Ord. passed 9-16-1963)
Cross-reference:
   Disasters; emergencies, see §
34.01
   National Emergency Management System, §
34.02
§ 32.058 TIMES FOR MEETINGS.
   The Town Emergency Management and Disaster Preparedness Council shall meet
upon call of a member of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-249) (Ord. passed 9-16-1963)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 32.070 TITLE.
   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment of the town (the
“Department of Redevelopment”), which shall be entitled to exercise all the
rights, powers, privileges, and immunities accorded to such department by I.C.
36-7-4.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-20-2020)
§ 32.071 BOARD COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Such Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a Board
of five voting members and one non-voting member to be known as the “Town of
North Judson Redevelopment Commission.”
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby created a Board to be known as the “Town of
North Judson Redevelopment Commission.” Three of said Commissioners shall be
appointed by the President of the Town Council, and two shall be appointed by
the Town Council. In addition, the Town Council President shall appoint one
non-voting member from the membership of a school board of a school corporation
located wholly or partly within the town.
      (2)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from
January 1 after his, her, or their appointment and until his, her, or their
successor is appointment and has qualified, except that the original
Commissioners shall serve from the date of his, her, or their appointment until
the first day of January in the second year after his, her, or their
appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same
manner as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term.
   (C)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his, her, or their
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his, her, or their appointment, which
shall be promptly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (D)   (1)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his, her, or
their duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be
approved by the Town Council.
      (2)   The bond must be in a penal sum of $15,000 and must be conditioned
on the faithful performance of the duties of his, her, or their office and the
accounting for all monies and property that may come into his, her, or their
hands or under his, her, or their control. The cost of the bond shall be paid
by the Redevelopment District.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-20-2020)
§ 32.072 MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Such Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by the laws of
the state as from time to time amended and shall qualify as therein provided;
and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the duties and
obligations conferred and imposed by said I.C. 36-7-4, including but not
limited to the following qualifications.
   (A)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and must
be a resident of the town. If a Commissioner ceases to be qualified under this
section, he, she, or they forfeits his, her, or their office.
   (B)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the town shall receive a salary; but
such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of his, her, or their duties.
   (C)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in any
contract, employment, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this
section and I.C. 36-7-4. However, any property required for redevelopment
purposes in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but
only by gift or condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this division
(C) is void.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-20-2020)
§ 32.073 DUTIES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town, charged by law with the performance of
duties in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same
duties with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of
Redevelopment, except as otherwise provided for in I.C. 36-7-4.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-20-2020)
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Clerk-Treasurer duties
   
33.03   Placement of funds
   
33.04   First violation; further penalties
   
33.05   Civil penalty
   
33.06   Referral and process
   
33.07   Fine schedule
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   There is hereby established an Ordinance Violations Bureau for the
Incorporated Town of North Judson pursuant to I.C. 33-36-1 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 33.02 CLERK-TREASURER DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations
Clerk, who shall administer the Bureau.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and his, her, or their staff, as his, her, or
their agents, shall accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of
violations, and payment of civil penalties in the specified amount for the
violation as established by the town’s ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 33.03 PLACEMENT OF FUNDS.
   All fines collected from the Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be placed in
the General Fund for any expenditure which is normally paid out of the General
Fund.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 33.04 FIRST VIOLATION; FURTHER PENALTIES.
   The fines set forth shall apply only in the event of a first violation. Any
subsequent violations shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of the
town code which provides for penalties, the amount of which shall be set by the
Town Council from time to time. Each day a violation occurs is a separate
violation.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 33.05 CIVIL PENALTY.
   The provisions of the code referred to herein are hereby amended to provide
and declare the civil penalty scheduled herein to be the specific civil penalty
for the violation of said code provision.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 33.06 REFERRAL AND PROCESS.
   Any fine not paid to the town within 30 days shall be referred to the Town
Attorney or processed in the appropriate court. The offender shall be
responsible for all court costs associated with prosecuting any violations in
court.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 33.07 FINE SCHEDULE.
   The following schedule of fees amounts shall be subject to change based on
the discretion of the Town Council, and shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time.
Code No./Ord. No. Offense Description Fine for First Offense
Code No./Ord. No.      Offense Description            Fine for First Offense
59-78, Set. 3.1-3.19   Bicycles                       $50
59-78, Set. 7.1-7.14   Excavations                    $50
59-78, Set. 8.8-8.14   Fireworks                      $50
59-78, Set. 8.15-8.16  Inflammable liquids            $50
59-78, Set. 8.17       Burning receptacles            $50
59-78, Set. 8.18-8.20  Firearms                       $50
59-78, Set. 9.1-9.14   Garbage, rubbish, and weeds    $50
59-78, Set. 14.1-14-4  Noise and public nuisances     $50
59-78, Set. 14-8       Littering                      $50
59-78, Set. 19.1-19.10 Trailers and trailer camps     $50
98-2                   Contractor registration and    $500
                       permits
2004-02                Special events, parades, and   $50
                       the like
2004-03                Animal control and running at- $50
                       large
2005-02                Swimming pools                 $200
2006-03                Peddling at Highways 10 and 39 $50
2006-04                Peddling                       $50
2006-05                Trash and unattractive         $50
                       nuisances
2006-08                Contractor job site clean-up   $50
                       Traffic and parking
2006-09                regulations (non-moving        $50
                       violation)
                       Seat belt (non-moving          $25
                       violation)
130.30-130.32          Curfew                         $50
                                                      $15 for first offense/
2009-02                Skateboards                    $25 for each additional
                                                      offense
CD 22-42               Junk vehicles                  $50
2013-04                Garage/rummage/yard sale/flea  $50
                       market without permit
2013-04                Garage/rummage/yard sale/flea  $50 per sign
                       market signs-not authorized
 
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 2022-06, passed 12-5-2022)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Disasters; emergencies
   
34.02   National Emergency Management System
§ 34.01 DISASTERS; EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   DISASTER. Actual or threatened enemy attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire,
flood, storm, epidemic, riot, earthquake, or other similar public calamity.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters. It shall not include, nor does any provision of this
chapter apply to any condition relating to a labor controversy.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Ambulances or vehicles of the Fire or Police Departments.
(Prior Code, § 18-1) (Ord. passed 9-16-1963)
   (B)   Forbidden acts. It shall be a misdemeanor punishable as prescribed by
§
10.99, for any person during a disaster:
      (1)   To willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the local
emergency management organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or
regulation issued pursuant to the provisions of state, county, or local law, or
in the performance of any duty imposed upon the organization by virtue of the
provisions of state, county, or local law;
      (2)   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the provisions of state, county or local law, if such act is of
such a nature as to give, or be likely to give assistance to the enemy or to
imperil the lives or property of inhabitants of this town, or to prevent,
hinder, or delay the defense or protection thereof; and
      (3)   To wear, carry, or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the Emergency Management Agency of the state.
(Prior Code, § 18-2) (Ord. passed 9-16-1963)
§ 34.02 NATIONAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Incorporated Town of North Judson adopts the National Incident
Management System (NIMS).
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 8-18-2008)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Law Enforcement
   
35.01   Police Department manual of standard operating procedures
   
35.02   Manual available for inspection
   
35.03   Chief Police Officer
   
35.04   Appointment of Deputy Marshals
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.15   Fire equipment fund
   
35.16   Volunteer basis
   
35.17   Member selection
   
35.18   Officers
   
35.19   Member tenure
   
35.20   Member compensation
   
35.21   Meeting days
   
35.22   Fire inspections
   
35.23   Emergency activities
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 35.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT MANUAL OF STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   The manual entitled “North Judson Police Department Standard Operating
Procedures” is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference into this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-1)
§ 35.02 MANUAL AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION.
   The “North Judson Police Department Standard Operating Procedures” manual,
in its entirety and in multiple copies, is on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office for public use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 34-2)
§ 35.03 CHIEF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Marshal is the Chief Police Officer of the town and has the powers
of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town Council
and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Marshal or his, her, or their Deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him, her, or them by the Town
Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his, her, or their view, take him, her, or them before a court having
jurisdiction, and detain him, her, or them in custody until the cause of the
arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his, her, or their
aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(Prior Code, § 34-23)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-7-4
§ 35.04 APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   The Town Council authorizes the Marshal to appoint Deputy Marshals. Deputy
Marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Marshal in executing the orders
of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
(Prior Code, § 34-24)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and duties of Deputy Marshals, see I.C. 36-5-7-6
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.15 FIRE EQUIPMENT FUND.
   The Town Council, through its enumerated power, establishes the town’s Fire
Department and funds the equipment necessary for carrying out its function.
(Prior Code, § 26-20)
§ 35.16 VOLUNTEER BASIS.
   The town’s Fire Department is a volunteer fire department consisting of as
many volunteers as may be required for purposes of fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 26-21)
§ 35.17 MEMBER SELECTION.
   The regular volunteer members of the town’s Fire Department shall be
selected on the basis of his, her, or their individual interest in, capability
for, and devotion to fire protection. The Town Council shall have the right to
approve or reject all new members presented to them by the town’s Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 26-22)
§ 35.18 OFFICERS.
   The town’s Fire Department shall have one Fire Chief, one Assistant Fire
Chief, one Captain, one Lieutenant, one Secretary and one Treasurer. Officers
shall be elected on the fiscal year date December 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 26-23)
§ 35.19 MEMBER TENURE.
   A member of the town’s Fire Department shall serve in his, her, or their
respective office or carry out his, her, or their duties so long as he, she, or
they continues to be qualified and physically able to perform his, her, or
their duties pursuant to the town’s Fire Department Rules and Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 26-24)
§ 35.20 MEMBER COMPENSATION.
   Town Fire Department members shall be compensated for his, her, or their
service pursuant to the budget, as adopted annually, by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 26-25)
§ 35.21 MEETING DAYS.
   The official meeting day of the town’s Fire Department shall be the first
Thursday of each month. The town’s Fire Department determines minimal
attendance requirements for all of its members.
(Prior Code, § 26-26)
§ 35.22 FIRE INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Chief is hereby empowered with police authority to at all times
enter and inspect any building or part thereof that he, she, or they deems to
be a menace to public safety from fire.
   (A)   Upon said inspection, should the Fire Chief conclude that said
building represents a menace to public safety from fire, he, she, or they shall
issue immediate written notice to the Town Council and to the building owner or
occupant to:
      (1)   Remedy or remove said menace or receptacle within a reasonable
period of time;
      (2)   Protect persons and property from the hazards of the violation and
correct the violation; and
      (3)   Require persons to leave an area that is affected by a violation
and prohibit persons from entering the area until the violation is corrected.
   (B)   Any person failing to remedy or remove said menace commits a
misdemeanor and is subject to a fine, according to a schedule of fines, as
shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council, and made available for
public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, as provided in the
provisions of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 26-27)
Statutory reference:
   Orders to correct violations, see I.C. 36-8-17-9
§ 35.23 EMERGENCY ACTIVITIES.
   When the town’s Fire Department is responding to a fire call and there is no
other emergency department with overriding jurisdiction present, the Fire
Chief, or in his, her, or their absence, the ranking officer, shall direct all
non-fire-emergency activities at the scene until a law enforcement officer
arrives on the scene.
(Prior Code, § 26-28)
CHAPTER 36: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Equal opportunity
   
36.02   Employee crime insurance policy
Smoking Ban
   
36.15   Smoking and tobacco use in municipal places of employment
   
36.16   Distance
   
36.17   Posting of signs
   
36.18   Enforcement
   
36.19   Other applicable laws
Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace
   
36.30   Overview
   
36.31   Policy
   
36.32   Prohibited drugs
   
36.33   Alcohol
   
36.34   Reporting violations
   
36.35   Employee rehabilitation
   
36.36   Testing
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   All persons shall receive equal treatment and opportunity from the
town regardless of race, color, creed, national origin, age, religion,
handicap, or sex in all areas of employment, housing, education, and business.
   (B)   The town shall cause all federal, state, and local law concerning
equal opportunity to be enforced and utilized by its residents.
(Prior Code, § 2-277) (Res. passed 11-24-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Public works projects, see I.C. 36-1-12-1 et seq.
§ 36.02 EMPLOYEE CRIME INSURANCE POLICY.
   The town shall maintain an annual crime insurance policy to cover the
faithful performance of all employees acting on behalf of the town. The town
will no longer be required to carry separate bonds for its employees.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 12-6-2010)
SMOKING BAN
§ 36.15 SMOKING AND TOBACCO USE IN MUNICIPAL PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Smoking and any tobacco use shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within
municipal places of employment. This includes, but is not limited to, common
work areas, conference and meeting rooms, private offices, elevators, hallways,
employee lounges, stairs, restrooms, vehicles, and all other enclosed municipal
facilities.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 9-4-2010) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.16 DISTANCE.
   Smoking and any tobacco use shall be prohibited within a distance of eight
feet of the entrance of all public entrances of a municipal enclosed area where
smoking and any tobacco use is prohibited by this subchapter so as to ensure
tobacco smoke or tobacco residue does not enter into municipal places
designated as smoke-free and tobacco-free under this subchapter through
entrances, windows, ventilation intakes, or other means. However, smoking and
any tobacco use shall be prohibited within a distance of 15 feet of the
entrance of all park shelters.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 9-4-2010) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.17 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   Every municipal building and place of employment where smoking and tobacco
use is prohibited by this subchapter shall have posted at every public entrance
a conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking and tobacco use is prohibited.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 9-4-2010)
§ 36.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the town’s Police Department and
town’s Code Enforcement or an authorized designee.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may initiate enforcement with the town’s Police Department.
   (C)   The Health Department, Fire Department, or their designees shall,
while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect
for compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this subchapter shall inform persons violating this subchapter of the
appropriate provisions thereof.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 9-4-2010) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.19 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted to permit smoking or tobacco use
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws or to supersede any
local laws which are more restrictive. This subchapter shall be construed
broadly to effectuate the purposes described in the preamble of the creating
ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 9-4-2010)
DRUG- AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE
§ 36.30 OVERVIEW.
   The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe working environment,
to ensure that employees, equipment, and operating practices comply with health
and safety standards, and to maintain public confidence in the town and its
employees. Since the town values each employee, the town offers employees
assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 36.31 POLICY.
   (A)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition that
allows him, her, or them to perform his, her, or their duties in a safe and
efficient manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence
of alcohol or with prohibited drugs in his, her, or their systems thereby
affecting job performance.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge. This subchapter and related procedures may be
modified by the town at any time in order to comply with any applicable
federal, state or local laws or to better serve the needs of the town.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.32 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
802) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15)
and prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a
licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee.
Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a
substance abuse problem under this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.33 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town premises,
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for town business is never authorized.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.34 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.)
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity may
be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town’s reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 36.35 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and his, her, or
their family members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the
workplace and to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this subchapter or any other town policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 36.36 TESTING.
   (A)   The town will require employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests. Alcohol or drug tests may also be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the town; or
      (3)   When required by law.
   (B)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/or
job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor (with
the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (C)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in his, her, or their systems will not be offered
employment. Any questions regarding re-application opportunities should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who smokes or uses tobacco products in a municipal area
where smoking and tobacco use is prohibited by the provisions of §§
36.15 through
36.19 shall be guilty of an ordinance violation, punishable by a fine, the
amount of which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
      (2)   Each day on which a violation of §§
36.15 through
36.19 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 9-4-2010)
CHAPTER 37: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Depository
   
37.02   Banquet chair rental procedures
   
37.03   Customer hydrant rentals
   
37.04   Acceptance of credit cards
   
37.05   Electronic funds transfer
Bidder Requirements on Public Work Projects
   
37.15   Public work
   
37.16   Additional criteria available
   
37.17   Material change
   
37.18   Incomplete submissions by bidders and subcontractors
   
37.19   Lowest bidder not chosen
   
37.20   Certified payroll reports
Materiality Threshold
   
37.35   Internal control policy
   
37.36   Control environment
   
37.37   Risk assessment
   
37.38   Control activities
   
37.39   Information and communication
   
37.40   Monitoring activities
   
37.41   Threshold
Fee Schedule
   
37.55   Water fees
   
37.56   Sewer fees
   
37.57   Equipment and labor fees
   
37.58   Permits/application
   
37.59   Miscellaneous/other fees
   
37.60   Police Department fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 DEPOSITORY.
   The Town Council selects Star Financial Bank with its home office located in
Fort Wayne, Indiana, as a depository pursuant to I.C. 5-13-6-1(d). Star
Financial Bank has been approved as a depository of state funds.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 37.02 BANQUET CHAIR RENTAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Banquet chairs may be rented for a 24-hour period through the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   Chairs will rent for an amount according to the schedule of fees
located in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   One hundred fifty percent of the total rental amount shall be payable
in advance, which shall represent the full rental amount, plus an additional
50% to be held as a refundable security deposit. The advance rental fee and
security deposit will be required for any number of chairs rented. If/when
chairs are returned according to the terms of the rental agreement, the
security deposit portion will be refunded.
   (D)   A rental contract must be signed by the person renting the chairs,
which shall hold him, her, or them responsible for the full cost of repairs
and/or replacement of damaged, destroyed or lost chairs.
      (1)   In case of damage, destruction or loss, the security deposit is
non-refundable and will be applied toward the cost of repair/replacement of the
damaged, destroyed, or lost chairs.
      (2)   Total costs will be assessed in reference to the current
replacement/repair value of a similar or identical chair.
   (E)   Requests for weekend rentals shall be accommodated at the discretion
of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office if arrangements can be made for a town employee
to open up the building for chair pick-up and return.
   (F)   Should any portion of the rental contract be enforceable through legal
action, the renter is responsible for all of the town’s legal fees associated
with said contract.
(Ord. 2009-07, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 37.03 CUSTOMER HYDRANT RENTALS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2010, every utility customer shall be charged a
monthly fee for hydrant rental.
   (B)   Hydrant rental fees shall be the same amount for private residences
and businesses.
   (C)   Hydrant rental fees shall appear as a separate fee on monthly customer
utility bills.
   (D)   Multiple-dwelling properties shall be charged for each location
separately or per utility bill service location.
   (E)   Sales tax and penalties shall be charged on any regular payment or
late payment in the same manner with which other utility fees are handled.
   (F)   Customers who possess a dedicated hydrant shall be charged for the
actual full rental amount of each hydrant according to a schedule of fees found
in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (G)   Customers residing outside the town limits who receive utility
services shall pay a 25% surcharge in addition to the hydrant rental fee.
   (H)   Hydrant rental fee amounts shall be charged according to a schedule of
fees found in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (I)   Hydrant rental fees shall be deposited into the Utility Clearance
Account for disbursement into
the Water Operating Account at the end of each month.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 37.04 ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to establish accounts at, enter into
agreements with, and pay fees to Elavon, P.O. Box 206, Jonesboro, IN for the
purpose of enabling the town to accept VISA and MasterCard credit and debit
cards in the conduct of monetary transactions. A new user fee is established,
the amount of which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, for
monetary transactions up to and including another amount which shall be set by
the Town Council from time to time, and 3% of the monetary transaction for
monetary transactions over that amount set by the Town Council, said fee to be
collected and retained by the town for each monetary transaction paid in part
or in whole through the use of a credit or debit card.
(Ord. 2008-10, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 37.05 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER.
   (A)   Electronic fund transfers authorized. The town is hereby authorized to
use electronic fund transfers for official business of the town.
   (B)   Authority of Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and responsible for:
      (1)   Selecting the financial institution(s) to be used by the town for
electronic fund transfers;
      (2)   Executing the application and agreement with the selected financial
institution(s) for the town;
      (3)   Overseeing the use of electronic fund transfers for official town
business;
      (4)   Maintaining the agreement and the relationship between the town and
the financial institution(s);
      (5)   Establishing appropriate security procedures for passwords, codes,
controls, and other authorizations to protect and preserve the funds and assets
of the town;
      (6)   Reviewing all transactions and confirmation in connection with the
use of electronic fund transfers for property authorization, documentation,
itemization, and purpose.
   (C)   Administration of payments.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall not draw a warrant for an electronic
fund transfer unless:
         (a)   There is a fully itemized invoice or bill for each expense;
         (b)   Each invoice or bill is approved by the town employee or
representative receiving the goods or services;
         (c)   The invoice or bill is filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer;
         (d)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer audits and certifies before payment
that the invoice or bill is true and correct; and
         (e)   Payment of the invoice or bill is allowed by the Town Council
and is included on the accounts payable register.
      (2)   All electronic fund transfers must be for official business of the
town and shall not be personal in nature.
   (D)   Electronic fund transfers. Electronic fund transfers shall include
automated clearinghouse payments (ACH), wire transfers, direct deposit, on-line
banking transactions, telephone transfers, and other electronically authorized
or implemented transfers or payments.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the town shall comply
with all other requirements regarding the payment of claims by a political
subdivision.
(Res. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016)
BIDDER REQUIREMENTS ON PUBLIC WORK PROJECTS
§ 37.15 PUBLIC WORK.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this chapter, the term PUBLIC WORK has the
meaning set forth in I.C. 36-1-12-2. PUBLIC WORK shall also include the
following: any constructing, altering, reconstructing, repairing,
rehabilitating, refinishing, refurbishing, remodeling, remediating, renovating,
custom fabricating, maintenance, landscaping, improving, moving, wrecking,
painting, decorating, demolishing, and adding to or subtracting from any public
building, structure, airport facility, highway, roadway, street, alley, bridge,
sewer, drain, ditch, sewage disposal plant, water work, parking facility,
railroad, excavation, or other project, development, real property, or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, whether or not the performance of the
work herein described involves the addition to, or fabrication into, any
structure, project or development, real property or improvement herein
described of any material or article of merchandise, which is paid for out of a
public fund or out of a special assessment. The term also includes any public
work leased by a political subdivision under a lease containing an option to
purchase.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   The bidder shall include:
         (a)   A valid federal employer tax identification number for the
bidder, or, if the bidder is an individual, a valid Social Security number;
         (b)   A statement of compliance with provisions of § 2000e of Chapter
21, Title 42 of the United States Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246,
as amended by Executive Order No. 11375 (known as the Equal Opportunity
Employer provisions);
         (c)   Certificates of insurance coverage for:
            1.   General liability; and
            2.   Automobile liability, or as otherwise set forth in the bid
specifications.
         (d)   1.   A statement of compliance with all provisions of the
Indiana Common Construction Wage Law and the federal Davis-Bacon and any
related acts, and all rules and regulations therein, for the past five years;
            2.   Such statement shall also provide that the bidder has reviewed
the Common Construction Wage Law, the federal Davis-Bacon Act, and any related
acts, has reviewed and agrees to pay the applicable common construction wage
(or prevailing wage rate) as set forth in the common construction wage rate
schedule (or prevailing wage determination) attached to the bid specifications,
and will strictly comply with the Common Construction Wage Law (and federal
Davis-Bacon and any related acts, if applicable) and related requirements;
            3.   A bidder who has been found by the State Department of Labor
to have a violation of the Common Construction Wage Law that has not been fully
remedied within 60 days of the bidder’s receipt of notice of said violation
shall be deemed not to be a responsible and responsive bidder for two years
from the date of said finding. A bidder may also be deemed not to be a
responsible and responsive bidder if the bidder has committed multiple
violations of the Common Construction Wage Law, regardless of whether or not
such violations have been remedied. Further, a bidder on the federal Excluded
Parties List System (www.epls.gov) shall be deemed not to be a responsible and
responsive bidder;
         (e)   Evidence of participation in apprenticeship and training
programs applicable to the work to be performed on the project which are
approved by and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s office
of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization. The required evidence
includes a copy of all applicable apprenticeship standards and apprenticeship
agreement(s) for any apprentice(s) who will perform work on the public work
project;
         (f)   A copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that:
            1.   Covers all employees of the bidder who will perform work on
the public work project; and
            2.   Meets, or exceeds, the requirements set forth I.C. 4-13-18.
         (g)   A statement that individuals who will perform work on the public
work project on behalf of the bidder will be properly classified as either an
employee or an independent contractor, under all applicable state and federal
laws and local ordinances.
      (2)   The disclosure of a subcontractor (“disclosed subcontractor”) by a
bidder or a subcontractor shall not create any rights in the disclosed
subcontractor. Thus, a bidder and/or subcontractor may substitute another
subcontractor (“substitute subcontractor”) for a disclosed subcontractor by
giving the town written notice of the name, address, and type of work of the
substitute subcontractor. The substitute subcontractor is subject to all of the
obligations of a subcontractor under §§
37.15 through
37.20.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 37.16 ADDITIONAL CRITERIA AVAILABLE.
   If the criteria in §
37.15(B) are otherwise satisfied, the town may also consider the following in
determining whether or not a bidder is a “responsible bidder” for purposes of
awarding the public work project:
   (A)   For projects in excess of an amount which shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time, the town may require submission of Form 96 -
Contractor’s Bid for Public Work and may consider the information contained in
said document if the submission of said document was required by the bidding
documents and/or required by applicable bidding statutes and laws.
   (B)   Any determinations by a court or governmental agency for violations of
federal, state, or local laws including, but not limited to violations of
contracting or antitrust laws, tax or licensing laws, environmental laws, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq., the
National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq., or federal
Davis-Bacon and related Acts, being 40 U.S.C. §§ 3141 et seq.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 37.17 MATERIAL CHANGE.
   Any material changes to the bidder’s or first-tiered subcontractors’ status
at any time must be reported in writing to the town within 14 days of the
occurrence of said material change.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 37.18 INCOMPLETE SUBMISSIONS BY BIDDERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS.
   It is the sole responsibility of the bidder to comply with all of its
submission requirements within the time periods set forth in this subchapter.
Submissions that are inadequate and/or incomplete may result in a determination
that the bidder is not a “responsible bidder.”
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 37.19 LOWEST BIDDER NOT CHOSEN.
   If the town awards the contract to a bidder other than the lowest bidder,
the town must state in the minutes or memoranda, at the time the award is made,
the factors used to determine which bidder is the lowest responsible and
responsive bidder and to justify the award. The town shall keep a copy of the
minutes or memoranda available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 37.20 CERTIFIED PAYROLL REPORTS.
   For projects in which the cost is at least in an amount which shall be set
by the Town Council from time to time, the successful bidder and all
subcontractors working on a public work project shall submit a certified
payroll report utilizing the federal form now known as a WH-347 (or a successor
form or a state-certified payroll form if and when such a form is adopted)
which must be prepared on a weekly basis and submitted to the town within ten
days.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011)
MATERIALITY THRESHOLD
§ 37.35 INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY.
   The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Town Council’s internal
control objectives to all employees and elected officials of the town and to
firmly commit the town to the 17 key principles of internal controls as
established by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 37.36 CONTROL ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   (1) The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
      (2)   The town has the responsibility to establish and maintain an
adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the Town Council, various
boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and others reliable
financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of internal control
is necessary for the town to discharge these responsibilities.
      (3)   Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to unauthorized
access and use, transactions are properly recorded in the financial records,
and the resultant financial information is reliable. External organizations and
stakeholders of the town rely on financial information to make decisions toward
appropriations, loans and other debt, grants, and other contractual
relationships. Town resources are dependent upon the system of internal
control. Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of the
town’s systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C. 5-
11-1-27(e). The safeguarding of town assets and the reliability which the town
and others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the
effectiveness of the internal control process.
      (4)   The system of internal control is meant to keep the town on course
toward its mission to provide effective and efficient operations, reliable
financial reporting, minimize risks of asset loss, and comply with applicable
laws and regulations.
      (5)   Internal control is a process. The control environment is the
foundation upon which all components of internal control are based. Internal
control can provide reasonable assurance, but no system of control can provide
absolute assurance to the Town Council and other users of financial
information.
      (6)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be charged with:
         (a)   Evaluating the town’s internal control system for weaknesses on
a periodic (but no less frequently than annual) basis, providing solutions to
any discovered weaknesses, and inform employees of necessary changes in
procedures;
         (b)   Establish a confidential reporting system for individuals to
report suspected fraud and abuse of internal control policies; and
         (c)   Institute procedures to address violations of policies and
consequences for violations.
   (B)   The oversight body oversees the entity’s internal control system. As
the town’s Fiscal Officer, the Clerk-Treasurer will be the Town Council’s chief
agent in implementing and managing the internal control policies and
procedures.
   (C)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the entity’s objectives.
Individuals with delegated approval authority, (e.g. elected officials and
department heads) are responsible for establishing, maintaining, and supporting
a system of internal controls within his, her, or their areas of responsibility
and for creating the control environment that encourages compliance with town
policies and procedures. All levels of management and supervision are
responsible for strengthening internal controls when weaknesses are detected.
Department managers should periodically review departmental procedures to
ensure that the general principles of internal control are being followed.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer has the primary responsibility for internal
control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws, rules,
and regulations. The Clerk-Treasurer is the town’s chief source for information
and assistance to staff and department heads and will make resources available
to assist in administering this policy.
      (4)   The Human Resources Department/Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for
internal controls over employee recruitment, hiring, separation, promotion job
classification, employee rights, and salary administration. The Human Resources
Department/Clerk-Treasurer and Town Attorney are the town’s sources for
information and assistance and will make resources available to assist in
administering this policy.
   (D)   (1)   Management demonstrates a commitment to recruit, develop, and
retain competent individuals.
      (2)   The Town Employee Handbook provides a roadmap for recruiting and
maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment individuals may be subject
to pre-employment screening and/or a credit history check. The town will
continue to assess the best recruitment pools necessary to adequately implement
and maintain quality internal controls. Job descriptions will be updated where
necessary to reflect internal control responsibilities and duties. Employees
will be trained in internal control methods and all training will be documented
in employees’ personnel files.
   (E)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals accountable for
his, her, or their internal control responsibilities. Individuals are held
accountable for his, her, or their internal control responsibilities through a
recognized structure this includes relevant job descriptions, operating
procedures, periodic reviews, and corrective action procedures.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 37.37 RISK ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and risk tolerances. The Clerk-Treasurer with the
assistance of the Town Attorney will lead a risk analysis of three major areas:
         (a)   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
         (b)   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use; and
         (c)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer will define objectives in specific measurable
terms in order to enable the design of internal control for related risk and
identify who is to achieve it, how it will be achieved, and when it will be
achieved.
   (B)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives. The Clerk-Treasurer will identify risks to
the achievement of the objectives across town departments as a whole and within
each department. Analysis of risk through determination of objective measures
and variance tolerances is the basis for determining how the risks should be
managed and the response.
   (C)    Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks. Management is committed to fraud prevention
by utilizing a “trust but verify” approach. The potential for fraud,
misappropriation, and outright theft are contemplated as controls are designed
for various town divisions. Fraud responses will include statutorily required
responses to fraud, including, but not limited to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l) relating to
the Report of Misappropriation of Funds to State Board of Accounts and
Prosecuting Attorney and I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) relating to the Report of Material
Variances, Losses, Shortages or Thefts to the State Board of Accounts. The town
shall utilize a materiality threshold, the amount of which shall be set by the
Town Council from time to time.
   (D)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant changes
that could impact the internal control system. The Clerk-Treasurer, in
coordination with department heads, will regularly evaluate and adjust internal
control policies in order to accommodate for the impact of future changes,
including but not limited to, personnel changes, newly elected officials, new
programs, new technology, new laws and regulations, and financial fluctuations.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 37.38 CONTROL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks. The Clerk-Treasurer will establish and maintain a system of
internal controls that satisfies the town’s objectives in the following:
         (a)   Controls over information processing;
         (b)   Control over vulnerable assets;
         (c)   Establishment and review of performance measures and indicators;
         (d)   Segregation of duties;
         (e)   Proper execution of transactions;
         (f)   Accurate and timely recording of transactions;
         (g)   Access restrictions to and accountability for resources and
records;
         (h)   Documentation of transactions; and
         (i)   Meeting established objectives and goals for city operations and
programs.
      (2)   General internal control principles for departments are as follows.
         (a)   Separation of duties. Duties are separated so that one person’s
work routinely serves as a check on another’s work. No one person has complete
control over more than one key function or activity (e.g., authorizing,
approving, certifying, disbursing, receiving, or reconciling).
         (b)   Authorization and approval. Proposed transactions are authorized
when proper and consistent with town policy and the department’s plans.
         (c)   Custodial and security arrangements. Responsibility for physical
security/custody of town assets is separated from record keeping/accounting for
those assets. Unauthorized access to town assets and institutional data is
prevented.
         (d)   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation. Departmental
accounting records and documents are examined by employees who have sufficient
understanding of the town accounting and financial systems to verify that
recorded transactions actually took place and were made in accordance with town
policies and procedures. Departmental accounting records and documentation are
compared with town accounting system reports and financial statements to verify
their reasonableness, accuracy, and completeness.
         (e)   Application. The general internal control principles should be
applied to all departmental operations, especially accounting records and
reports, payroll, purchasing/receiving/disbursement approval, equipment and
supply inventories, cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing and
accounts receivable.
      (3)   All town systems, processes, operations, functions, and activities
are subject to evaluations of internal control systems. The results of these
evaluations provide information regarding the town’s overall system of control.
      (4)   Information must be timely and communicated in a manner that
enables people to carry out his, her, or their responsibilities. All covered
employees must be trained on Internal Controls according to I.C. 5-11-1-27(g).
      (5)   Internal control is meant to keep the town focused on achieving its
mission while avoiding surprises. All levels of management must assess the
costs, benefits, and risks when designing controls to develop a positive
control environment and compensate for the risks of noncompliance, loss of
assets, or unreliable reporting while accomplishing the town’s mission. The
Clerk-Treasurer will specifically monitor compliance with payroll activities,
disbursement activities, receipting activities, cash activities, and credit
cards transactions.
   (B)   Management designs the political subdivision’s information system and
related control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks. The
Clerk-Treasurer and department heads will work with a technology representative
the town is contracted with to ensure that information technology is used as an
integral part of the internal control system. This may include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Disaster recovery;
      (2)   Backing up systems;
      (3)   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform certain
tasks;
      (4)   Using technology to accomplish segregation of duties;
      (5)   Limiting the authority to access different components of various
softwares to employees with duties specifically related to that component;
      (6)   Prohibiting user ID and password sharing among employees;
      (7)   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to records
to key employees; and
      (8)   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of
alternative forms.
   (C)   Management implements control activities through policies. The town
has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to communicate policies to
employees. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer regularly works with departments
and employees who handle financial transactions to recommend and ensure best
practices. All procedures are in writing and communicated frequently to all
relevant employees. Policies are available both electronically and in hard copy
form.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 37.39 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Management uses quality information to achieve the political
subdivision’s objectives. The town strives to lead in the areas of financial
transparency and accountability.
      (2)   Using online resources and by adopting standards and investing in
systems that exceed state-mandated minimums, town management provides employees
and stakeholders with high quality information and informatics systems.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Attorney attend training and seminars
to stay abreast of changes and developments in requirements and communicate
that information effectively to impacted employees.
   (B)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality information
to achieve the political subdivision’s objectives. Internal communications on
internal controls are communicated through adoption of formal policies by
relevant boards and commissions and/or the legislative body or documented
through memos from the Clerk-Treasurer, Legal or relevant department head.
   (C)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality information
to achieve the entity’s objectives. Communications with the State Board of
Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies, and regulatory agencies are
documented by email, memos, letters, and other forms of written correspondence.
All documents are maintained in accordance with the town and state’s record
retention policies. Reports and policies are cross-checked for accuracy,
relevancy, and timeliness of information.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 37.40 MONITORING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to monitor
the internal control system and evaluate the results. Town Administration
monitors and evaluates compliance with internal control policies. Separation of
duties, layered approval systems, and monthly reports allow management to both
review and evaluate control systems. The Clerk-Treasurer shall implement a
system of monitoring that includes:
      (1)   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and working
effectively;
      (2)   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual activities
are in compliance with established procedures; and
      (3)   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly.
   (B)   (1)Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on a
timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to significant levels
of review. If informed of a material breach of internal controls, the Clerk-
Treasurer will report to the Human Resources Department and Town Attorney to
actively investigate.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer will address said breach and adjust policies
and procedures to prevent such breaches in the future. Once breaches are
identified and investigated, a formal or informal corrective action plan will
be developed.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 37.41 THRESHOLD.
   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold, the amount of which shall be
set by the Town Council from time to time, for purposes of the internal control
procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-19-2016)
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 37.55 WATER FEES.
   For water fees, see §
51.08, Miscellaneous Fees.
§ 37.56 SEWER FEES.
   For sewer fees, see §
52.64, Schedule of Miscellaneous Fees.
§ 37.57 EQUIPMENT AND LABOR FEES.
Service Price
Service                           Price
Backhoe with snow bucket          $175 for first half-hour
                                  $75 each additional half-hour
Backhoe                           $125 first half-hour
                                  $50 each additional half-hour
Brush pick-up special request     $100 for first half-hour
                                  $75 each additional half-hour
Dump truck                        $125 for first half-hour
                                  $75 each additional half-hour
Jet-vac - sewer-jet               $200
Labor fees                        $50/hour regular rate
                                  $75/hour after-hours overtime rate
                                  $250 per lot for first offense, placed as
                                  a lien against property taxes
Mowing lots                       $500 per lot for any further offenses
                                  within the same year, placed as a lien
                                  against property taxes
Non-emergency weekend after hours $100
service call
                                  $125 first half-hour
                                  $50 each additional half-hour
Snow removal/movement             Fee charged for moving/removing snow that
                                  has been placed in an unsafe or
                                  unacceptable location
Street sweeper special request    $125 for first half-hour
                                  $50 each additional half-hour
                                  $100 for first half-hour
                                  $50 each additional half-hour
Unsafe building inspection fees   Fees apply to inspections performed by
                                  Building Inspector and/or Fire Chief
                                  All other special inspection fees shall
                                  be the actual amount
Unsafe building clean-up          $150 per hour, plus equipment, materials,
                                  and dumpster fees
 
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 2022-06, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 37.58 PERMITS/APPLICATION.
  Price
                                                   Price
Building permits/      New structure (residential) $0.15/sq. ft., $200 minimum
application fees
                      New structure (commercial)  $500 flat fee for 10,000 sq.
                                                   ft. and under
                      New structure (commercial)  $750 flat fee for 10,001 sq.
                                                   ft. and over
                      Additions                   $100
                      Decks/patios                $100
                      Demolition                  $200
                      Electrical/upgrade          $100
                      Fences                      $75
                      Lean to/carport             $100
                      Occupancy                   $25
                      Porch                       $100
                                                   $50 - Temporary ramp
                      Sidewalk/egress/ramps-      projects are to be presented
                       permanent                   to the Council for
                                                   consideration
                      Sign/awning-commercial      $100
                       Structural improvement/
                      inspection (change scope of $50
                       structure)
                                                   $100 for permanent pool
                      Swimming pool               $25 annually for portable
                                                   pool (taller than 12 inches
                                                   and taken down each year)
                                                   $75 for up to 100 square
                      Utility sheds               feet
                                                   $100 all other sizes
                                                   $50 new permit before
                                                   February 15
Contractor permit                                 $25 renewal permit before
                                                   February 15
                                                   $75 for all permits after
                                                   February 15
                                                   $50 permit fees apply to
Gas service inspection                             inspections performed by
permit                                            Building Inspector (per
                                                   requirement by NIPSCO/
                                                   utility service provider)
Golf cart permits                                 $25
                                                   $25 per applicant
Peddlers permit                                   $15 per co-applicant
                                                   $15 per vehicle
                                                   $50 - Must provide proof of
Special event permit                              required insurance with town
                                                   listed as certificate holder
Yard sale permits                                 $10 for 1-2 days
                                                   $17 for 3-4 days
 
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 2022-06, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 37.59 MISCELLANEOUS/OTHER FEES.
Service Price
Service                            Price
ACH payment rejection fee          $20
Bank charge back fee               $5, fee charged by bank for processing check
                                   $0.10/page (or per side if 2-sided) for
Copy fees/town documents           black & white
                                   $0.25/page (or per side if 2-sided) for
                                   color
Highland Cemetery lots             $500 (sales $$400, upkeep$100)
Impoundment fee                    $20
Lien service charge                $25
Lien letters/certified mailings    $10
NSF fee                            $27.50
                                   $5 neutered on or before February 15,
Pet tags                           $20 after February 15
                                   $10 non-neutered on or before February 15,
                                   $35 after February 15
Quit claim deed/affidavit          $10
Road cut fee/performed by customer $300, $150 refundable upon completion of
                                   road repair
Stop payment fee                   $25
 
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 2022-06, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 37.60 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEES.
 
4X6 color photo (ea.) $2.50
5X7 color photo (ea.) $3.50
Accident report       $10
CD of photos (ea.)    $20
Incident report       $10
V.I.N. check          $5
Vehicle release slip  $20
 
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 2022-06, passed 12-5-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Fee schedule
   
50.02   Underground or buried utilities
Delinquent Accounts; Service Fees
   
50.15   Collection of service fees
   
50.16   Property owners
   
50.17   Satisfaction of debt
   
50.18   Right to appeal to Town Council
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   It shall be the policy of the town to charge deposits, fees, and/or
penalties on sewer/water utility bills according to a schedule of fees as shall
be modified from time to time by the Town Council and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for the following:
   (A)   Customer water deposit;
   (B)   Customer sewer deposit;
   (C)   Fee for disconnect notices;
   (D)   (1)   Water reconnect fee for first offense;
      (2)   Water reconnect fee for second offense; and
      (3)   Water reconnect fee for third offense.
   (E)   (1)   Water meter removal fee; and
      (2) Water meter reinstallation fee.
   (F)   Service charge added to all bills forwarded without the correct
address;
   (G)   Tap fees for water; and
   (H)   Tap fees for sewer.
(Prior Code, § 66-1) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 50.02 UNDERGROUND OR BURIED UTILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to adopt a local policy
regarding the designation of locations within the incorporated areas of the
town as underground or buried utility areas pursuant to I.C. 8-1-32.3-15(c)(1).
   (B)   Designation. The town, through its Town Council, hereby establishes an
Underground and Buried Utilities District (the “area”) to be in effect April
29, 2017, and to apply throughout the town’s right-of-ways and granted utility
easements, and is hereinafter defined as follows:
      (1)   In all areas of the town where no overhead or above ground
utilities, utility facilities, overhead lines, or associated overhead
structures used or useful in supplying electric, communication, or similar and
associated services currently exist;
      (2)   In all areas of the town where planned road projects, redevelopment
areas and/or economic development areas provide for and require underground
buried utilities and utility facilities, including but not limited to electric,
communication or similar and associated services; and
      (3)   In all other areas of the town’s right-of-ways throughout the town,
or in a utility easement granted by the town, whether or not above ground
utilities or utility facilities currently exist.
   (C)   Restrictions. With respect to the construction, placement, or use of a
small cell facility and the associated support structure, the Town Council
hereby restricts and prohibits the placement of new utility poles or new
wireless support structures in the designated area of the town right-of-ways as
outlined in this section, except as otherwise permitted in division (D) below.
   (D)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the restrictions and prohibitions
contained in division (C) above, the following provisions shall be met and the
following exceptions are hereby permitted:
      (1)   Collocation of small cell facilities on exiting utility poles and
wireless support structures within the incorporated areas of the town are
hereby allowed;
      (2)   Repair and/or replacement of existing utility poles and wireless
support structures within the incorporated areas of the town are hereby
allowed;
      (3)   A petition for a request to install new utility poles or new
wireless support structures within the incorporated areas of the town may be
filed with the Town Council, which shall hold a public hearing on such petition
within 30 days of the filing, and upon which a decision shall be made by the
Town Council within 60 days of such filing;
      (4)   Upon receipt of a petition for the construction, placement, or use
of a small cell facility on one or more new utility poles or one or more new
wireless support structures in the incorporated areas of the town, the town
shall post notice of the petition on the town’s internet website with a
statement that the petition is available to the public, upon request; and
      (5)   The prohibition or other restrictions with respect to the placement
of new utility poles or new wireless support structures within the incorporated
areas of the town shall be applied in a nondiscriminatory manner.
(Res. 01 of 2017, passed 4-29-2017)
DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; SERVICE FEES
§ 50.15 COLLECTION OF SERVICE FEES.
   For purposes of this subchapter, an account is deemed DELINQUENT if the
account holder has not made payment for any and all services billed, as of the
thirteenth of each month, as all payments for services rendered are due on the
twelfth of each and every month.
(Ord. 2018-19, passed 12-26-2018)
§ 50.16 PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of the passage of this subchapter,
all owners of real property shall cause the services to be placed in the
property owner’s name(s), and shall be responsible for the payments of services
provided to the benefited parcel(s).
   (B)   Any account, which is not currently in the property owner’s name(s),
as of January 1, 2019, shall be placed in the property owner’s name(s) by June
30, 2019, but the property owner(s) shall still be subject to §
50.17, herein, from the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-19, passed 12-26-2018)
§ 50.17 SATISFACTION OF DEBT.
   Before the services are reconnected or turned on as to any property that is
delinquent, payment must be made by property owner(s) of the property benefited
by the services. Should the property owner of any property that is delinquent
not satisfy any delinquency on the property in question, within 30 days of the
property becoming delinquent, the town may turn off all services to any other
property that the property owner owns, which is also receiving services by the
town, until any and all such delinquencies are satisfied.
(Ord. 2018-19, passed 12-26-2018)
§ 50.18 RIGHT TO APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   Should any account holder and/or property owner wish to appeal the decision
of the Clerk-Treasurer to disconnect services as to any applicable piece of
property affected, by virtue of this subchapter, that account holder and/or
property owner may appear before the Town Council, at the Town Council’s next
regularly scheduled meeting, for further presentation or determination.
(Ord. 2018-19, passed 12-26-2018)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission opt-out
   
51.02   Fluoridation of water supply
   
51.03   Town’s responsibility for tap
   
51.04   Unauthorized connection
   
51.05   Disconnecting from water supply
   
51.06   Rates and charges inside town limits
   
51.07   Rates and charges outside town limits
   
51.08   Miscellaneous fees
Allowances
   
51.20   Fire protection allowance
   
51.21   Summer and winter allowance
   
51.22   Water for residential swimming pools
Backflow Protections
   
51.35   Cross-connection
   
51.36   Outside entity
   
51.37   Inspections
   
51.38   Right of inspection
   
51.39   Disconnection from system
   
51.40   Other backflow protections
Cross-reference:
   Swimming Pools, see
Ch. 152
   Utilities Generally, see
Ch. 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 INDIANA UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION OPT-OUT.
   The town’s Water Works shall not be under the jurisdiction of the Indiana
Regulatory Commission for the approval of rates and charges and the issuance of
stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 66-19) (Ord. 2-1991, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 4-1992, passed 6-17-
1992)
§ 51.02 FLUORIDATION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   A fluoride compound as approved by the State Department of Health shall be
added to the public water supply in sufficient quantities to bring the total
amount of fluoride ions to optimum concentration recommended by the State
Department of Health, but never to exceed one and one-half parts per million by
weight.
(Prior Code, § 66-20) (Res. passed 12-17-1956)
§ 51.03 TOWN’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAP.
   The town shall be responsible for the portion of the tap coming from the
town’s main water line up to and including the water meter.
(Prior Code, § 66-22) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.04 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or tap into the public
water system without prior authorization or license from the town.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine according to a schedule of fines as shall be modified from time to
time by the Town Council and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 66-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 DISCONNECTING FROM WATER SUPPLY.
   A customer has the option of disconnecting from the town’s water supply
system, so should a customer that owns or maintains a vacant residence within
the corporate limits of the town voluntarily choose to disconnect from the
town’s water supply system, a fee according to a schedule of fees as shall be
modified from time to time by the Town Council and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall be imposed for removal of the
water meter. If/when the owner chooses to reconnect to the town’s water supply
system, a fee according to a schedule of fees as shall be modified from time to
time by the Town Council and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office shall be imposed for installation of the water meter.
(Prior Code, § 66-24) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 51.06 RATES AND CHARGES INSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   The water rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water used on
or in the property or premises as measured by the water meter there in use.
   (A)   Metered rates per month (per 1,000 gallons).
 
Metered Rates Per Month Phase I       Phase II
(Per 1,000 Gallons)     Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
First 5,000 gallons     $7.18         $7.75
Next 5,000 gallons      $6.51         $7.03
Next 5,000 gallons      $5.31         $5.73
Next 10,000 gallons     $4.22         $4.56
Next 25,000 gallons     $3.50         $3.78
Over 50,000 gallons     $3.01         $3.25
 
                       Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Meter Phase I       Phase II
              Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
                       Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Meter Phase I       Phase II
              Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
5/8”        $23.95        $25.85
3/4”        $39.95        $43.15
1”          $79.20        $85.55
1-1/2”      $138.55       $149.65
2”          $217.45       $234.85
3”          $296.50       $320.20
4”          $592.80       $640.20
6”          $1,185.35     $1,280.20
 
   (B)   Fire protection charges.
 
                                                  Phase I       Phase II
                                                  Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
Public hydrant rental fee - per meter - per month $8.33         $9.00
Private hydrants - per hydrant - per annum        $889.19       $960.33
 
   (C)   Fire sprinkler connections (per annum).
                                      Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Sprinkler Connection Phase I       Phase II
                             Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
                                      Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Sprinkler Connection Phase I       Phase II
                             Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
2”                         $99.10        $107.05
3”                         $222.50       $240.30
4”                         $395.25       $426.85
5”                         $617.55       $666.95
6”                         $889.20       $960.35
8”                         $1,580.85     $1,707.30
10”                        $2,469.95     $2,667.55
 
   (D)   Public drinking fountains (per annum).
 
                       Phase I       Phase III
                       Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
Per fountain installed $293.45       $316.95
 
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 2022-04, passed 9-19-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 5-15-2023)
§ 51.07 RATES AND CHARGES OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   The water rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water used on
or in the property or premises as measured by the water meter there in use.
   (A)   Metered rates per month (per 1,000 gallons).
 
Metered Rates Per Month Phase I       Phase II
(Per 1,000 Gallons)     Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
First 5,000 gallons     $8.25         $8.90
Next 5,000 gallons      $7.48         $8.08
Next 5,000 gallons      $6.10         $6.58
Next 10,000 gallons     $4.85         $5.24
Next 25,000 gallons     $4.02         $4.34
Over 50,000 gallons     $3.45         $3.73
 
                       Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Meter Phase I       Phase II
              Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
5/8”        $27.50        $29.70
3/4”        $45.85        $49.50
1”          $91.00        $98.30
1-1/2”      $159.15       $171.90
2”          $249.85       $269.85
3”          $340.65       $367.90
4”          $681.10       $735.60
6”          $1,361.95     $1,470.90
 
   (B)   Fire protection charges.
 
                                                  Phase I       Phase II
                                                  Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
Public hydrant rental fee - per meter - per month $9.57         $10.34
Private hydrants - per hydrant - per annum        $1,021.67     $1,103.40
 
(C)   Fire sprinkler connections (per annum).
                                      Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Sprinkler Connection Phase I       Phase II
                             Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
                                      Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Sprinkler Connection Phase I       Phase II
                             Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
2”                         $113.85       $122.95
3”                         $255.65       $276.10
4”                         $454.15       $490.50
5”                         $709.55       $766.30
6”                         $1,021.70     $1,103.45
8”                         $1,816.45     $1,961.75
10”                        $2,837.95     $3,065.00
 
   (D)   Public drinking fountains (per annum).
 
                       Phase I       Phase II
                       Upon adoption (10-1-2023)
Per fountain installed $337.15       $364.10
 
Note: Outside town limits rates are approximately 14.9% higher than inside town
limits rates.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 2022-04, passed 9-19-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 5-15-2023)
§ 51.08 MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
Description of Fee Price
Description of Fee         Price
Check for water leaks      One-time courtesy per residence per 24- month period;$35 per
                           each subsequent visit
Customer deposit           $100
Leak indicator assistance  $50 per visit
New water meter            $50 plus actual cost of meter, to be charged if new meter is
                           installed at customer’s request and old meter is not faulty
Pull meter at customer’s $35
request
Re-install pulled meter    $35
Swimming pool fills        $0.05/gallon; $1.25/mile for fuel and labor
Tap fee                    $1,500 or actual cost of materials and labor, whichever is
                           greater
                           First time is a courtesy; $100 second visit; $200 each
Thaw frozen water meter    subsequent visit; plus $50 for replacement of any base plate
                           breaks
Turn off water for repair  First time is a courtesy; $35 each additional visit
                           $150 first offense plus estimated water usage
Unauthorized water usage   $250 subsequent offenses; theft report will be filed with the
                           Police Department for any unauthorized usage
Water disconnect for non-  $75 first offense
payment                    $150 second offense
                           $300 third and subsequent offenses
Water disconnect notice    $10
fee
 
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 2022-04, passed 9-19-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 5-15-2023)
ALLOWANCES
§ 51.20 FIRE PROTECTION ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the
minimum charge and in the use charge as may be equitable.
   (B)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges herein above provided or to rates and charges
established in harmony therewith.
(Prior Code, § 66-82) (Ord. 2, passed 11-20-1961)
§ 51.21 SUMMER AND WINTER ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   In order that domestic and residential users of sewage services shall
not be penalized for the sprinkling of lawns during the months of June, July,
and August, the billing for sewage service for residences and/or domestic users
for said months of June, July, and August shall be based upon the water usage
for the previous three months.
   (B)   In the event the water usage for said previous three months are
greater than the water usage of said months of June, July, and August, then the
billing for sewage service shall be computed on the actual water used in the
month for which the sewage service bill is being rendered.
   (C)   Domestic and/or residential sewage service, as applicable to the
sprinkling rate, shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building
which is occupied and used as a residence.
   (D)   Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for industrial or commercial purposes. In the event a
portion of such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so that the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in
such case, the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such
portion of the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the
sprinkling rate.
   (E)   In the event the town requests for water to be left dripping during
the winter months to avoid freezing, a sewer allowance will be made available
upon customer’s notification of compliance to the water department and shall be
based on the average sewer amount for the previous five months.
(Prior Code, § 66-81) (Ord. 2021-06, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 51.22 WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   The volunteer Fire Department shall provide water for pool fills to
customers residing in the Fire Department’s coverage area, which includes Wayne
Township and portions of Rich Grove and Jackson Townships.
   (B)   The fee for pool fills shall be $0.03/gallon for water, plus sales
tax, and $0.80/mile for fuel and labor. This fee will be included on the town’s
schedule of fees, which shall be modified from time to time as the Council
deems necessary.
   (C)   Customers desiring to obtain pool fill services shall call the Water
Department to schedule their pool-fill, at which time he, she, or they will be
required to provide a credit card, which will be used to pre-pay the estimated
cost of the pool fill.
   (D)   Once the pool fill has been completed, the volunteer Fire Department
shall notify the Water Department of the amount of water used, as well as the
number of trips made to deliver the water and the total miles driven.
   (E)   Any difference between the estimated amount previously charged to the
customer’s credit card and the actual cost of the pool fill, shall be processed
as an additional payment amount or credit to the credit card initially
provided.
   (F)   The volunteer Fire Department shall receive $0.02/gallon from each
pool fill for its equipment fund, which will be processed through the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office and paid to the volunteer Fire Department on a monthly
basis. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer shall process a monthly payment to the
Water Department for the cost of the water used in the pool fills, plus sales
tax. All other fees shall be deposited into the town’s General Fund, to offset
costs associated with operating and maintaining the volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 7-18-2011)
BACKFLOW PROTECTIONS
§ 51.35 CROSS-CONNECTION.
   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the Incorporated Town of North Judson Water System, and the
other, water from any private source, water of unknown or questionable safety,
or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to
the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between
the two systems.
(Ord. 3 of 2018, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 51.36 OUTSIDE ENTITY.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish, or permit to be
established, or maintain or permit to be maintained, any cross-connection.
   (B)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the Incorporated Town of North Judson may enter the supply or
distribution system of said municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Incorporated Town of North Judson Town Council,
and by IDEM, in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 3 of 2018, passed 2-5-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.37 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Incorporated Town of North Judson’s
Municipal Utilities Departments, as well as its authorized agents or
representatives, to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by
the public waters system where cross-connections with the public water system
is deemed possible.
   (B)   The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential
health hazards involved shall be established by the Incorporated Town of North
Judson’s Town Superintendent.
(Ord 3. of 2018, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 51.38 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   Upon presentation of credentials, the authorized agent or representatives
responsible for the inspection of the cross-connections, as provided for in §
51.37 of this chapter, shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable
time to examine the property served by a connection to the public water system
of the Incorporated Town of North Judson for cross-connections. On request, the
owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the
inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or
systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections.
(Ord 3. of 2018, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 51.39 DISCONNECTION FROM SYSTEM.
   The Incorporated Town of North Judson, its authorized agents or
representatives, are hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of this subchapter
exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to
eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system. Water service
shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on the owner,
lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation is found or
suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord 3. of 2018, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 51.40 OTHER BACKFLOW PROTECTIONS.
   (A)   If it is deemed by the Incorporated Town of North Judson’s Municipal
Utilities Departments, its authorized agents or representatives, or its Town
Superintendent, that a cross-connection or an emergency endangers public
health, safety, or welfare and required immediate action, and a written finding
to that effect is filed with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and is delivered to the
consumer’s premises, service may be immediately discontinued. The consumer
shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days of such emergency
discontinuance.
   (B)   (1)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users, must install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
      (2)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (C)   If, in the judgment of the Town Superintendent for Incorporated Town
of North Judson, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water system, the town will give notice to the water
consumer to install such an approved device at a location and in a manner
approved by the Superintendent, and shall have inspections and tests made of
such approved devices as required by the Superintendent, and in accordance with
IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (D)   This subchapter does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, or the
IDEM Rule.
(Ord. 3 of 2018, passed 2-5-2018)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Compliance required
   
52.03   Damaging sewage works
   
52.04   Violations - general
   
52.05   Industrial pretreatment; violations; penalties
Use Regulations
   
52.15   Connection and use
   
52.16   Installation and connection
   
52.17   Discharge of water and waste
   
52.18   Pretreatment
   
52.19   Discharge of unpolluted water
   
52.20   Observation, sampling, and measurement of waste
   
52.21   Grease, oil, and sand inspectors
   
52.22   Unusual flows or wastes
   
52.23   Inspection, observation, measurement, and the like
   
52.24   Use of sewer stoppers
   
52.25   Contractor sewage disposal
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.40   Enforcement; by-laws and regulations
   
52.41   Appeals process
   
52.42   Sewer lien procedure
Rates and Charges
   
52.55   Definitions
   
52.56   User charges; classes
   
52.57   Quantity of water; discharges
   
52.58   Billing
   
52.59   Study of sewer use and rates
   
52.60   Enforcement
   
52.61   Installation of lawn sprinkling meters
   
52.62   Schedule of rates and charges inside town limits
   
52.63   Schedule of rates and charges outside town limits
   
52.64   Schedule of miscellaneous fees
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods, therein and
conventionally referred to as BOD5.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)   STORM BUILDING DRAIN. A building drain which conveys stormwater or
other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. A BUILDING SEWER is also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
      (1)   SANITARY BUILDING SEWER. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)    STORM BUILDING SEWER. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or
other Clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CLEARWATER DISCHARGE. Uncontaminated cooling water.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coli form bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat the pollutants, and in fact
does remove the pollutants to a substantial degree.
      (1)   The term “substantial degree” is not subject to precise definition,
but generally contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor
incidental removals in the order of 10% to 20% are not considered substantial.
      (2)   Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
COMPATIBLE include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; and
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds, fats, oils, and greases of
animal or vegetable origin, except as prohibited where these materials would
interfere with the operation of the treatment works.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (CA). The commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council or any duly authorized officials acting in its
behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with a average strength in excess of normal domestic
sewage.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A nondomestic discharger introducing pollutants into
the sewage system of the town, regardless of whether the discharger is within
the governmental jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the sources.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to roof leaders, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off, street
wash waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
INFILTRATION.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town through its
Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and his,
her, or their connection to the public sewer systems.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the sewage system of the town, its treatment
processes or operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or
disposal methods;
      (2)   Causes a violation of requirement of the sewage system of the
town’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation; and/or
      (3)   Prevents the use of the sewage system of the town’s sewage sludge
or its sludge disposal method selected in compliance with the following
statutory provisions, regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more
stringent state or local regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901),
including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401); and
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601).
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   Wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   SS not more than 200 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewater from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewater to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. Law No. 92-500 (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment on a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state, and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows,
into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through the sewage system of the town
into waters of the state in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, are a cause of
violation of any requirement of the sewage systems’s NPDES permit, including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group, or other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. The state pretreatment standards located at 327
I.A.C. 5-16 through 327 I.A.C. 5-21 are hereby incorporated. Minimum pipe size
and quality shall be four inches SDR 35 or better quality pipe with a clean-out
located at customer residence and every 100 feet of customer line.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point of the discharge.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plans, and institutions, including
polluted cooling water. The most common types of SEWAGE are as follows.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10.
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the sewage system;
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the sewage system
treatment plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the sewage system’s operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3.
      (3)   The Control Authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or the sewage system and in
accordance with 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not
a significant industrial user if it does not meet division (2) above.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period for duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours’
concentration of flows during the normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his, her, or their authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN. North Judson, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500 (33
U.S.C. § 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quantity equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and the wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works, pursuant to § 204(b) of
Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1283.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment by customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.03 DAMAGING SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 VIOLATIONS - GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be a moratorium upon the requirement for payment of
the penalty by the persons for a period of six months from the time of
enactment of this chapter, as set forth.
      (2)   Further, any person who has, pursuant to this division (A),
consented to the inspection of his, her, or their respective premises within 90
days of the date of adoption of this chapter, shall not be liable for payment
until the inspection has been accomplished and the person given the opportunity
to bring the premises into compliance within the time frame set out herein.
   (B)   Any person may avoid liability for payment of the surcharge
established, upon a showing that he, she, or they is in compliance with all
provisions of this chapter, which showing shall consist of the following
procedures and conditions as to each building or appurtenance connected to the
sanitary sewer.
      (1)   Each person shall, as to each building or appurtenance so connected
to the sanitary sewer, execute a grant of permission to the town, to come upon
the property and within the premises thereon, of the persons to inspect and/or
perform sewer tests as may be deemed necessary by the town to verify the
compliance hereinbefore referred to.
      (2)   The grant of permission, set forth herein, shall be deemed to
include periodic inspections and/or tests as may be determined to be necessary
by the town to maintain, ensure, and monitor compliance with the provision of
this chapter.
      (3)   The inspection shall be made upon reasonable notice of at least 48
hours. There shall be no fee charged for the inspection.
      (4)   If, upon the initial inspection contemplated to verify compliance,
a person is in fact not found to be in compliance, the person shall be given 14
days from the date of the inspection to so comply.
   (D)   In the event, a person is found to be in compliance as heretofore set
forth, and upon subsequent inspection is found not to be in compliance, the
person shall be liable for payment of an amount equal to the sum of the months
since adoption of this chapter, multiplied by the monthly penalty in effect
during the period as the case may be. The liability shall be reduced to 50% of
the amount if the person complies within a period of ten days after notice by
the town, of his, her, or their noncompliance a second or subsequent time, then
the person shall be liable for a sum equal to $50, plus an amount equal to the
sum of the months since adoption of this chapter multiplied by the monthly
penalty in effect during the period as the case may be.
   (E)   The Town Council has determined that the measures heretofore set out
are a reasonable means of insuring compliance with this chapter and are further
necessary to protect and ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
and surrounding areas. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter, except provisions noted, shall be served by the town with written
notices stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the
town by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.05 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the town has the legal authority to:
   (A)   Develop and enforce specific limits on prohibited substances;
   (B)   Enter the premises of any industrial user to conduct inspections,
surveillance, record review, and/or monitoring, as necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter and, if applicable, any effective industrial
wastewater pretreatment permit;
   (C)   Accept or deny any new or increased discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (D)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the sewage
system which reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the
health or welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to
interfere with the operation of the sewage system;
   (E)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect dischargers;
   (F)   Impose fees, if necessary, to offset the cost incurred by the
permittee for administering the pretreatment program requirements established
in Part III of this permit;
   (G)   Impose, as a maximum fine, amount to coincide with current fee
schedule, per day, per violation, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(l)
(vi)(A) and impose maximum fines, amount to coincide with current fee schedule,
per day, per violation for a first violation and up to, amount to coincide with
current fee schedule, per violation per day for subsequent violations in
accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 CONNECTION AND USE.
   (A)   The connection to and use of public and private sewers and drains, the
installation and connection of building sewers, and the discharge of waters and
wastes into the public sewer system of the town and providing for violations
thereof.
   (B)   All users shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any
sanitary sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface water,
ground water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted
water, or unpolluted industrial process water.
         (b)   The town shall require the removal of unpolluted waters from any
wastewater collection or treatment facility if the removal is cost-effective
and is in the best interest of all users of those facilities.
         (c)   Geo-Thermal Heat System must have a water meter installed in
water feed system to provide the town ability to bill for amount of water
dumped into sanitary sewer.
      (3)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use the sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town.
      (4)   No new connection shall be made to any sanitary combined or storm
sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment plant, including capacity for
BOD and suspended solids.
      (5)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
NPDES permit.
      (6)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (7)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby required at
his, her, or their expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and
to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official
notice to do so, provided the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property
line.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee, amount to coincide with the
current fee schedule, shall be paid to the town at the time the application is
filed.
   (C)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He, she, or they shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewerage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned
and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or sand. No
statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by a County Health Officer.
   (H)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Town Superintendent.
   (I)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishment producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case (I)(1)(a) or (I)(1)(b), the owner or his, her, or
their agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the town. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the town. A permit and
inspection fee, amount to coincide with current fee schedule, will be charged
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and a fee, amount to
coincide with current fee schedule, will be charged for an industrial building
sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application
is filed.
   (J)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (K)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear of the building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered a one-building sewer.
   (L)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (M)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. FD-5 shall apply. Minimum pipe
size and quality shall be four inches SDR 35 or better quality pipe with a
clean-out located at customer residence and every 100 feet of customer line.
   (N)   (1)   The building sewer (lateral) shall be brought to the building
below frost level. No sanitary sewage facilities shall be connected to this
sewer that are not at an elevation above the top of the casting of the nearest
sanitary manhole.
      (2)   Any facilities which are below such level must be connected by a
means of a lift station or other pumping facilities.
      (3)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface run-off or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (O)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. FD-5. All the connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (P)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the inspector or
his, her, or their representative.
   (Q)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (R)   All extensions of sewers to new developments or unsewered areas of the
town shall be sanitary sewers. Construction of new combined sewers or
extensions of existing combined sewers are not permitted. All plans and
specifications for sewer extensions must have valid construction permits from
the State Department of Environmental Management before construction commences.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 DISCHARGE OF WATER AND WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by integration with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH of lower than 6.0, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his, her, or their opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewer, nature of the sewage treatment process,
capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F or 0°C and
65°C;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded; (The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.)
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to a degree that any material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the town
for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
the quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slug,” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic waste waters that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
sewage system;
      (12)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
sewage system, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21.
      (13)   Heat in an amount that could:
         (a)   Inhibit biological activity in the sewage system and result in
interference or damage to the sewage system; or
         (b)   Exceed 40°C or 104°F at the sewage system treatment plant unless
the commissioner, upon request of the sewage system, approves alternate
temperature limits.
      (14)   Petroleum, oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in an amount that could cause interference or pass through;
      (15)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the sewage system in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems; and
      (16)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the town; and
         (b)   When introduced to the town at a discharge point designated by
the town.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in this chapter, and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require new industries (or other large users) or industries (or
other large users) with significant increase in discharges to submit
information on wastewater quantities characteristics and obtain prior approval
for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage, as defined;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating the wastes.
   (D)   If the Superintendent requires the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and the Control
Authority and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, articles,
and law.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his, her, or their expense.
   (F)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of the property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be both accessible and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his, her, or
their expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
   (G)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods of the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole, except for applications of NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA (40 C.F.R. part 136). In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards of life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
   (H)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at the rates as are compatible with the rate chapter.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) (40 C.F.R. part 403), and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures
for Analysis of Pollutants” (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more
stringent requirements established by the town, and any subsequent state or
federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to the pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for
approval of the town and the State Department of Environmental Management and
no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until approval in writing,
is granted.
      (2)   Where facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the town to
determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance with applicable
federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating
records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the character
of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.19 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling condensing systems, or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, to a combined sewer
approved by the town and state or natural outlet approved by the state. Where a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet is not available, the unpolluted
water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval by the
town. Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance herewith.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.20 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING, AND MEASUREMENT OF WASTE.
   (A)   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information of wastewater flows and
characteristics. The measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the
users’ expense. If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town.
   (B)   The strength of wastewater shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for herein, from samples taken at the
aforementioned structure at any period of time and of the duration and in the
manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the town.
   (C)   (1)   Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town.
      (2)   The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also
be used for determination of charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.21 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the town they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors or traps will
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved
by the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
      (3)   They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of
substantial construction, be gas-tight, water-tight, and equipped with easily
removable covers.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall
be maintained by the owner, at his, her, or their expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.22 UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.23 INSPECTION, OBSERVATION, MEASUREMENT, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent, inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of and in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Superintendent or his, her, or their representative shall have
the authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement, and shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.24 USE OF SEWER STOPPERS.
   (A)   Once a sewer only account has reached delinquent status, the town has
the option of installing a sewer stopper for the purpose of hindering sewage
flow in a customer’s line.
   (B)   The customer will be responsible for the cost of the sewer stopper, as
well as any labor charges, as defined in the schedule of fees, which may be
found in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   At least ten days prior to installing a sewer stopper, the town will
provide the customer with a letter notifying him, her, or them of the impending
installation and the cost of the material and labor.
   (D)   Any customer that damages, tampers, or interferes with a sewer stopper
in any way will be assessed a fine, as defined in the schedule of fees, which
may be found in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (E)   Once a sewer stopper has been installed, the customer will be
responsible for payment of all delinquent amounts, as well as the cost and
installation of the sewer stopper, prior to having it removed. A removal fee
will be charged, as defined in the schedule of fees, which may be found in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 52.25 CONTRACTOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The amount charged for each porta-potty shall be per gallon for a
minimum of 375 gallons per load, or another amount which shall be set by the
Town Council from time to time.
   (B)   The fee charged per gallon shall be included on the town’s schedule of
fees and modified as the Town Council deems necessary.
   (C)   The town may refuse a sewage contractor permission to utilize the
town’s wastewater treatment plant for any reason, including but not limited to
misuse, improper use, inaccurate reporting, and plant capacity limits.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 12-6-2010)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.40 ENFORCEMENT; BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall make and enforce by-laws and regulations as may
be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers, and connection to the
sewage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of
the rates and charges.
      (2)   No free service shall be provided to any user of the wastewater
treatment facility.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.41 APPEALS PROCESS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval by the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the
sewage system and user charge system to the Town Council and that any decision
concerning the sewage system or user charges of the Town Council may be
appealed to the circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures
provided for in I.C. 4-21.5-3.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.42 SEWER LIEN PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All bills for sewage usage shall be paid in the office of the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer on or before the fifteenth of each month, and any bill not paid
by the fifteenth of the month shall be assessed a penalty of 10% of the amount
of the sewage bill.
   (B)   (1)   A sewer bill not paid within 30 days after the due date shall be
considered delinquent. The customer may cure the delinquency by paying the
delinquent fees together with the penalty. Delinquent customers and penalties
may be collected through the small claims proceedings.
      (2)   If the delinquency is not cured within 30 days after becoming
delinquent, the town may terminate water service to the customer if the
municipality owns the water utility serving that customer.
   (C)   If the delinquent bill is for a property that is occupied by someone
other than the owner, and if the owner of the property has requested in writing
to be notified of any delinquencies on the property and provides an address to
which the notifications are to be mailed, the town shall send notice within 20
days after the bill became 60 days delinquent to the owner.
   (D)   If an account is delinquent for 90 days, the town shall record a lien
against the property. Twice each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a list
of all accounts which are at least 90 days delinquent and record that list with
the County Recorder. This list must include:
      (1)   The delinquent fees;
      (2)   The penalty;
      (3)   The service charge;
      (4)   An amount to reimburse the municipality for recording the lien; and
      (5)   An amount to reimburse the municipality for releasing the lien.
   (E)   In addition to all delinquent fees and penalties, the town may recover
the recording and release fee paid to the County Recorder and a service charge,
amount to coincide with fee schedule. The town shall mail a notice to the owner
of each property that a lien has been recorded against the property. Liens
recorded after March 31 of each year will not be enforced until the next
calendar year. The town shall release the lien when the town has been
reimbursed for its cost and the County Recorder has been paid for the recording
of the release of lien.
   (F)   Prior to June 1 of each year, the town shall certify to the County
Auditor all recorded liens that remain unpaid. This certification shall include
those unpaid liens recorded between April 1 of the preceding year and April 1
of the current year. After certification to the County Auditor, the town may
not accept payment of any fee, charges, or penalties. The collection shall be
solely through the office of the County Treasurer. Upon certification, the
County Auditor shall add a certification fee; amount coincides with current fee
schedule, in addition to the fees and charges already assessed. The total
amount due, together with the certification fee, shall be added to the owner’s
property tax statement for November of that year. Upon collection by the
county, the County Treasurer shall retain the certification fee and the service
charge and all remaining fees and penalties shall be paid to the town at each
semi-annual tax settlement.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The same as defined in §
52.01.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of North Judson or any duly authorized officials
acting in its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments and
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage.”
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business process as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
convenience.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   S.S. not more than 200 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewater from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in §
52.01.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment of a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state, and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §
52.01.
   SS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The same meaning as defined in §
52.01.
   TOWN. North Judson, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works pursuant to § 204(b) of Pub.
Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process, or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which based on a determination by the town
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in as social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function, which, based on a
determination by the town discharges primarily segregated domestic waste or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as residence for one or more persons, including all
dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 10, 1997, passed 8-11-1997; Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.56 USER CHARGES; CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the average works shall recover, from each
user and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment
works in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost
of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the treatment works.
User charge shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
useful life of the sewage works equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the
purposes of this subchapter, shall be as follows for Class I;
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Governmental;
         (d)   Institutional; and
         (e)   Industrial.
   (B)   For the use of and the services rendered by sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected within the town sewage system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sewer system of the town. The
rates and charts include user charges, debt service costs, excessive strength
surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and charges shall be payable
as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determinable as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to the rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water there in use, plus a base charge based on
the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided. For
the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage use, the water
meters shall be read monthly and the uses shall be billed monthly or period
equaling a month. The water usage schedule on which the amount of the rates and
charges shall be determined is as follows:
         (a)   All users; treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:
 
User Charge Debt Service Total
$2.30       $1.30        $3.60
 
         (b) All users; plus monthly base rate:
Monthly Base Rate
Base Rate User Charge Debt Service Total
Monthly Base Rate
Base Rate                    User Charge Debt Service Total
5/8- or 3/4-inch water meter $2.58       $4.07        $6.65
1-inch water meter           $4.01       $10.19       $14.20
1 1/4 inch water meter       $5.47       $16.33       $21.80
1 1/2 -inch water meter      $7.20       $23.65       $30.85
2-inch water meter           $11.21      $40.79       $52
3-inch water meter           $23.71      $93.84       $117.55
4-inch water meter           $40.97      $167.28      $208.25
6-inch water meter           $89.94      $375.36      $465.30
 
      (2)   (a)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users
or accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month).
         (b)   The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be determined
is as follows:
 
Monthly Base Rate   
                             User Charge Debt Service Total
Residential:                                         
Single-family residence/unit $12.95      $9.90        $22.85
 
         (c)   Unmetered non-residential single-family dwelling units shall be
charged a rate to be determined by the town on an individual basis by applying
the above metered rates to estimate usage and meter size.
         (d)   The connection fee for a four-inch or six-inch wastewater tap
will coincide with the fee schedule. For an eight-inch and larger wastewater
tap, the connection fee will be based on the actual time and materials required
to make the tap, with the minimum amount to coincide with the fee schedule.
      (3)   For the services rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges herein above provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
      (4)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the
town shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring but no less than $30
per sampling event. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other
rates and charges in this chapter.
   (C)   These rates shall be subject to change at the discretion of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 10, 1997, passed 8-11-1997; Ord. 7, 2002, passed 8-12-2002; Ord. 3, 2006,
passed 5- -2006; Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.57 QUANTITY OF WATER; DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sewage system and obtained
from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be determined by
the town in the manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and the sewage
service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates, except as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that the
quantities do not enter the sewage system.
      (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied
by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon or therein is
not measured by a water meter, or if measured by a water meter not acceptable
to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in
this chapter, the owner or other interested party shall at his, her, or their
expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determining of sewage discharge.
      (2)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water supplied by
the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of water from
another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall otherwise be
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates or charges,
the owner or other interested parties shall, at his, her, or their expense,
install and maintain weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
      (3)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate,
or buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the
town’s sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the
quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, and billing for service
is rendered to the individual lots, parcels of real estate, building or
dwelling units, then in each case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water
used shall be averaged for each user and the base charge and the flow rates and
charges shall apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real
estate, or buildings served through the single water meter.
      (4)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments, or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, and billing for service is rendered in a single monthly bill, then in
such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out
elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than the
number of dwelling units times base rate per month, the amount of which shall
be set by the Town Council from time to time. In case of mobile home courts,
the number of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as the total
number of mobile home spaces available for rent, plus any other dwelling units
served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or
rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
      (5)   (a)   In order that single family domestic and residential users of
sewage services shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the months
of June, July, August and September, the billing for sewage services for
residents and/or domestic users for the months of June, July, August, and
September shall be based upon the average water usage for the previous months
of December, January, February, and March.
         (b)   In the event the water usage for the previous months of
December, January, February, and March is greater than the water usage for the
month of June, July, August, and September, then the billing for sewage
services shall be computed on the actual water used in the month for which the
sewage service bill is being rendered. Domestic and/or residential sewage
services as applicable to the sprinkling rate shall apply to each lot, parcel
of real estate, or building which is occupied and used as a residence.
         (c)   The sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a
portion of the premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so that the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in
the case the water usage as registered by the water meter serving the portion
of the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the
sprinkling rate.
      (6)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharge
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids not the town’s
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of
10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his, her, or their expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (7)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other users, the town may, at its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
   (B)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to user, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and shall require the user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into
the sewage system, in a manner and by the method as the town may deem
practicable in the light of the condition and attending circumstances of the
case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a
sampling point, as defined herein, available to the town at all times.
      (1)   Normal sewage domestic waster strength should not exceed a
biochemical oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended
solids in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for
treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following
basis:
         (a)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge, the amount of which shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time, of per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids received in
excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.24 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in
excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical
oxygen demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the current
addition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and
Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Environment Federation.
(Ord. 10, 1997, passed 8-11-1997; Ord, 3, 2006, passed 5- - 2006; Ord. 2009-09,
passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.58 BILLING.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly. At the end of each year, each user shall be given a notice of the
rates charged for operation, maintenance, and replacement for that user for the
previous year when requested by the user.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
the billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by the tenant or tenants, provided that the examination shall be
made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours that the
office is open for business.
   (D)   The town owns and maintains the main sewer line and one foot of tap to
main sewer. In the event a customer service line is in need of replacement the
customer shall pay the standard tap fee as posted by the town to have the town
replace the customer line from the property line to the main sewer.
   (E)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates
or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which the rates or
charges shall be paid is the fifteenth day of the month following the date of
each billing.
(Ord. 10, 1997, passed 8-11-1997 Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.59 STUDY OF SEWER USE AND RATES.
   (A)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may
remain fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing
services to the various uses for user classes, the town shall cause a study to
be made within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of
operation, following the date on which the first goes into effect.
      (2)   The study shall include, but not be limited to an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluent from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works,
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements, and capital
improvements of the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a study to be made
for the purpose of reviewing:
      (1)   The sufficiency of the revenues to properly operate the wastewater
treatment facility and all appurtenances attached thereto; and
      (2)   The maintenance proportionally among the user classes of the rates
and charges for sewage services.
   (C)   The studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town,
or by a firm or certified public accountants, or firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in the studies, or by the combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants, or engineers as the town
shall determine to be the best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 10, 1997, passed 8-11-1997; Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.60 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall make and enforce by-laws and regulations as may
be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connection to the sewage system, and
for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of the rates and
charges. No free service shall be provided to any user of the wastewater
treatment facility.
      (2)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into
the town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of the wastes to comply with other provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with users of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to the
sewage works can be determined, and special rates shall be based on the costs.
   (C)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approved by
the Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator
of the sewage system and user charge system to the Town Council and that any
decision concerning the sewage system or user charges of the Town Council may
be appealed to the circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures
provided for in I.C. 4-21.5-3.
(Ord. 10, 1997, passed 8-11-1997; Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 52.61 INSTALLATION OF LAWN SPRINKLING METERS.
   (A)   All lawn sprinkling meters must be installed in such a manner as to
provide a direct reading of the amount of water used for lawn sprinkling and
for a direct reading of the amount of water used that is subject to a sewer
charge. Water meters installed in “series,” where one meter reading is
subtracted from another meter reading, will no longer be allowed.
   (B)   The prevailing rates and charges, as found in the Water Rates and
Charges for the North Judson Municipal Water Utility (see §
51.01), will govern the installation of lawn sprinkler meters.
   (C)   (1)   All current lawn sprinkler meters that are connected in a
“series” fashion as of the adoption of this section are hereby grandfathered.
      (2)   Whenever maintenance is needed on the water meters or lines running
to the water meters, the metering system must be brought up to code to provide
direct readings.
   (D)   If a lawn sprinkler system is not installed to code, only the primary
meter will be read by the town, and all water used will be charged at the
prevailing sewage rate.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009) (Ord. 4, 2001, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 52.62 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES INSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Rates and charges for metered users.
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use.
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
(Per 1,000 Gallons)              Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
First 3,200 gallons              $13.42        $14.66      $15.25
Next 6,800 gallons               $9.68         $10.58      $11.01
Next 10,000 gallons              $8.08         $8.83       $9.19
Next 20,000 gallons              $6.01         $6.57       $6.83
Next 60,000 gallons              $5.17         $5.65       $5.88
Over 100,000 gallons             $4.61         $5.04       $5.24
 
   (2)   There shall be a monthly minimum charge based on the size of the water
meter in use.
                    Minimum Monthly Charge
Size of Water Meter Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
                    Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
                    Minimum Monthly Charge
Size of Water Meter Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
                    Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
5/8”-3/4”       $42.90        $46.85      $48.75
1”                $60.40        $66.00      $68.65
1-1/2”            $84.50        $92.30      $96.00
2”                $148.80       $162.55     $169.10
3”                $218.90       $239.15     $248.80
4”                $334.45       $365.40     $380.15
6”                $488.50       $533.70     $555.20
 
   (B)   Rates and charges for users of the town’s sewage works which are not
metered users of the town’s water utility.
      (1)   Residential users shall be charged the following amount per month
per single family equivalent:
 
Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
$60.40        $66.00      $68.65
 
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, and other nonresidential users shall
provide, at his, her, or their expense, appropriate sewage metering or other
measurement of water usage on the premises, which are acceptable to the town.
Such users of the Sewage Works shall be charged for sewage service in
accordance with the above metered rates based on the usage determined by
metering or measurement provided. A minimum charge per month shall be charged
based on the approximate water meter size above which would have been necessary
to serve the property with water.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 2022-03, passed 9-19-2022; Ord. 2023-06,
passed 5-15-2023)
§ 52.63 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Rates and charges for metered users.
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use.
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
(Per 1,000 Gallons)              Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
First 3,200 gallons              $15.42        $16.85      $17.52
Next 6,800 gallons               $11.12        $12.16      $12.65
Next 10,000 gallons              $9.28         $10.14      $10.55
Next 20,000 gallons              $6.90         $7.55       $7.85
Next 60,000 gallons              $5.94         $6.49       $6.75
Over 100,000 gallons             $5.29         $5.79       $6.02
 
   (2)   There shall be a monthly minimum charge based on the size of the water
meter in use.
                    Minimum Monthly Charge
Size of Water Meter Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
                    Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
                    Minimum Monthly Charge
Size of Water Meter Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
                    Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
5/8”-3/4”       $49.25        $53.80      $55.95
1”                $69.40        $75.80      $78.85
1-1/2”            $97.05        $106.05     $110.30
2"                  $170.95       $186.75     $194.30
3"                  $251.55       $274.80     $285.85
4"                  $384.25       $419.80     $436.70
6"                  $561.30       $613.20     $637.90
 
   (B) Rates and charges for users of the town’s sewage works which are not
metered users of the town’s water utility.
      (1)   Residential users shall be charged the following amount per month
per single-family equivalent:
 
Phase I       Phase II    Phase III
Upon adoption (10-1-2023) (4-1-2024)
$69.40        $75.80      $78.85
 
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, and other nonresidential users shall
provide, at his, her, or their expense, appropriate sewage metering or other
measurement of water usage on the premises, which are acceptable to the town.
Such users of the Sewage Works shall be charged for sewage service in
accordance with the above metered rates based on the usage determined by
metering or measurement provided. A minimum charge per month shall be charged
based on the approximate water meter size above which would have been necessary
to serve the property with water.
      (3)   Outside town limit rates are approximately 14.9% higher than inside
town limit rates.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 2022-03, passed 9-19-2022; Ord. 2023-06,
passed 5-15-2023)
§ 52.64 SCHEDULE OF MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
Description of Fee Price
Description of Fee        Price
Customer deposit       $100
Geo-thermal meter fee     Actual cost of meter plus labor and material
Leak indicator assistance $50 per visit
Sewer stoppers            $200, includes installation and removal
Sewer camera              $100, includes DVD or flash drive of customer’s
                          line
Sewer assistance or       $150, fee charged for assisting contractor with
troubleshoot              opening or troubleshooting private sewer lines
Storm water tap fee       $1,500 or actual cost of materials and labor,
                          whichever is greater
Tap fee                   $1,000 or actual cost of materials and labor,
                          whichever is greater
 
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 2022-03, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any persons found to be violating this chapter shall be subject to a
penalty, the amount of which shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time, per month, per billing account. This surcharge shall be imposed beginning
the month immediately following passage and adoption of this chapter by the
Town Council.
   (B)   Illegal hook-ups, sump-pumps, roof or foundation drains are penalized
by a fine, amount to coincide with current fee schedule, per day or damages,
whichever is higher.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 11-16-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Compliance with state law required
   
70.02   Exercise of due care required
   
70.03   Keeping reasonable distance required
   
70.04   Compliance with lawful order required
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.15   Signs and markings to be erected
   
70.16   Traffic duties of Town Marshal
   
70.17   Traffic violations codes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW REQUIRED.
   Every motor vehicle, motorcycle, authorized emergency vehicle, school bus,
bicycle, tractor, truck tractor, farm tractor, road tractor, bus, semitrailer,
or any other type of vehicle as defined by state statute shall comply with and
obey all traffic laws and traffic signals enacted by the state.
(Prior Code, § 62-2) (Ord. 2006-09, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 EXERCISE OF DUE CARE REQUIRED.
   Each driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when
necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 62-3) (Ord. 2006-09, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 KEEPING REASONABLE DISTANCE REQUIRED.
   A person who drives a motor vehicle may not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both
vehicles, the time interval between vehicles, and the condition of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 62-4) (Ord. 2006-09, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly fail to comply with a lawful
order or directive of a law enforcement officer invested by law with authority
to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 62-5) (Ord. 2006-09, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15 SIGNS AND MARKINGS TO BE ERECTED.
   (A)   The Town Council shall cause to be erected stop signs, yield signs,
and signs that indicate where parking is permitted and prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person except by direction of the Town Council to erect such
signage.
   (B)   All signs, including the marking and erection of traffic control
devices in the town, shall follow the state’s Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Prior Code, § 62-60)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic control devices, see I.C. 9-21-4-1 et seq.
§ 70.16 TRAFFIC DUTIES OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall enforce all state and town traffic laws, make
arrests for traffic violations, investigate all traffic accidents and prepare
reports thereabout, and assist the Town Council in the development and
administration of traffic laws.
   (B)   This shall be carried out by performing the following:
      (1)   The Town Marshal shall maintain a standard system of filing traffic
accident and violation reports and shall maintain suitable records showing the
types and numbers of traffic accidents;
      (2)   The Town Marshal shall make frequent studies and analyses of all
accident and arrest reports and records and shall utilize such information to
develop means of accident prevention;
      (3)   Every police officer who in the regular course of duty investigates
a traffic accident, shall make a full and complete report of such investigation
on a standard accident report form. Investigation is required where there is
injury or death of a person or total property damage to either vehicle appears
to exceed an amount which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
Said reports shall be available to the public for a nominal copying fee; and
      (4)   The Town Marshal shall annually prepare and file a traffic report
with the Town Council. Said report shall include all information pertinent to:
         (a)   The number of traffic accidents;
         (b)   Number of accidents investigated;
         (c)   Accident trends;
         (d)   Arrests made as a result of said investigations;
         (e)   Number of moving traffic violation arrests;
         (f)   Number of parking violations and arrests incident thereto; and
         (g)   Any other data on the traffic activities of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 62-79)
Statutory reference:
   Investigation of accidents; accident reports, see I.C. 9-26-2-1 et seq.
§ 70.17 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS CODES.
State Code Description Town Ordinance
State Code        Description                                    Town Ordinance
9-21-5-3          Alteration of maximum speed limits             2009-09-01
9-21-5-51         Failure to dim headlights                      2009-09-02
9-21-6-1          Speed contests                                 2009-09-03
9-21-8-32         Disregarding stop sign                         2009-09-04
9-21-8-1          Disregarding police officer directing traffic  2009-09-05
9-21-8-41         Disregarding traffic control device            2009-09-06
9-21-3-7          Disregarding automatic signal                  2009-09-07
9-21-3-8          Disregarding flashing signal                   2009-09-08
9-24-7-4          Learner’s permit violations                  2009-09-09
9-24-13-3         No driver’s license in possession/failure to 2009-09-10
                  display
9-18-2-26         Improper display of registration plate         2009-09-11
9-18-2-21         Failure to sign, carry, or display             2009-09-12
                  registration certificate
9-18-2-7          Expired license plates                         2009-09-13
9-18-2-27         False or fictitious registration               2009-09-14
20-9.1-5-11       School bus: failure to stop at railroad        2009-09-15
                  crossing
20-9.1-5-14       School bus: failure to use stop arm when       2009-09-16
                  loading/unloading
20-9.1-5-15       School bus: failure to use red flashing lights 2009-09-17
                  upon stop
35-45-3-2         Littering                                      2009-09-18
9-21-12-1         Passing while a school bus is loading/         2009-09-19
                  unloading
9-21-8-7          Passing improperly, vehicles proceeding in     2009-09-20
                  opposite directions
9-21-8-6          Passing improperly on the right                2009-09-21
9-21-8-7          Passing improperly on the left                 2009-09-22
9-21-4-18         Passing in violation of signs or markings      2009-09-23
9-21-8-5          Speeding up or refusing to allow vehicle to    2009-09-24
                  pass
9-21-8-23         Unsafe start                                   2009-09-25
9-21-8-24         Unsafe movement, from lane to lane or slowing  2009-09-26
9-21-8-9          Wrong way on one-way street                    2009-09-27
9-21-8-2          Driving left of center when not permitted      2009-09-28
9-21-8-24         Failure to signal turn                         2009-09-29
9-21-16-5.5       Parking in reserved disabled spaces or fire    2009-09-30
                  lanes
5-16-9-5          Parking in violation of handicapped parking    2009-09-31
                  laws
9-21-8-14         Following too closely                          2009-09-32
9-21-8-22         Illegal U-turn                                 2009-09-33
9-21-8-29         Failure to yield at unmarked intersection      2009-09-34
9-21-8-31         Failure to yield at through highway            2009-09-35
9-21-8-37         Failure to drive with due care when            2009-09-36
                  pedestrians present
9-21-8-35         Failure to yield to emergency vehicle          2009-09-37
9-21-13-2         Failure to yield or driving between funeral    2009-09-38
                  procession
9-21-8-39         Disregarding railroad signal indicating        2009-09-39
                  approaching train
9-21-4-16         Disregarding stop sign at railroad crossing    2009-09-40
9-21-12-5         Failure of certain vehicles to stop at         2009-09-41
                  railroad crossings
9-21-17-16        Hitchhiking on roadway                         2009-09-42
9-21-7-1          Unsafe vehicle                                 2009-09-43
                  Operating motorized bicycle under age 15,
9-21-11-12        operating without identification card,         2009-09-44
                  operating on interstate or sidewalk, operating
                  at a speed greater than 25 mph
                  Motorized bicycle operator or passenger under
9-21-11-13        18 years old without headgear or eye           2009-09-45
                  protection
9-24-1-5          Operating a motorcycle without motorcycle      2009-09-46
                  endorsement
9-24-1-5          No regular motorcycle operator’s license     2009-09-47
9-21-10-1         More than one passenger on a motorcycle        2009-09-48
9-21-8-27         Violation of signal devices                    2009-09-49
9-19-6-13         Improper use of spotlight                      2009-09-50
9-19-6-14         Improper use of fog lights                     2009-09-51
9-21-7-2          Failure to use headlights when required        2009-09-52
9-19-6-3          No or improper headlights                      2009-09-53
9-19-6-4          No or improper taillights or license plate     2009-09-54
                  light
9-21-7-3          Failure to maintain required lamps or          2009-09-55
                  reflectors
9-19-6-7          Failure to have clearance markers, lamps, or   2009-09-56
                  reflectors on certain vehicles
9-19-6-18         Back-up lights violation                       2009-09-57
9-20-9-8          Safety chain or towing device violation        2009-09-58
9-19-12-1         Rearview mirror violation                      2009-09-59
9-19-8-2          Muffler violation                              2009-09-60
9-19-3-9          Inadequate brakes                              2009-09-61
9-19-19-2         No windshield                                  2009-09-62
9-19-19-3         Obstruction of windshield                      2009-09-63
9-19-19-6         No windshield wipers                           2009-09-64
9-19-19-4         Tinted window violation                        2009-09-65
9-19-4-1          No bumper(s)                                   2009-09-66
9-12-7-7          No flag or red light for projecting load (four 2009-09-67
                  feet)
14-16-1-20        Operation of ATV on roadway                    2009-14-68
14-16-1-20(b)     Operation of ATV by individual under 14 years  2009-14-69
                  of age without immediate supervision on road
14-16-1-23(a) (8) Operating ATV on property without landowner    2009-14-70
                  consent
14-16-1-23        Operating ATV on railroad track or railroad    2009-14-71
(a)(12)           right-of-way
14-16-1-27        Operating ATV on public property               2009-14-72
14-16-1-21        ATV headlight and taillight violation (must
(a)               have one of each illuminated between sunset    2009-14-73
                  and sunrise)
14-16-1-8         Failure to register off-road vehicle           2009-14-74
14-16-1-09        Failure to carry ATV certificate of            2009-14-75
                  registration
14-16-1-11        No registration decals or expired registration 2009-14-76
                  on ATV
 
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code shall upon
conviction be fined according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from
time to time by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, for a moving violation and according to a
schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council,
and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for a
nonmoving violation.
(Prior Code, § 62-1) (Ord. 2006-09, passed 6-5-2006)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
Parking Regulations
   
71.01   Handicap parking areas
   
71.02   Loading and unloading
   
71.03   Parking on roadways and alleys
   
71.04   Parking on town-owned property
   
71.05   Limited parking areas
Traffic Regulations
   
71.20   Speed limits
   
71.21   Following vehicles
   
71.22   Pedestrians on roadway
   
71.23   School buses and school crossings
   
71.24   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
71.25   Truck routes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 HANDICAP PARKING AREAS.
   A lawfully issued and unexpired handicap parking permit, duly displayed,
shall be required for vehicular use of a property marked handicap parking
space.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a roadway or alley, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading freight, in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic. Roadside parking shall be allowed
as designated.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING ON ROADWAYS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a roadway or
alley in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale, or washing, greasing, or repairing
such vehicle, except for repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PARKING ON TOWN-OWNED PROPERTY.
   The maximum amount of time any vehicle may continuously park on town-owned
property shall be 18 hours.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 10-20-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 LIMITED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park any vehicle
in an area designated by a traffic parking sign as a “No Parking Area.”
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park any vehicle
in a designated parking area for a time period which exceeds the time allowed
by a traffic parking sign.
(Prior Code, § 62-105) Penalty, see §
71.99
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 71.20 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate any motor
vehicle at a speed greater than ten mph over and along any alley located within
the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The speed limits as set forth in I.C. 9-21-5.1-5.5 et seq. shall be
applicable upon all streets within the corporate limits of the town, unless as
otherwise posted, as authorized by I.C. 9-21-5-6, which declares and determines
upon the basis of engineering or traffic investigation that certain speed
regulations shall be applicable on specific streets, in which event it should
be prima facie unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle in excess of any
speed posted in a designated area.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 FOLLOWING VEHICLES.
   A person who drives a motor vehicle may not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both
vehicles, the time interval between vehicles, and the condition of the roadway.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 PEDESTRIANS ON ROADWAY.
   (A)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along or upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (D)   Each driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the
horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any
child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 SCHOOL BUSES AND SCHOOL CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No driver of any vehicle shall fail to come to a complete stop when
approaching a school bus from any direction in which the arm signal device is
in its extended position.
   (B)   No driver of any vehicle shall proceed when approaching a school bus
from any direction before the arm signal device is no longer extended.
   (C)   Each driver of a vehicle shall obey the instructions of a school
crossing guard to stop the vehicle while in a school crossing zone.
   (D)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches a school crossing zone, the
driver shall exercise extraordinary caution to secure the safety of the
children and pedestrians within the school crossing zone.
   (E)   Each driver of a vehicle shall obey the posted school zone speed limit
of 25 mph.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, motorcycle, authorized emergency vehicle, school
bus, bicycle, tractor, truck tractor, farm tractor, road tractor, bus, semi-
trailer, or any other type of vehicle as defined by state statute shall comply
with and obey all traffic laws and traffic signals enacted by the state.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly fail to comply with a
lawful order or directive of a law enforcement officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.25 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      5W TRUCK ROUTE. An established route through certain town streets, as
designated in this chapter over and along which trucks coming into and going
out of the town must operate.
      DESTINATION POINT. A point of stoppage to load or unload property being
transported and to be delivered or picked up at the point.
      DEVIATING TRUCK. A truck which leaves and departs from a truck route
while traveling inside the town.
      FARM TRUCK. A truck which is used for the transportation of agricultural
products from the farm to a point of destination within the town, or the
transportation of any commodity from the town to the farm.
      TRUCK. A vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of property,
and whose body weight or whose combined body and load weight exceeds 30,000
pounds registered gross weight.
   (B)   Application generally. All trucks traveling within the town shall be
operated only over and along the truck routes established in this section or as
otherwise designated.
   (C)   Enforcement. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall keep and maintain any
truck maps setting out truck routes and streets upon which truck traffic is
permitted. The map shall be kept in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
and shall be available to the public.
   (D)   Town police maintain signs. The Town Marshal shall cause all truck
routes and those streets upon which truck traffic is prohibited to be clearly
marked and posted to give notice that this section is in effect.
   (E)   Marshal/police, authority to weigh trucks. The Town Marshal shall have
the authority to require any persons driving or in control of any commercial
vehicle not proceeding over a truck route or street over which the truck
traffic is permitted to proceed to any public or private scale for the purpose
of weighing and determining whether this section has been complied with.
   (F)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit:
      (1)   Operation on street of destination. The established truck route
must be utilized until reaching the intersection nearest the destination point.
      (2)   Emergency vehicles. The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street in the town.
      (3)   Public vehicles. The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
town, public utilities, any contractor or material worker hired by the town and
engaged in repair, maintenance, or construction of the streets, street
improvements, or street utilities within the town.
      (4)   Detoured trucks. The operation of trucks upon an officially
established detour in any case where such truck can lawfully be operated upon
the street for which such detour is established.
      (5)   Loading or unloading. The operation of trucks in the town for the
purpose of loading or unloading any cargo or part of cargo. The established
truck route must be utilized unless the act of loading and unloading, not
merely the transportation to load or unload, requires a deviation.
      (6)   Service or repair. The operation of a truck for the purpose of
having such truck serviced or repaired.
      (7)   Farm trucks. The operation of farm trucks within the town.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-20-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.04 and §§
71.20 through
71.24 shall upon conviction be fined $50 per violation.
   (C) Any person who violates §
71.25 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the amount established by the
Town Council and set forth in the town’s Fee Ordinance, a copy of which is made
available at the town’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 5-18-2009; Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Applicable law
   
72.02   Number of riders
   
72.03   Position of rider’s hands
   
72.04   Helmet required
   
72.05   Brakes required
   
72.06   Speed of travel
   
72.07   Operation on public thoroughfare
   
72.08   Operation on sidewalk
   
72.09   Operation at night
   
72.10   Bicycle parking
   
72.11   Parent or guardian responsibility
Skateboards, Roller Skates, and Similar Devices
   
72.25   Prohibitions
   
72.26   Yielding and right-of-way
   
72.27   Jumping
   
72.28   Exceptions
Golf Carts
   
72.40   Purpose
   
72.41   Definition
   
72.42   Registration
   
72.43   Operational regulations
   
72.44   Exemptions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 APPLICABLE LAW.
   (A)   Operators of bicycles on public thoroughfares shall conform to this
subchapter and to the statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations established
for operation of motor vehicles.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or any bicycle or public path.
(Prior Code, § 62-182) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 NUMBER OF RIDERS.
   Not more than one person shall ride upon a bicycle unless such bicycle is
designed and manufactured for more than one rider.
(Prior Code, § 62-183) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles and motorized bicycles, see I.C. 9-21-11-1 et seq.
§ 72.03 POSITION OF RIDER’S HANDS.
   While operating a bicycle, the rider shall at all times keep both hands on
the bicycle’s handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 62-184) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 HELMET REQUIRED.
   Every person under the age of 12 years riding a bicycle on a public
thoroughfare shall wear a standard bicycle safety helmet.
(Prior Code, § 62-185) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 BRAKES REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake to enable the operator to bring
the bicycle to a stop within a reasonable distance on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 62-186) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 SPEED OF TRAVEL.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than permits him, her,
or them to bring the bicycle to a stop within the ensured distance ahead.
(Prior Code, § 62-187) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 OPERATION ON PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE.
   Bicycle operators shall obey the following rules when operating a bicycle
upon a public thoroughfare:
   (A)   A bicycle shall be operated as close to the right edge of a public
thoroughfare as is reasonably possible;
   (B)   Bicycles shall be ridden in a single file line when passing or being
passed by vehicles or other objects on the thoroughfare, parked or moving; and
   (C)   At no time shall bicycles be ridden more than two abreast on a public
thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 62-188) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 OPERATION ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   A person riding a bicycle on a sidewalk shall yield the right-of-way
to any pedestrian.
   (B)   A person riding a bicycle on a sidewalk shall give an audible signal a
reasonable distance before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 62-189) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 OPERATION AT NIGHT.
   A bicycle operated on a highway from one-half hour after sunset until one-
half hour before sunrise is by definition being operated at night and is
subject to the following:
   (A)   Bicycles operated at night shall display a white light on the front
thereof. Said light shall be securely fastened to the bicycle and plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet ahead under normal atmospheric conditions;
and
   (B)   Bicycles operated at night shall display a red light on the rear
thereof that is plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear under
normal atmospheric conditions.
(Prior Code, § 62-190) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 BICYCLE PARKING.
   A bicycle shall not be parked on the street except as follows:
   (A)   In the street against the curb so as not to obstruct vehicular
traffic;
   (B)   Upon a sidewalk in a rack or next to the curb so as not to obstruct
pedestrian traffic; or
   (C)   Against a building.
(Prior Code, § 62-191) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARENT OR GUARDIAN RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent or guardian of any child shall authorize or knowingly permit his,
her, or their child or ward to violate this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 62-192) Penalty, see §
72.99
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES
§ 72.25 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall skateboard on the public streets, parking lots, school
property, public parks, and sidewalks within the town. Within the town, no
person shall use roller skates or in-line roller skates on any public property.
No person riding on a sidewalk on a skateboard, roller skates, in-line roller
skates, coaster, scooter, toy vehicle, or similar device shall travel too fast
for existing conditions.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 YIELDING AND RIGHT OF WAY.
   Any person using a skateboard, roller skates, in-line roller skates, or
riding in or by means of any coaster, scooter, toy vehicle, or similar device
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians on the sidewalks.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.27 JUMPING.
   (A)   No person shall erect or place ramps or other items intended to be
jumped or used as a means of propelling a person who is using a skateboard,
roller skates, in-line skates, coaster, scooter, toy vehicle, or other similar
device on a public sidewalk, in a public parking lot or on public property, nor
shall such items be placed on private property that does not belong to the user
of said devices without the express permission of the owner of the property.
   (B)   The use of skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates, coasters,
scooters, toy vehicles, and similar devices shall not use such devices for
jumping onto or from items such as, but not limited to, railings, stairs,
bicycle racks, planters, benches, curbs, or similar items, and the waxing of
such items or similar items on public property shall not be permitted, and
shall be permitted on private property only with the permission of the owner of
the property. Congregation on public property for the purpose of using any of
the above equipment or doing any of the above cited acts, or traveling back and
forth repeatedly upon the same public sidewalk, is prohibited.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.28 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The use of skateboard, roller skate, in-line roller skate, or ride in
or by means of any coaster, scooter, toy vehicle or similar device shall be
permitted for the property owner, with the written consent of the property
owner on private property and sidewalks or on your own private property not in
the downtown area.
   (B)   The downtown area is a territory with boundaries on the east line of
Luken Street, a south line of State Street, a west line of George Street, and a
north line of the town limits.
   (C)   Skateboard, roller skate, in-line roller skate, or ride in or by means
of any coaster, scooter, toy vehicle, or similar device may be used in the
designated area of the town park in Norwayne Field, designed as a skating rink
with the presence of a parent, guardian, or supervising adult.
   (D)   This section does not apply to mobility handicapped persons using a
motor-driven, wheeled device on a sidewalk, public place, or in a parking
facility.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.40 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. A golf cart is
not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and roads, and the
town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on its streets. All
persons operating golf carts must be observant of, and attentive to, the safety
of themselves and others, including passengers, other motorists, bicyclists,
and pedestrians. All persons who operate or ride in golf carts on streets
within the town do so at his, her, or their own peril. The town assumes no
liability for the operation of golf carts within the town based on this
subchapter. This subchapter is not intended to authorize any other vehicle,
such as but not limited to ATVs, go-carts, lawn mowers, or off-terrain vehicles
beyond what is permitted by state law.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 72.41 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORIZED CART or CART. An electric or gasoline powered motor vehicle,
commonly called a GOLF CART, designed and intended to transport one or more
individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a
golf course.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 72.42 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to operation on roads, highways, and other public rights-of-way
within the corporate limits of the town, a motorized cart shall be inspected by
the town’s Police Department for basic road worthy status and registered by its
owner with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. Written proof of financial
responsibility is required at registration. A decal will be issued upon
registration and shall be affixed to the right rear fender area as to be fully
visible when the cart is in operation.
   (B)   A registration fee, the amount of which shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time, for each cart registered shall be payable at the
time of registration, and will be in effective for a period of one calendar
year. All registration fees for motorized carts are to be deposited in the town
Police Department’s Continuing Education Fund.
   (C)   The owner of every motorized cart operated on private roads, highways,
and other public rights-of-way shall maintain the state required minimum amount
of financial responsibility for the operation of said golf cart, and shall
furnish proof of financial responsibility as defined in I.C. 9-25-2-3 in the
following amounts: $25,000 bodily injury or death of one individual; $50,000
for bodily injury two or more individuals in any one accident and $10,000 for
the damage to or destruction of property in one accident; these amounts shall
be subject to change and set by the Town Council from time to time. Written
proof of financial responsibility must be carried by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-18-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.43 OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Motorized carts shall be maintained in proper working condition with
all equipment in working order.
   (B)   All golf carts must display a red or amber light at times when
headlamps are necessary for other motor vehicles, which light must be visible
from a distance of no less than 500 feet from the rear of the golf cart or
vehicle. In addition, if said golf cart is operated at times when headlamps are
necessary, said golf cart must be equipped with both headlights and taillights
that are in working order. In additional, all golf carts must be equipped with
a rearview mirror.
   (C)   Motorized carts shall be identified with a slow moving vehicle sign as
prescribed by I.C. 9-21-9.
   (D)   Only persons possessing a valid driver’s license issued by the State
of Indiana, another state of the United States of America or an international
agency shall be permitted to operate a motorized cart on private roads,
highways, and other public rights-of-way.
   (E)   The number of passengers allowed in a golf cart, for the purpose of
this subchapter, is limited to the manufacturers’ designed seating capacity
(i.e., two passengers per bench seat).
   (F)   Children less than 48 pounds must be in a child safety restraint seat
and secured to the cart seat.
   (G)   Motorized carts shall not be operated on the town’s sidewalks,
greenway trails, or within any of the town parks.
   (H)   Motorized carts shall not be operated on either State Road 10 or State
Road 39 within the town’s corporate limits.
   (I)   The direct crossing of State Road 39 and State Road 10 by motorized
carts shall be permitted.
   (J)   The operator of all motorized carts must yield to overtaking traffic.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-18-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.44 EXEMPTIONS.
   An exemption may be issued for a limited time, location, and purpose by the
Town Council as occasions and conditions so require, such as on a date and
location certain, for a limited time, for the purpose of parade participation
or festivals.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon violation of §§
72.01 through
72.11 by any person, the Marshal or Deputy may at his, her, or their discretion
issue a citation:
      (1)   Requiring the owner of the bicycle that is the subject of said
violation to deliver and surrender said bicycle to the town’s Police Department
for a period not to exceed 30 days; and/or
      (2)   Imposing a fine according to a schedule of fines as shall be
modified from time to time by the Town Council and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, as prescribed by the provisions of
§
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 62-181)
   (C)   Skateboard, roller skate, in-line roller skate, and similar device
violations as defined by the town code shall be subject to fines, the amount of
which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. On a second or
subsequent offense, the skateboard, roller skate, in-line roller skate, or
similar device will be confiscated if the violator is under the age of 18 years
old and will be returned to a parent or guardian upon payment of the fine.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the policy of the town’s Police Department to issue
a uniform traffic citation to any person the officer has probable cause to
believe has violated a provision of Indiana Codes or the town Ordinance while
operating a motorized cart.
      (2)   It shall be the policy of the town that an unregistered motorized
cart is in violation of the Indiana Code requiring a municipal ordinance
approving the use of the motorized cart and the cart will be towed and the
operator issued an Indiana Uniform Traffic Citation pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3.3
(a).
      (3)   It shall be the policy of the town’s Police Department that any
motorized cart found operating in violation of §§
72.40 through
72.44 shall be subject to fines, the amount of which shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time.
      (4)   A fine assessed for a violation of §§
72.40 through
72.44 and/or a traffic ordinance associated with these subchapters will be
deposited in the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 5-18-2009; Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-18-2016)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
      
II.   Stop signs
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
    The approved truck route for those trucks having a destination within the
town is:
 
Point Route
1     Beginning at a point on the intersection of Highway SR #10 and Luken
      Street going North on Luken Street to the intersection of Sycamore Street
2     East on Sycamore Street to Mulberry Street
3     North to Lincoln Avenue and along the entrance to American Oak Factory
4     North on Sycamore Street onto Arlington Avenue to the entrance to the
      Industrial Park
 
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-20-2015)
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS.
 
Intersection           Sign Details            Type of Stop Ordinance Passed
High Street and State  2 stop signs            4-way stop   2008-08   5-5-2008
Street
Keller Avenue and West 2 stop signs            4-way stop   2008-08   5-5-2008
Sycamore Street
Leslie Street and      Stops signs at
Wilson Street          northeast and southwest 2-way stop   2023-08   8-21-2023
                       corners
Mulberry Street and    2 stop signs            4-way stop   2008-11   9-15-2008
Lincoln Avenue
 
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 5-5-2008; Ord. 2008-11, passed 9-15-2008; Ord. 2023-08,
passed 8-21-2023)
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Limited/restricted parking
      
II.   Snow removal
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED/RESTRICTED PARKING.
 
Location                     Parking Status                Ordinance Passed
East or west sides of Ufkes
Drive for the entire length  No parking                    2008-15   10-20-2008
of the street, from State
Highway 10 to Campbell Drive
North or south sides of
Campbell Drive for the       No parking                    2008-15   10-20-2008
portion of the street from
Ufkes Drive to Liberty
                             No parking exceeding allotted
Lane Street                  time; no parking during snow  2008-17   10-20-2008
                             emergencies
 
SCHEDULE II. SNOW REMOVAL.
 
Street      Length                         Snow Removal Regulations
                                           Unlawful to park within 12 hours
Lane Street From Talmer Avenue (State Road after a snowfall of 3 inches or
            10) to Sycamore Street         more or any time when such street
                                           is being cleaned of snow
                                           Unlawful to park within 12 hours
Main Street From Talmer Avenue (State Road after a snowfall of 3 inches or
            10) to Luken Street            more or any time when such street
                                           is being cleaned of snow
 
(Prior Code § 62-155)
   (A)   The Town Marshal and Deputy Marshals are authorized to remove and tow
away or to have removed and towed away by commercial towing service the car or
vehicle of any person in violation of this schedule.
   (B)   Vehicles so towed shall be stored in a safe place and shall be
restored to the owner/operator upon payment of a commercial towing fee, storage
fee, and a fine according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time
to time by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code § 62-156)
(Ord. 81-A, passed 2-16-1981)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PLACES
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Other rules and regulations
Animal Regulation
   
90.15   General care
   
90.16   Chickens
   
90.17   Horses/ponies
   
90.18   Cats/dogs
   
90.19   Rabbits
   
90.20   Swine
   
90.21   All other animals prohibited
   
90.22   Housing and setbacks
   
90.23   Rabies
Prohibitions
   
90.35   Confinement
   
90.36   Running at-large
   
90.37   Nonimmunized animals
   
90.38   Capture and removal
   
90.39   Bodily injury caused by animal
   
90.40   Impoundment
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living, nonhuman, vertebrae creature.
   AT-LARGE. Not confined without means of escape of any portion of the
animal’s body in a pen, corral, yard, cage, house, vehicle, or other secure
enclosure, unless on a leash and under the control of a competent human being.
   CAT. Either a male or female feline animal.
   CAT COLONY.
      (1)   A group of two or more feral cats habituating a regular geographic
area.
      (2)   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of free-roaming cats that is registered
with the town and maintained by a caretaker.
   CHICKEN. A Gallus gallus domesticus, a domestic bird typically kept on a
farm. This definition does not include other fowl, such as, but not limited to:
peacocks; turkeys; or waterfowl.
   CHICKEN COOP. An enclosed structure for harboring chickens, that provides
shelter from the elements.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that:
      (1)   Would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not
secured;
      (2)   Has caused serious injury to a person, without having been provoked
by that person; and/or
      (3)   At a place other than its owner’s or keeper’s property that has:
         (a)   Chased or approached a person in a menacing fashion, or apparent
attitude of attack;
         (b)   Attacked another domestic animal; and/or
         (c)   Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting
physical harm or death to humans.
   DOG. Either a male or female canine mammal.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Rabbits, cattle, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, jackasses,
llamas, swine, sheep, goats, dogs, cats, and poultry.
   FERAL. Any domesticated mammal/fowl, which has escaped from domestication
and has become wild.
   FREE-ROAMING. Any homeless, stray, wild, or untamed mammal that is commonly
kept as a pet.
   HARBORING. Any person who permits, either implicitly or indirectly, any
animal to frequent or remain on or within his, her, or their house, building,
premises, or enclosure. For purposes of this chapter, HARBORING shall imply
ownership of such animal.
   HOUSING. Protective structures for animals that provide security and
adequate space for movement.
   IMPOUND. To seize and hold in legal custody.
   POT-BELLIED PIGS. Any type of small swine pet.
   POULTRY. Birds commonly kept as pets or for use in nonfighting sporting
activities, or for food. Permitted examples include caged songbirds, parrots,
pigeons, and chickens.
   PROHIBITED. Mammals and fowl not permitted residence in the town.
   RABBIT. Any family (Leporidae) of long-eared, short-tailed lagomorph mammal
with long hind legs.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. A self-contained unit of accommodation used by one or
more households as a home, such as a house, apartment, or mobile home. This
shall not include workshops, barns, or unattached garages.
   SWINE. Any of various stout-bodied, short-legged omnivorous Suidae which a
thick bristly skin and a long flexible snout, especially the domesticated pig.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 90.02 OTHER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any animal not specified in this chapter shall not be housed within
corporate town limits.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
ANIMAL REGULATION
§ 90.15 GENERAL CARE.
   Every owner or his, her, or their agent residing within the corporate limits
of the town shall see that each of his, her, or their animals:
   (A)   Are annually registered at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office on or before
February 15 of the current year. Registration requires the following documents:
      (1)   Veterinary proof in the form of a bill or letter of what shots were
administered. All animals must be vaccinated with the appropriate vaccines to
protect the health of the animal, as well as prevent the spread of disease to
humans or other animals;
      (2)   Before new permits are issued, the Code Enforcement Officer or
building inspector shall certify all appropriate housing and space requirements
are met. Renewal permits do not require this inspection before a renewal
license is granted;
      (3)   Identifying records such as registration papers, tattoo numbers,
microchips, or ear tags must be presented; and
      (4)   Permits will be in the form of numbered tags. Numbered tags must
either be, if practical, worn by the animal, or posted on the housing of the
permitted animal enclosure.
   (B)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner, and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
   (C)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, which is proper and
nutritional to that species of animal;
   (D)   Lives in a structure, which meets minimum veterinary standards, which
will protect that animal from all elements of the weather, and will allow that
animal to stand, sit, and lie down without restriction, and which is kept in a
sanitary manner;
   (E)   If ill, diseased, or injured, receives proper veterinary care, as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal, and prevents the
transmittal of a disease to other animals or human beings;
   (F)   Is not beaten, ill-treated, overloaded, over-worked, tormented, or
otherwise abused or neglected, or involved in any dog fight, cockfight,
bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and humans;
   (G)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian, except for identification purposes;
   (H)   Is not abandoned, neglected, or tortured;
   (I)   Does not become a public nuisance, or a dangerous animal;
   (J)   In the case of a dog or cat over the age of three months, is properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian, upon such frequency as
may be specified by state law;
   (K)   Is properly restrained, and not running at-large;
   (L)   During mating season, is kept in a secure location, and in such a
manner that it cannot come into contact with another animal of the same
species, except for planned breeding; and
   (M) Is not kept for the purpose of harvest or slaughter.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 CHICKENS.
   Chickens shall be allowed to be kept in the town, on parcels of land
consisting of at least one-third acre of property, in strict accordance with
the following requirements.
   (A)   No roosters shall be kept under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   There shall be no more than four chickens on any parcels of land less
than one acre in size.
   (C)   There shall be no more than six chickens on any parcels of land more
than one acre in size, but less than three acres in size. No more than eight
chickens may be kept on any parcel of land more than three acres in size.
   (D)   (1)   A chicken coop shall be provided. The chicken coop must provide
adequate sun, shade, and ventilation, and must be impermeable to rodents, wild
birds, and predators, including cats and dogs. The chicken coop must provide at
least ten square feet of space per chicken kept therein.
      (2)   No chicken coop shall exceed 80 total square feet in size, and must
otherwise meet all other setback and boundary requirements as any other
structure erected within the town, and as provided for in the town zoning
ordinance(s).
      (3)   No chicken coop shall be more than ten feet in height. The town’s
Code Enforcement Officer must approve the location of chicken coops on
residential lots. Chicken coops may not be constructed within 50 feet of any
neighboring residential dwelling.
   (E)   Permits shall be $10 per chicken, paid on or before February 15 of the
current calendar year, and posted on the housing structure.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 HORSES/PONIES.
   Minimum of seven-acre lot size required. Any resident wishing to harbor or
otherwise maintain horses/ponies on his, her, or their property must submit an
annual permit, and pay the associate $20 per horse fee, before February 15 of
the current calendar year. No more than two horses may be harbored by any one
household. The annual permit shall be posted on the housing structure for the
animals in question.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 CATS/DOGS.
   Any resident wishing to harbor or otherwise maintain dogs/cats on his, her,
or their property must have his, her, or their dog/cat registered with the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer, and pay the associated $10 per neutered dog/cat fee for
each dog/cat, on or before February 15 of the current calendar year. The fee
for any nonneutered dog/cat shall be $20, and shall be paid on or before
February 15 of the current calendar year. No more than four cats/dogs in any
combination may be harbored by any one household.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 RABBITS.
   Any resident wishing to harbor or otherwise maintain rabbits on his, her, or
their property must have each rabbit registered with the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer, and pay the associated $10 per rabbit fee, on or before February 15
of the current calendar year. No more than four rabbits may be harbored by any
one household. The annual permit shall be posted on the housing structure for
the animals in question.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 SWINE.
   Minimum of seven acre lot size required. Any resident wishing to harbor or
otherwise maintain swine on his, her, or their property must register each
swine with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, and pay the associated $20 per swine
fee, on or before February 15 of the current calendar year. No more than four
swine may be harbored by any one household. The annual permit shall be posted
on the housing structure for the animals in question.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ALL OTHER ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   Any animal not specified in this chapter shall not be housed within
corporate town limits.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 HOUSING AND SETBACKS.
   All required housing for permitted animals must conform to the acceptable
standards for the housing of such animal(s), and must be set a minimum of 50
feet from any neighboring property line.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 RABIES.
   (A)   Inoculation required. Every owner or keeper of any cat or dog within
the limits of the town shall cause such animal to be inoculated by a licensed
veterinarian with a prophylactic serum to prevent rabies by the age of six
months, and shall be kept current thereafter according to state guidelines. Any
person who shall violate or fail to comply with the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine according to a schedule of fees, as shall be
modified from time to time by the Town Council and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, plus court costs for each cat or
dog not immunized.
   (B)   Proclamation. Should there be an outbreak of hydrophobia (rabies), the
County Health Department will have jurisdiction over the town and all state
guidelines will be followed under the County Health Department’s direction.
   (C)   Method of handling suspected animals. If an animal is believed to have
rabies or has been bitten by an animal suspected of having rabies, such animal
shall be handled according to the County Health Department’s Animal Bite
Policy, which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this code as if
it physically appeared herein. At least two copies of this document are on file
in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and available there for public inspection.
   (D)   Observation and confinement. The owner shall notify the town of the
fact that his or her animal has been exposed to rabies, and said animal will be
handled according to the County Health Department’s Animal Bite Policy.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Rabies, see I.C. 15-17-6
PROHIBITIONS
§ 90.35 CONFINEMENT
   (A)   Any animal or other fowl kept exclusively or partly outdoors must be
limited to the owner’s property. When off the owner’s property, the animal must
be restrained by a container, leash, or other harness.
   (B)   Any female animal displaying signs of being ready to procreate must be
securely confined in such a way as to not attract male animals.
   (C)   Any animal, which by frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking,
screeching, or other vocalization, for more than one-half hour, may be
considered as causing serious annoyance or disturbance of persons in the
vicinity, and shall be liable to penalty.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly allow his, her, or their animal to disperse
waste material upon any public street, byway, or right-of-way, or any
municipally-owned public land or building. All persons shall exercise due
diligence in the safe and legal disposal of all animal excrement or waste on
his, her, or their personal property.
   (E)   Animal cruelty in the form of lack of nutrition, proper housing,
medical care, participation in violent sports such as cockfighting,
endangerment of neighbors to disease, shall be punishable by both criminal and
civil sanctions. Any person proven to have maliciously harmed or killed an
animal may face criminal action under I.C. 35-46-3.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of any animal shall permit such animal to run at-
large at any time. Maintaining or feeding of animals is an implication of
ownership and shall be enforced as such. It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow an animal to stray beyond the boundary lines of the person’s property, or
onto any public street, sidewalk, or alleyway, unless said animal is on a
leash, or under the direct and immediate control of the animal’s owner or his,
her, or their designee.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal or person having
control of any animal to permit the animal to interfere with the delivery of
mail, newspapers, meter readers, or any other public workers engaged in the
normal execution of his, her, or their duties.
   (C)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to allow an animal to
interfere with or attack a police officer, Sheriff’s process server, Building
Commissioner, Health Inspector, or any other government, telephone, or utility
employee in the normal execution of his, her, or their duties.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 NONIMMUNIZED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor any animal over the age of
three months, which normally requires rabies vaccination and is not immunized.
Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
Town Code violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined according to
the penalty schedule set forth in §
90.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 CAPTURE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Every effort will be made by the town’s Police Department and the
Humane Society officials to capture a dangerous animal for impoundment at the
County Humane Society, as well as any other animal that was permitted to be in
violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council designated the County Humane Society as the animal
housing facility for any and all impounded animals. The owner of any impounded
animal shall be responsible for paying all associated costs of any impoundment
of such animal due to a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 BODILY INJURY CAUSED BY ANIMAL.
   In the event that any person owns or harbors an animal which causes bodily
injury to any person, other than fellow members of the owner’s household, shall
be assessed a violation for each such occurrence, and may be subject to
criminal proceedings, as determined by the County Prosecutor’s Office and under
the laws of the state.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Law enforcement official to impound. It shall be the duty of the law
enforcement official on duty to impound any animal found running at large.
   (B)   Animal housing. The Town Council shall designate the County Humane
Society as the animal housing facility.
   (C)   Registration of impounded animals. Upon impounding any animal, the law
enforcement official on duty shall make a complete registry entering the breed,
color, and sex of each animal, and whether the animal has a license tag. If
licensed, the name and address of the owner and the number of the license tag
shall also be entered in the registry.
   (D)   Notice to be posted. Notices of impounded animals shall be posted on
the bulletin board of the Town Hall.
   (E)   Disposition of impounded animals. Any impounded animal shall be held
at the County Humane Society. If it is not reclaimed by the owner within three
days, said animal becomes the property of the
County Humane Society and shall be handled according to their policy regarding
adoption or euthanasia.
   (F)   Fees charged for impounded animal. A fee shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer, according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to
time by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office, for impoundment.
   (G)   Release of impounded animal. Any owner claiming an impounded animal
shall pay the impoundment fee, and any fees imposed by the County Humane
Society, as well as adhere to all rules established by the County Humane
Society.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person deemed to have violated any part of this chapter
shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   First violation. Fifty-dollar fine, and the potential impoundment
of the animal(s) in question. The town’s Code Enforcement Officer shall be
permitted to enter onto the private property owner’s land in order to determine
whether an alleged violation has occurred. The property owner in question shall
have ten days to correct the violation, before a second violation is issued.
The town’s Code Enforcement Officer shall be allowed to enter onto the private
property to determine whether the alleged violation has been corrected within
the ten-day allotted time limit. The Code Enforcement Officer’s decision is
appealable to the Town Council, if a formal request is made by the property
owner to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer within five days of the Code Enforcement
Officer’s decision;
      (2)   Second violation. A $100 fine, and the potential impoundment of the
animal(s) in question. The town’s Code Enforcement Officer shall be permitted
to enter onto the private property owner’s land in order to determine whether
an alleged second violation has occurred.
         (a)   Animal owner shall have five days to correct the violation. The
town’s Code Enforcement Officer shall be allowed to enter onto the private
property to determine whether the second alleged violation has been corrected
within the five-day allotted time limit. The Code Enforcement Officer’s
decision is appealable to the Town Council, if a formal request is made by the
property owner to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer within five days of the Code
Enforcement Officer’s decision.
         (b)   If the deficiency is not cured within the five-day allotted time
limit, or upon a determination by the Town Council that the enforcement
officer’s decision is sound, the Town Council may be permitted to revoke the
animal owner’s permit(s) for a period of up to one year.
      (3)   Subsequent violations. Any violation which is not cured within five
days after the second violation is issued shall constitute a new violation for
each day the defect remains unremedied, punishable by a $100 fine for each new
violation. The Town Council reserves the right to revoke the animal owner’s
permit for up to three years, if a third violation, or any continual violation
is levied on the animal owner in question.
   (B)   Civil action to recover costs of abatement. Upon the failure of the
recipient who was sent the notice of violation and bill to pay the appropriate
fees and charges within the ten-day period for the first violation, and the
five-day period for the second violation, the Town Council may bring a civil
action in court against such recipient to recover the amount billed, plus
reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs.
(Ord. 8 of 2017, passed 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Fireworks; use, discharge, ignition
   
91.02   Open burning
Health Department
   
91.15   Designation; authority
   
91.16   State and county rules control
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIREWORKS; USE, DISCHARGE, IGNITION.
   (A)   The use, discharge or ignition of consumer fireworks by any person or
entity is prohibited in the corporate limits of the Incorporated Town of North
Judson except during the following periods:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July
9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks may be used within the corporate limits of the
Incorporated Town of North Judson only under the provisions of this subchapter.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, the term CONSUMER FIREWORKS
means: a small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible effects
by combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. part 1507.
      (2)   The term also includes some small devices designed to produce an
audible effect, such as composition, and aerial devices containing 50
milligrams or less of explosive composition. Propelling or expelling charges
consisting of a mixture of charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not
considered as designed to produce an audible effect.
      (3)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS include:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes and
chasers; and
         (c)    Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)(b) above.
      (4)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not include:
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers; however, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item. Devices containing chlorate or
perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams in total composition per item;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains;
         (c)   Cone fountains;
         (d)   Illuminating torches;
         (e)   Wheels;
         (f)   Ground spinners;
         (g)   Flitter sparklers;
         (h)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (i)   Smoke devices; or
         (j)   Trick noisemakers, which include party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms.
   (C)   The use, discharge or ignition of all other fireworks are governed by
state statute. No person may use, ignite or discharge consumer fireworks on any
public street or in any public park within the corporate limits of the
Incorporated Town of North Judson at any time.
(Ord. 2008-13, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn any materials, including but not limited
to garbage, rubbish, or noxious materials within the incorporated town limits.
   (B)   Leaves, wood, and yard waste may be burned if attended regularly by an
adult.
   (C)   It shall be legal to burn barbeque materials, not normally of a
noxious nature, and contained by a fireproof container, within the incorporated
Town limits, strictly for the purpose of outdoor grilling of food.
(Prior Code, § 22-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Local air pollution ordinances, see I.C. 13-17-12-1
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 91.15 DESIGNATION; AUTHORITY.
   The county’s Health Department is designated as the Health Department with
authority to act in the town.
(Prior Code, § 30-1)
§ 91.16 STATE AND COUNTY RULES CONTROL.
   State and county statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances shall govern
the duties and enforcement powers of the county’s Health Department.
Appropriate penalties will be determined and enforced by county or state
officials.
(Prior Code, § 30-2)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in provision of brokerage service
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
92.10   Exemptions
   
92.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§
s3601 et seq., the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as
amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined herein.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and/
or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 and 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, nonincorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.09 of this chapter, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
92.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his, her, or their behalf, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be exempted from application of this section only if such house is
sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his, her, or their residence.
   (C)    For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He, she, or they have, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He, she, or they have, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as agent, other than in the sale of his, her, or their own personal residence,
in providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He, she, or they are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or
intended for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §
92.03(B) and §
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in
such a manner that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSIA117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3. above.
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him, her,
or them in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or
participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial
status, or national origin.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his, her, or their
having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his, her, or their having aided
or encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right
granted or protected by § §
92.03, through 92.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his, her, or their race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin and because he, she, or they is
or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting
or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he, she, or they is or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above;
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he, she, or they is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. §§ 5.403 and 574.3, the definition of FAMILY is
revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in §
92.11(B) of this chapter shall be vested in the Town Council President.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town because of
lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein elects to
refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Town Council President,
shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for under
division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Town Council President and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council President, or the Town Council President’s designee,
shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or
complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
92.08, according to local, state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results
shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
Sidewalks
   
93.01   Conformance required
   
93.02   Permit required
   
93.03   Driveways
   
93.04   Alley crossings
   
93.05   Inspection and acceptance
   
93.06   Notice to property owners
   
93.07   Tampering with grade stakes
Excavations
   
93.20   Compliance required
   
93.21   Application for permit to excavate required
   
93.22   Issuance of permit
   
93.23   Bond required
   
93.24   Town Superintendent to supervise
   
93.25   Barriers, braces, and warning devices required
   
93.26   Restoration of surface at site
Special Events
   
93.40   Permit for special events
   
93.41   Application requirements
   
93.42   Standards for permit issuance
   
93.43   Notice of permit denial
   
93.44   Alternative permit
   
93.45   Revocation of permit
   
93.46   Compliance with laws and regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.01 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   All sidewalks made new, replaced, or repaired in the town shall conform with
provisions in this article, as well as with the grades, plans, profiles, and
specifications provided by the Building Commissioner and on file in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office, and as adopted by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 54-21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to build, replace, or repair any sidewalk within
the town shall file an application for a permit with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Said application shall be:
      (1)   Filed before the commencement of any work on the sidewalk, except
where a sidewalk is to be laid in accordance with the provisions of a special
improvement resolution; and
      (2)   Signed by the owner or agent of the abutting property of said
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 54-22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DRIVEWAYS.
   Where a driveway is to be built across the sidewalk space, the driveway
shall conform to the sidewalk grade and shall be six inches in depth and of the
same quality as specified for sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 54-23) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ALLEY CROSSINGS.
   All alley crossings shall be constructed of concrete six inches thick; shall
be of the same finish and material as specified for sidewalks; and shall be
concave or straight as may be ordered by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 54-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE.
   The Building Commissioner shall inspect, and where appropriate, approve the
material used and the building or repair for all sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 54-25) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Town Council, any new sidewalks should
be built, or old sidewalks repaired in the town, the Town Council shall
forthwith give notice to the owner of the abutting property or his, her, or
their agent, if a resident of the town. In case such owner or agent is a
nonresident of the town, the Town Council shall serve such notice by sending a
copy thereof by registered letter to such owner or agent, if the address of
such owner or agent is known.
   (B)   If such owner or agent is a nonresident and his, her, or their address
is unknown, or such real estate is vacant, or unoccupied, and the residence of
the owner or agent is unknown, then a copy of said notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place requiring said owner to build or repair the same within 30
days from the date of service of such notice. In case the owner shall fail to
build or repair any such sidewalk after said notice has been given, then the
town shall proceed to build or repair such sidewalk as deemed appropriate by
the Town Council. The costs, charges, and expenses thereof shall be charged
against the owner of such property and shall be the actual cost of materials
plus the cost of labor, according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified
from time to time by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection
in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, or the actual cost for hired labor, and shall
be subsequently assessed as a lien on the property.
(Prior Code, § 54-26) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 TAMPERING WITH GRADE STAKES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the contractor, at all times while building,
repairing, relaying, or replacing any sidewalk, to see to it that the stakes
indicating the grade of the same have not been tampered with.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to tamper or
interfere with any grade stake for any sidewalk or to deface or disturb any
such sidewalk while it is being constructed. Such action shall be considered an
infraction, punishable with a fine according to a schedule of fines as shall be
modified from time to time by the Town Council and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office as prescribed by the provisions of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 54-27) Penalty, see §
93.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.20 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No excavation shall be made in any public thoroughfare in the town by any
person until and unless he, she, or they has complied with the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54-60) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO EXCAVATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person that desires to excavate into, under, or along a public
thoroughfare shall first make application for a permit in writing to the Town
Council.
   (B)   The applicant shall:
      (1)   Designate in writing the purpose of the excavation, the size and
number of said excavations, and other information as the Town Council requires;
      (2)   Affirm in writing that he, she, or they has met and will meet all
the terms and conditions of this subchapter in making such excavations and
repairs of the surfaces on said thoroughfare;
      (3)   Affirm in writing that said excavation shall be performed with
minimal inconvenience to the public, and the applicant shall provide a plan in
writing therefor; and
      (4)   Affirm in writing that said excavation shall leave the affected
thoroughfare in a condition to afford proper storm drainage, and the applicant
shall provide a plan in writing therefor.
(Prior Code, § 54-61) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall review said application and shall make
recommendations to the Clerk-Treasurer accordingly that the application shall
be approved or denied.
   (B)   Upon the approval of the application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
an excavation permit to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 54-62) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Before a permit shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer under
this subchapter, the person applying for such permit shall give, execute, and
deliver a surety bond to the town, in a sum, to be determined by the Town
Council in relation to the cost for the specific project and conditioned upon
the faithful performance and compliance with all rules and regulations adopted
by the town.
      (2)   Said bond shall also be conditioned to indemnify the town against
any loss to property of persons occasioned by said excavation or repair to such
thoroughfare.
   (B)   Any person may furnish said bond upon an annual basis, and which bond
shall be binding upon any permit subsequently issued during a calendar year to
said applicant.
(Prior Code, § 54-63) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 TOWN SUPERINTENDENT TO SUPERVISE.
   All excavations in public thoroughfares shall be made under the supervision
of the Town Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 54-64) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 BARRIERS, BRACES, AND WARNING DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Red lights, safety lanterns, or flares shall be kept about the
perimeter of the project and lit from sunset to sunrise at all unfinished work
locations, and sufficient barricades to prevent accidents shall be placed
around the excavation sites at all times.
   (B)   Trenches or excavations made in sloughing or water-bearing soils or
that are at least five feet deep and in the immediate vicinity of a structural
foundation shall be sheathed and braced.
(Prior Code, § 54-65) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 RESTORATION OF SURFACE AT SITE.
   (A)   After the completion of the excavation, the permit holder shall
backfill the site with pit-run gravel by either tamping or other methods
required by the Town Superintendent. Should any settling of the street surface
or pavement occur after same has been filled, the permit holder shall, under
the direction of the Town Superintendent, remove and refill the settled area
and restore it to proper specifications at the permit holder’s expense.
   (B)   As soon as the Town Superintendent deems it safe, any hard surface or
pavement removed shall be replaced by the Town Street Department, or its
authorized agent, with the same kind and type of surface or pavement as that
removed.
   (C)   The Town Superintendent shall accurately measure and determine the
amount of surface or paving removed by the excavation and report the same to
the Clerk-Treasurer, along with a statement as to the kind of surface or
pavement removed.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall send a statement of the amount due to such
permit holder for the surface or pavement removed according to the following
schedule:
      (1)   The current fair market value per square foot for concrete,
asphalt, or bituminous concrete on concrete base, asphalt or crushed stone
base, brick on concrete base, brick on concrete filler.
      (2)   The current fair market value per square foot for bituminous or
petroleum product matter.
   (E)   All funds so received by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be entered into the
town’s Street and Alley Fund.
   (F)   In the event that any permit holder fails to pay the town said funds
within 30 days after the Clerk-Treasurer sends said statement, said permit
holder shall pay all damage costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees,
required to enforce the claim, and said bond shall be liable therefor.
(Prior Code, § 54-66) Penalty, see §
93.99
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 93.40 PERMIT FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Any person or organization shall submit an application to obtain a
permit for a block party, parade, or special event.
   (B)   The permit cost will be determined according to a schedule of fees as
shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council and made available for
public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Any street closures associated with the event must be presented to the
Council in writing for approval prior to the event and shall not interfere with
emergency vehicles or be situated in a manner which would impede access to any
fire hydrants.
   (D)   The duration of the event or street closure must be stated on the
application and the permit will be issued only for the approved duration.
(Prior Code, § 54-91) (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.41 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The application for a special event permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such special event;
      (2)   If the special event is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of,
or by an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads
of such organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the special event chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the special event is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such special event; the type of animals, and description
of the vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when such special event will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the special event will occupy all or only
a portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such special
event;
      (10)   The time at which units of the special event will begin to
assemble at any such assembly area;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of such
special event;
      (12)   If the special event is designed to be held by, and on behalf of
or for, any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit
shall file with the Town Council a communication in writing from the person
proposing to hold the special event, authorizing the applicant to apply for the
permit on his, her, or their behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information which the Town Council shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
   (B)   Such application shall be filed not less than seven days before the
date on which it is proposed to conduct the special event.
(Prior Code, § 54-92) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.42 STANDARDS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Town Council shall issue a special event permit when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, it finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the special event will not substantially interrupt the
safe and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the special event will not require the diversion of so
great a number of police officers of this municipality to properly police the
line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the town;
   (C)   The conduct of such special event will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of the town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of activity and
areas contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the special event will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas; and
   (E)   The conduct of such special event will not interfere with the movement
of fire-fighting equipment en route to a fire.
(Prior Code, § 54-93) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.43 NOTICE OF PERMIT DENIAL.
   If the Town Council disapproves the application for a special event permit,
it shall mail to the applicant, within three days after the date upon which the
application was filed, a notice stating the reasons for its action.
(Prior Code, § 54-94) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.44 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council, in denying an application for a special event
permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the special event on a
date, at a time, or over a route different from that named by the applicant.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within five
days after notice of the action of the Town Council, file a written notice of
acceptance with the Town Council.
   (C)   An alternate special event permit shall conform to the requirements
of, and shall have the effect of a special event permit under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 54-95) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.45 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Council shall have the authority, after a hearing affording due
process, to revoke a special event permit issued hereunder upon application of
the standards for issuance as set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 54-96) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.46 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   A person holding a special event permit shall comply with all permit
directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 54-97) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The town shall enjoin and restrain any person violating the specific
requirements of this chapter from further construction, repair, or replacement
and shall impose a fine according to a schedule of fines as shall be modified
from time to time by the Town Council and made available for public inspection
in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, as prescribed by the provisions of §
10.99 of the code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 54-20)
   (C)   The town shall enjoin and restrain any person violating the specific
requirements of this chapter from further excavation and shall impose a fine
according to a schedule of fines as shall be modified from time to time by the
Town Council and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, as prescribed by the provisions of §
10.99 of the code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 54-59)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances on Private Property
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Application of provisions
   
94.03   Prohibited activity; determination
   
94.04   Failure to abate after notice
   
94.05   Variances
   
94.06   Other rules and regulations
Specific Nuisances
   
94.20   Abandoned vehicles
   
94.21   Noise
   
94.22   Material discarded by contractors
   
94.23   Littering
   
94.24   Garbage and rubbish
   
94.25   Weeds and grass; mowing
 
   
94.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Vegetation on private or governmental property that is abandoned,
neglected, disregarded, or not cut, mown, or otherwise removed, and that has
attained a height of 12 inches or more;
      (2)   Vegetation, trees, or woody growth on private property that, due to
its proximity to any governmental property, right-of-way, or easement,
interferes with the public safety or lawful use of the governmental property,
right-of-way, or easement, or that has been allowed to become a health or
safety hazard;
      (3)   A drainage or stormwater management facility, on private or
governmental property, which facility has not been maintained;
      (4)   Private property that has accumulated litter or waste products,
whether it be organic waste, lumber or other material, excluding building
material for new construction, or any other unsightly inorganic material,
unless specifically authorized under existing laws and regulations, that has
otherwise been allowed to become a health or safety hazard;
      (5)   Sanitation, recyclable material, or other garbage or refuse, not
placed in the designated town or other privately provided disposal bins for
pick-up; and
      (6)   Unplated or abandoned vehicles, which have not been moved for a
period of 30 days, excepting therefrom: Any unplated or abandoned vehicle,
which is being repaired by a properly licensed and insured automotive repair or
body shop.
   EXCLUDED PROPERTY.
      (1)   Cultivated land in commercial, domestic, agriculture, or
horticulture use;
      (2)   An existing natural or developed forest that does not create a
health or safety hazard; and
      (3)   A wetland area designated by the United States Department of
Interior Fish and Wildlife Division on a National Wetlands Inventory Map and/or
determined to be a wetland area by the State of Indiana.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY. Real estate that is owned leased, controlled, or
occupied by the United States, the State of Indiana, or any political
subdivision thereof.
   OCCUPANT. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, business
trust, joint stock company, unincorporated organization, religious charitable
organization, or entity who is from time to time in possession or exercising
dominion and control over the real estate or any house or other structure
located thereon. OCCUPANT shall include the lessee of the property.
   OWNER. The record owner or owners, as reflected by the most current records
in the County Assessor’s office.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY or PROPERTY. All real estate within the town’s corporate
limits, except governmental property.
   RECIPIENT. The owner or occupant to whom notice of violation has been
directed.
   REPEAT VIOLATION. When a property owner or occupant, who has previously been
issued notice of a similar environmental public nuisance for the same property,
or who has been found by a hearing or judicial officer to have allowed a
similar environmental public nuisance to exist at that property within 18
months of the date of the previous notice or finding of violation, whichever is
later.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, golf cart or all-terrain vehicle, or any
other motorized mode of transportation that was, at any one time, used for the
purposes of transportation, whether or not said vehicle is still operable and
without regard to whether it contains all of its necessary parts for
transportation at the time of the purported violation.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 94.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each department or agency of the United States, the State of Indiana,
or the Incorporated Town of North Judson, or other political subdivision
thereof, shall be required to keep governmental property within the town free
from environmental public nuisance.
   (B)   All owners, occupants, or other persons in control of any private
property within the town, shall be require to keep governmental property within
the town free from environmental public nuisance.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-6-2019) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner or occupant to allow an
environmental public nuisance to exist. This provision shall not apply to
excluded property.
   (B)   If the town, or any agent of the town, receives a complaint regarding
an environmental public nuisance on any property within the town boundaries,
said agent or town employee shall forward that complaint to the Town Council,
who shall make a record of, and assign a case number to, such complaint. An
authorized individual shall visually inspect the property in question.
   (C)   Notice of violation described in division (B) above, shall be issued
either by personal service, or by first class United States mail, postage
prepaid. Such notice shall state the nature of the alleged environmental public
nuisance and the action deemed necessary to correct the condition, and shall
fix a date not sooner than ten days from the date of the notice for vegetation
of a height of 12 inches or more, and 14 days from the date of the notice for
all other violations under this chapter, when the property will be reinspected.
The notice shall inform the recipient that, if the condition is not corrected
upon reinspection, the Town Council, or its designated representative, has the
right to enter upon the property to abate or correct the condition and bill the
recipient for costs incurred in so doing. A notice to the occupant at the real
estate or to the owner at the address to which property tax statements are sent
as these addresses are shown by the most current records in the County
Assessor’s office, shall be sufficient notice under this division (C).
   (D)   If, upon reinspection, it is determined that the environmental public
nuisance has been corrected, the recipient shall not be liable for any charges
under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-6-2019) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 FAILURE TO ABATE AFTER NOTICE.
   (A)   If, upon reinspection, it is determined by the authorized individual
that abatement has not occurred, or if vegetation of a height of 12 inches or
more is present on a property in the same calendar year in which the town
previously abated a violation of a similar nature on that property, then the
Town Council, or its designee, may enter upon the premises and abate the
environmental public nuisance. The recipient shall be liable for the costs of
abatement. After abatement is completed, the Utilities Department shall, either
by personal service or first class United States mail, postage prepaid, send
the recipient a bill for the costs of abatement.
   (B)   As reimbursement to the town for its costs, the recipient shall,
within ten days of the date of the bill, pay to the town the following fees and
charges:
      (1)   Any disposal fees actually incurred to dispose of litter and waste
products removed;
      (2)   Any other reasonable fees actually incurred in abating an
environmental nuisance, including any towing and other removal costs; and
      (3)   Administrative, labor, and equipment fees may be changed or
established by ordinance or amendment, as necessary to assure that such fees
are adequate to reimburse the town.
   (C)   A recipient may request in writing, within five days following a
notice of violation, an informal hearing before the Town Council at the next
regularly scheduled Town Council meeting, to dispute the existence of a
violation and/or the accuracy of all or part of the costs of abatement billed.
Upon receipt of a hearing request, the Town Council shall not take abatement
action until after the Town Council notifies the recipient of its decision.
After such hearing, the Town Council shall determine the existence of a
violation and/or the accuracy of all or part of the abatement costs billed and
shall notify the recipient of any amounts due to the department. The decision
of the town shall be final.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-6-2019) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 VARIANCES.
   An owner or occupant may submit a written request for a variance to the Town
Council, if compliance with this chapter will cause undue hardship to such
owner or occupant without a sufficient corresponding benefit to the health or
safety of the public. To receive consideration, such request must be received
prior to the time the town abates the environmental nuisance on the property.
Upon receipt of a request, the Town Council shall schedule a hearing and notify
the owner or occupant of the time and place. At least ten days prior to the
hearing, the owner or occupant shall notify in writing the owners and occupants
of all property within 150 feet of the property for which the variance is
requested. The notice shall state the location of the property for which the
variance is requested, the nature of the variance requested, and the time and
place of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner or occupant requesting the
variance, representatives of the town, representatives of state or local
governmental health authorities, and any person affected by the proposed
variance may present evidence. After the hearing, the Town Council may grant or
deny the request. The decision of the Town Council shall be final. Within ten
days of the decision, written notice of the Town Council’s decision shall be
given to the owner or occupant who requested the variance.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-6-2019) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 OTHER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Council may, by resolution, promulgate rules and regulations
necessary to implement and carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-6-2019) Penalty, see §
94.99
SPECIFIC NUISANCES
§ 94.20 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon a vehicle or parts on any public or private
property.
   (A)   The town’s Police Department is hereby assigned the responsibility for
removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles, and shall be the
designated “public agency” pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-3 and this section.
   (B)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the
abandonment and is liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle,
for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the
vehicle or its parts. The total cost for storage of an abandoned vehicle may
not exceed, an amount of which shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time.
   (C)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency, address, and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to removal, storage, and disposal, and if the costs are not
paid, the person’s registration privileges will be suspended on the vehicle;
and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
   (D)   Prior to tagging of any abandoned vehicle that, in the opinion of the
officer, has a market value of more than an amount which shall be set by the
Town Council from time to time, the officer shall make a reasonable effort to
ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of
the vehicle or parts.
   (E)   (1)   If a vehicle or part tagged by an officer is not removed within
the 72-hour period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle
report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing
parts, and other facts that might substantiate the estimated market value of
the vehicle or parts.
      (2)   Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle
or parts. The abandoned vehicle report shall also include the make, model, VIN
number, and the number of the license plate and request that the Bureau advise
the Code Enforcement Officer of the name and most recent mailing address of the
owner and of any lienholder.
   (F)   In the event that the vehicle or parts were valued at more than an
amount, which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, by the
officer, the abandoned vehicle report shall also set forth the actions taken by
the officer pursuant to the duty of inquiry set forth above.
   (G)   If the market value of an abandoned vehicle or parts as determined by
the opinion of the officer set forth in the written abandoned vehicle report is
a certain amount which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, the
officer shall immediately dispose of the vehicle to an automobile scrap yard. A
copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs relating to the abandoned
vehicle shall be forwarded to the Bureau. The Police Department (the “public
agency disposing of the vehicle”) shall retain the original records and
photographs for at least two years.
   (H)   If the market value of an abandoned vehicle or parts as determined by
the opinion of the officer set forth in the written abandoned vehicle report is
a certain amount which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, and
after the officer has fulfilled his, her, or their duty of inquiry pursuant to
this section and after the vehicle has been duly tagged and the 72-hour period
for removal by the person who owns the vehicle has elapsed, the officer shall
require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
   (I)   Upon receipt of the requested information from the Bureau, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall advise the owner or any lienholder that the vehicle
or parts has been impounded at a certain location, that the vehicle or parts
must be claimed within 20 days of the date of mailing the notice, and that the
vehicle or parts will be disposed of after that time. The notice shall also
advise the owner that all costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or
parts are the owner’s legal responsibility.
   (J)   If the owner or lienholder appears to claim the vehicle before the 20-
day time period has elapsed, he, she, or they shall be entitled to claim the
impounded vehicle. The costs of towing, storing, and keeping of the impounded
vehicle must be paid to the service holding the vehicle before the vehicle may
be released. If the owner or lienholder does not appear in 20 days to claim the
impounded vehicle, the service holding or storing the vehicle will become the
record holder of the vehicle. If the service holding or storing the impounded
vehicle does not wish to retain the impounded vehicle, and the 20-day holding
period has elapsed without response from the owner or lienholder, the service
may sell the vehicle to the highest bidder at a public sale conducted after
notice under the Indiana Code, except only one newspaper insertion one week
before the public sale is required. In the alternative, the unit may sell the
vehicle or part as unclaimed property under the Indiana Code. The 20-day period
for the property to remain unclaimed is sufficient for a sale under this
division (J).
   (K)   If the vehicle is in such condition that the vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
owner of record with the Bureau, the vehicle may be disposed of without notice
as permitted by the Indiana Code.
   (L)   Upon complaint of a private property owner or persons in control of
the property upon which a vehicle has been left for at least 48 hours without
the consent of the owner or persons in control, an officer shall follow the
procedures set forth in this section for removal of the vehicle.
   (M)   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this section:
      (1)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed;
      (2)   A public agency, including without limitation, the Town Marshal or
Marshal’s Deputy;
      (3)   A towing service;
      (4)   An automobile scrap yard; or
      (5)   A storage yard.
   (N)   This section does not apply to the following vehicles:
      (1)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately-owned raceways;
      (2)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the Armed Forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
      (3)   A vehicle located on a designated vehicle sales lot or at a
commercial vehicle servicing facility;
      (4)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; or
      (5)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18.5 as an antique
motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-42) (Ord. 10-1992, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned motor vehicles, see I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.
§ 94.21 NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to create continuing loud, unnecessary, or
unusual noise, which interferes with the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others, except for that noise which is necessary for the protection or
preservation of property or the health or safety of a person.
   (B)   Said noises include, but are not limited to, noises created by one or
more automobiles, musical instruments, animals, public address systems or
sound-amplifying equipment, or other electronic devices, except for those for
which a permit has been issued for purposes of a public gathering.
(Prior Code, § 22-81) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 MATERIAL DISCARDED BY CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Any contractor performing work within the corporate limits of the town
shall be required to clean up and properly remove any discarded material
related to the project upon completion.
(Prior Code, § 22-100)
   (B)   Discarded material shall include but not be limited to trash, debris,
siding, wood, windows, shingles, leaves, grass clippings, mulch, brush, and
tree limbs.
(Prior Code, § 22-101)
(Ord. 2006-08, passed 5-1-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any paper, rubbish, or
other garbage in any manner other than placing the material in an approved
public or private waste container.
(Prior code, § 50-19) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   All garbage and rubbish receptacles shall meet the following
specifications:
      (1)   They shall be made of sturdy, water-tight plastic, rubber, or
metal, with two handles or a bail;
      (2)   They shall have a capacity of no more than 50 gallons and a gross
weight when filled of no more than 100 pounds;
      (3)   The owner of the receptacle shall keep it in a sanitary condition;
      (4)   They shall have a close-fitting cover and be covered at all times;
and
      (5)   The garbage and rubbish contained therein shall be bagged and not
loose.
(Prior Code, § 50-45)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a private dump or dump
garbage or rubbish on any private or public property within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 50-46)
   (C)   The following items shall not be disposed of as garbage or rubbish:
      (1)   Human waste or sewage;
      (2)   Animal carcasses;
      (3)   Biohazardous medical waste, including but not limited to used
syringes, human bodily fluids, and items saturated with any human bodily fluid;
      (4)   Paint, motor oil, solvents; or
      (5)   Explosive material, including, but not limited to, dynamite,
dynamite caps, firearm ammunition, and gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 50-47)
   (D)   (1)   A residential customer within the corporate limits of the town
shall be assessed the minimum monthly fee in an amount as established by the
Town Council for trash removal.
      (2)   No credit shall be given for nonuse or for vacant residences,
whether it be temporary or on a permanent basis.
(Prior Code, § 50-48)
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 WEEDS AND GRASS; MOWING.
   (A)   Any grass or weeds, saplings, or natural growth on any yard or lot
shall not exceed eight inches in height.
   (B)   If a homeowner/renter allows the growth to exceed a height of eight
inches, then he, she, or they shall be issued a citation.
   (C)   For first time offenses per season, the homeowner/renter shall be sent
notification advising him, her, or them that they have ten days to mow his,
her, or their property and if compliance is not made within the ten-day
guideline, the town will perform the mowing of said yard or lot and a lien in
an amount which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time shall be
placed against the owner’s property at the County Courthouse. A homeowner/
renter will be sent only one notice per season.
   (D)   For second and subsequent violations per season, notice will be
provided pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.l-3(c) and I.C. 36-7-10.1-4.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the failure of the recipient who was sent the notice of
violation and bill to pay the appropriate fees and charges within the ten-day
period, the Town Council may bring a civil action in court against such
recipient to recover the amount billed, plus reasonable attorney’s fees and
court costs.
      (2)   Any owner or occupant found in violation of §§
94.01 through
94.06 may be fined not more than $100 for each violation. Each day such
violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate violation.
         (a)   A previous violation may be considered in determining the
penalty assessed. A finding that a violation has occurred or an admission that
a violation has occurred is not required to assess and recover a penalty, if
the recipient subject to the penalty agrees to pay the penalty, pursuant to
either an agreed judgment or consent decree in a court action for a violation.
         (b)   A recipient may be fined not more than $250 for each repeat
violation. Each day such repeat violation is permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate violation under this division (B)(2).
         (c)   The town may publish a list of the names of owners and occupants
who have been cited for a repeat violation under §§
94.01 through
94.06, and the addresses of the affected properties. The Town Council shall
determine the frequency of publication.
   (C)   Any person violating a provision of §
94.20 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an offense and fined not less
than according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to time by
the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office, for the first offense, not less than according to a
schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council,
and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, for a
second offense, and not less than according to a schedule of fees, as shall be
modified from time to time by the Town Council, and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for all subsequent offenses, but no
fine shall exceed according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from
time to time by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 22-41)
   (D)   Any contractor found to be in violation of §
94.22 shall be given notice to properly remove the materials within ten days.
If the ten-day requirement is not met, then said contractor shall be assessed a
fine according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to time by
the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office, for each day which exceeds the ten-day limitation, and his,
her, or their contractor’s permit will be revoked until the end of the year,
after the third day of noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § 22-102)
(Ord. 10-1992, passed 9-8-1992; Ord. 2006-08, passed 5-1-2006; Ord. 2019-01,
passed 5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Town cemeteries
   
95.02   Appointment of caretaker and duties
   
95.03   Town Council duties
   
95.04   Clerk-Treasurer duties
   
95.05   Supervision of cemetery
   
95.06   Donations to cemetery fund
   
95.07   Provisions not addressed
Grounds Regulations
   
95.20   Interments and disinterments
   
95.21   Vaults and cremains containers
   
95.22   Sale of lots
   
95.23   Cemetery monuments and headstones
   
95.24   Corner markers of lots
   
95.25   Lot and/or grave enclosures forbidden
   
95.26   Grading of lots
   
95.27   Improvement of lots by private persons
   
95.28   Access to grounds by private persons
   
95.29   Decorations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 TOWN CEMETERIES.
   The cemeteries under the care and control of the Town Council are Pioneer
Cemetery and Highland Cemetery.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 95.02 APPOINTMENT OF CARETAKER AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint or contract by majority vote a Cemetery
Caretaker.
   (B)   The duties of the Cemetery Caretaker under this chapter shall include,
but may not be limited to, the following: maintain the cemeteries for the term
and in the manner as described in the cemetery contract.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 95.03 TOWN COUNCIL DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Town Council under this chapter include, but
may not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   The protection of cemeteries and the sanctity of the dead;
   (B)   The regulation or prohibition of the interment of bodies or cremains;
and
   (C)   The authorization of the removal of buried bodies or whole cemeteries
to some other place.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 95.04 CLERK-TREASURER DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Clerk-Treasurer under this chapter include, but
may not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   The collection, preservation, and payment of all money, funds,
securities, obligations, and property of any kind related to cemetery purposes;
   (B)   Protection, care, and control of the town cemeteries and the sanctity
of the dead;
   (C)   Regulation, prohibition, and supervision of interments and
disinterments;
   (D)   Authorization and supervision of the removal of buried bodies to some
other place;
   (E)   Authorization and supervision of improvement and grading of grounds
and lots;
   (F)   Authorization and supervision of placements of monuments and
headstones on cemetery lots;
   (G)   Authorization and supervision of erection of corner posts on cemetery
lots; and
   (H)   Authorization and supervision and direction of any improvement to or
labor upon any lot by private persons.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 95.05 SUPERVISION OF CEMETERY.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to compel all persons coming into the
cemetery to obey all rules and regulations adopted by the town. The Town
Council may change the rules and regulations without notice to any owner.
   (B)   The town shall take reasonable precaution to protect owners, and the
property rights of owners, within the cemetery, from loss or damage; but it
distinctly disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage from causes beyond
its reasonable control, i.e., damage caused by the elements, an act of God,
thieves, vandals, and the like.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Council reserves, and shall have, the right to correct
any errors that may be made by it either in making interments, disinterments or
removals, or in the inscriptions, transfer or conveyance and substituting and
conveying in lieu thereof other interments rights of equal value and similar
location as far as possible, or as may be selected by the Town Council, or in
the sole discretion of the Town Council, by refunding the amount of money paid
on account of said purchase.
      (2)   In the event such error shall involve the interment of the remains
of any person in such property, the Town Council reserves and shall have the
right to remove and transfer such remains of interred to such other property of
equal value and similar location as may be substituted and conveyed in lieu
thereof.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Council reserves, and shall have, the right to enlarge,
reduce, re-plat or change boundaries or grading of the cemetery or a section or
sections, from time to time, including the right to modify or change the
locations of/or any part thereof or remove or re-grade roads, drives, and
walks, is hereby expressly reserved.
      (2)   The right to lay, maintain or operate, alter or change pipelines
for sprinkling systems, is also expressly reserved, as well as is the right to
use cemetery property, not sold to individual owners, for cemetery purposes,
including the interring and preparing for interment of deceased human bodies,
or for anything necessary, incidental or convenience thereto. The Town Council
reserves to itself and to those lawfully entitled thereto, a perpetual right of
ingress and egress over lots for the purpose of passage to and from other lots.
   (E)   Automobiles shall not be driven through the grounds at a speed greater
than 15 mph, and shall always be kept on the right side of the cemetery
roadways. Automobiles are not allowed to turn around on the driveways or
roadways, and are not allowed to park or come to a full stop in front of an
open grave unless such automobile is in attendance at the funeral.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DONATIONS TO CEMETERY FUND.
   (A)   Any person desiring to donate money for the general care, upkeep,
improvement, or beautification of the town’s cemeteries may do so by delivering
said monies to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall accredit said monies to the
Cemetery Fund of the town.
   (B)   The Cemetery Fund of the town shall be used exclusively for the care,
upkeep, improvement, and beautification of the town cemeteries and shall be
used for no other purposes.
   (C)   If a gift, donation, bequest, or devise of money or real or personal
property is given or made for the use of a particular lot or plot of ground,
the income from the gift, donation, bequest, or devise may be used only for the
upkeep and maintenance of that particular lot or plot of ground.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 95.07 PROVISIONS NOT ADDRESSED.
   Any provisions included in I.C. 23-14-65 that are not specifically addressed
in this chapter are governed by applicable state statute.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
GROUNDS REGULATIONS
§ 95.20 INTERMENTS AND DISINTERMENTS.
   No interment or disinterment shall occur except upon presentation of a
written permit to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 VAULTS AND CREMAINS CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All interments shall include a vault made of concrete, steel, or an
indestructible material in which the casket will be placed. All vaults shall be
manufactured and installed by an authorized professional vault distributor.
   (B)   All interments of cremains shall include a container made of concrete,
steel, or an indestructible material in which the cremains will be placed
before burial. All cremains containers shall be made by an authorized
manufacturer and the burial shall be handled by an established funeral director
who is properly licensed by the state.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 SALE OF LOTS.
   The sale of lots in the town cemeteries and the prices therefor shall occur
in a manner as determined by majority vote of the Town Council. The sale or
transfer of lots and/or graves in the town cemeteries between “individuals”
shall be recorded on a Quit Claim Deed, approved by the Town Council or Clerk-
Treasurer, and recorded by the Clerk-Treasurer before it becomes official.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 CEMETERY MONUMENTS AND HEADSTONES.
   Requirements for monuments/headstones and foundations are as follows:
   (A)   Constructed or made of granite, stone, metal, or an indestructible
material;
   (B)   Foundation Requirements: Made of concrete; four-inch margin extending
around monument; depth - one-piece marker: 24 inches deep; two-piece monument:
36 inches deep; if extended: 30 inches deep; government marker at foot: 18
inches deep. Foundations shall be installed within the boundaries of the grave;
and
   (C)   Placement shall be approved by the Town Council or Clerk-Treasurer and
shall occur under the direction of the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall first be
instructed as to the exact location within the lot where monument is to be
placed. The location of a monument/headstone shall be at the west end of a
grave and installed safely.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 CORNER MARKERS AND LOTS.
   Requirements for corner markers to mark the boundaries of cemetery lots are
as follows:
   (A)   Made of iron or an indestructible material;
   (B)   Placed so as not to extend above the surface of the ground; and
   (C)   Placement of corner markers shall be approved by the Town Council or
Clerk-Treasurer and shall occur under the direction of the Clerk-Treasurer, and
shall be by an authorized professional surveyor.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.25 LOT AND/OR GRAVE ENCLOSURES FORBIDDEN.
   No cemetery lot and/or grave shall be enclosed by or have placed on or
around it any type of wall, fencing, curbing, and the like. No ground cover
other than grass is allowed on cemetery lots and/or graves. Grave mounds will
not be allowed, and no lot and/or grave shall be raised above the established
grade. Also, no marking flags are permitted on any grave or lot.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.26 GRADING OF LOTS.
   The Town Council or Clerk-Treasurer shall direct the grading of all cemetery
lots as needed.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 95.27 IMPROVEMENT OF LOTS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   Any labor or service rendered by a lot owner or others to care for or
improve any lot shall be performed under the supervision and direction of the
Town Council or Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.28 ACCESS TO GROUNDS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   A lot owner or proprietor and his, her, or their family and friends may have
dawn to dusk access to the grounds, subject to rules and regulations as adopted
by the Town Council. Watering hours will be posted as approved by the Town
Council. All watering shall be done with a responsible person present, and all
watering equipment removed from the cemetery at the end of watering.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.29 DECORATIONS.
   (A)   The placing of any natural or artificial flowers in any decorative
form or any other decorative item upon any grave or lot in the town cemeteries
is forbidden except for those placed in a container or planted, and shall be
contained within the boundary of the grave, but not more than 12 inches from
the foundation edge.
      (1)   Any containers shall be movable for purposes of mowing and care of
graves and lots.
      (2)   The Town Council or Clerk-Treasurer may remove or order removed any
decorations that appear faded, withered, or deteriorated.
      (3)   Permanent plantings are restricted to those of a dwarf nature and
shall be placed within 12 inches of the grave or lot’s monument or marker
foundation edge and within the lot or grave boundary. Trees, bushes, and shrubs
are not allowed on graves or lots with the following exception: Any tree, bush,
or shrub planted on a lot and/or grave prior to October 1, 2012, shall be
trimmed to within the lot boundary, and, shall be allowed to remain until such
time any tree, bush, or shrub is determined by the Town Council or Clerk-
Treasurer to be detrimental to surrounding lots and/or graves or to the town
cemetery in general. If such a determination is made by the Town Council or
Clerk-Treasurer, an attempt will be made to notify the “owner” of the lot(s)
and or grave(s) to advise them to remove the tree, bush, or shrub by a specific
date. If the tree, bush, or shrub is not removed by the specified date, the
town will have the tree, bush, or shrub removed at owner’s expense. No
“replacement” tree, bush, or shrub will be allowed to be planted. In addition,
if the “owner” chooses to remove any tree, bush, or shrub on their lot(s) or
grave(s), no “replacement” tree, bush, or shrub will be allowed to be planted.
      (4)   Grave blankets may be placed on a grave or lot, but may only remain
there between November 1 of a given year and March 1 of the subsequent year.
      (5)   No decorations or flowers are to be placed on west side of
foundation in order to preserve the walkways.
   (B)   All potted plants and artificial decorations in the Highland and
Pioneer Cemeteries will be removed during the month of April as published and
posted by the Town Council. Any decorations that are desired to be kept shall
be removed prior to the published date, and may be replaced after May 15.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the sections of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine according to a schedule of fines, as shall be modified from time to time
by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office, as prescribed in the provisions found in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   CONTRACTORS
      
112.   RUMMAGE/YARD SALES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Exception
   
110.03   Door-to-door peddling or soliciting
   
110.04   License required
   
110.05   Application requirements
   
110.06   Special requirements for edible products
   
110.07   Issuance of license
   
110.08   Investigation
   
110.09   Licenses from other cities
   
110.10   Administrative revocation
   
110.11   Hearing on appeal
   
110.12   Visible identification required
   
110.13   License stipulations
   
110.14   “No visit” list
   
110.15   General prohibitions; restricted locations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. A person who attempts to make personal contact with a person at
that person’s residence, without prior specific invitation or appointment, for
the primary purpose of attempting to solicit support for or against a
particular religion, philosophy, ideology, political party, candidate, issue,
or ballot question, even if incidental to such purpose the canvasser accepts
the donation of money for or against such cause.
   PEDDLER. A person who attempts to make personal contact with a person at
that person’s residence, without specific invitation or appointment from the
resident, for the primary purpose of attempting to sell a good or service. A
PEDDLER does not include a person who distributes handbills or flyers for a
commercial purpose, advertising an event, activity, good, or service that is
offered to the resident for purchase at a location away from the residence or
at a time different from the time of visit. Such a person is a “solicitor.”
   SOLICITOR. A person who attempts to make personal contact with a person at
that person’s residence, without prior specific invitation or appointment from
the resident, for the primary purpose of attempting to obtain a donation to a
particular patriotic, philanthropic, social service, welfare, benevolent,
educational, civic, fraternal, charitable, political, or religious purpose,
even if incidental to such purpose there is the sale of some good or service.
(Prior Code, § 42-19)
§ 110.02 EXCEPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to a federal, state, or local government
employee or a public utility employee in the performance of his, her, or their
duty for his, her, or their employer.
(Prior Code, § 42-21)
§ 110.03 DOOR-TO-DOOR PEDDLING OR SOLICITING.
   No person shall engage in house-to-house selling, peddling, soliciting,
hawking, acting as a transient merchant, or any similar activity within the
limits of the town without first applying at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and
obtaining a peddler’s or solicitor’s license as provided in this chapter.
School children under age 18 shall be allowed to sell goods house-to-house
without a license, as long as they are being sold for a school fundraiser, or
approved community organization such as Girl Scouts or Boy Scouts.
(Prior Code, § 42-22) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-1-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall call at any residence or place of business with the intent
or purpose of peddling or soliciting, as provided in this chapter, without
having in his, her, or their possession a license authorizing such peddling or
solicitation. No license shall be in the possession of any person other than
the one to whom it is issued. A canvasser is not required to obtain a license,
but any canvasser wanting a license for the purpose of reassuring municipal
residents shall be issued one upon meeting license application requirements.
(Prior Code, § 42-23) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-1-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person or organization (formal or informal) may apply for one or
more licenses by completing an application form at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer during regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 42-24)
   (B)   At the time of filing the application, a fee according to a schedule
of fees as shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council and made
available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, shall be paid
to the Clerk-Treasurer for one license, plus an additional fee for each
additional license issued to additional persons within the same organization.
(Prior Code, § 42-25)
   (C)   Applications for a license under this chapter must be filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer in writing, in duplicate, and shall provide the following
information:
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold;
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employers, together with
the credentials establishing the exact relationship between the two parties;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is required;
      (6)   (a)   The vehicle to be used, if any, a description of such
vehicle, along with the license number or other means of identification. For
each vehicle used, the applicant shall file a certificate of insurance with the
application establishing that liability insurance in minimum amounts for bodily
injury and property damage, in amounts which shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time, is in effect, and that each vehicle so used shall have
displayed upon each side of the vehicle, in plain, legible print, the name and
address of the owner, and the kind of goods for sale;
         (b)   A fee for each vehicle used shall be paid in the amount
determined according to a schedule of fees as shall be modified from time to
time by the Town Council and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office;
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days prior to the
date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be approximately two
inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguishing manner; and
      (8)   Social Security number and a statement as to whether or not the
applicant has been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.
(Prior Code, § 42-26)
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.06 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR EDIBLE PRODUCTS.
   Each applicant dealing in an edible product or traveling from house to house
shall file with his, her, or their application a statement by a licensed
physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the submission of the
application, certifying that the applicant is free of infectious, contagious,
or communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 42-27) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Licenses shall be issued promptly after application but in all cases within
two business days of filing the application, unless it is determined within
that time that:
   (A)   The applicant has been convicted of a felony, or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, within the past seven years;
   (B)   With respect to a particular card, the individual for whom a card is
requested has been convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude, within the past seven years; or
   (C)   Any statement within the application is false, unless the applicant
can demonstrate that the falsehood was the result of excusable neglect.
(Prior Code, § 42-28)
§ 110.08 INVESTIGATION.
   During the time period following the application for one or more licenses
and the issuance thereof, the town may investigate as to the truth and accuracy
of the information contained in the application. If the town has not completed
this investigation within the required time period, the license nonetheless
will be issued subject to administrative revocation upon completion of the
investigation. If a canvasser requests a license, the investigation shall
proceed. If the town refuses to issue the license, or revokes it after
issuance, the canvasser shall be informed that the failure to obtain the
license does not prevent him, her, or them from canvassing the residents of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 42-29)
§ 110.09 LICENSES FROM OTHER CITIES.
   As an alternative to the application procedure, if an applicant can provide
a valid license from another local government entity with a substantially
similar application process, the issuing officer has discretion to immediately
issue a license without the necessity of a formal application or investigation.
(Prior Code, § 42-30)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATIVE REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   If the issuing officer denies (or upon completion of an
investigation revokes) the license for one or more persons the officer shall
immediately convey the decision to the applicant orally and shall within two
business days after the denial (or revocation) prepare a written report of the
reason for the denial, which shall be made available immediately to the
applicant.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the oral notification, even before the preparation
of the written report, the applicant at his, her, or their option may appeal
the denial (or revocation) to the Town Council.
   (B)   For an appeal, the Town Council shall hear the appeal at its next
regular meeting, or if the next regular meeting is more than ten days from the
denial of the application, the appeal shall be heard at a special meeting
within that ten-day period. Due notice shall be provided to the public and the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 42-31)
§ 110.11 HEARING ON APPEAL.
   The hearing shall be subject to the state’s Open Meetings Law, being I.C. 5-
14-1.5.1 et seq. and Open Records Law, being I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 42-32)
§ 110.12 VISIBLE IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Any and all persons procuring a license under this chapter shall
conspicuously wear upon his, her, or their person a badge or means of
identification reflecting his, her, or their identity and the license which has
been issued by the town.
(Prior Code, § 42-33) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.13 LICENSE STIPULATIONS.
   (A)   A license shall be valid within the meaning of this chapter for a
period of six months from its date of issuance or the term requested, whichever
is less.
(Prior Code, § 42-34)
   (B)   All issued licenses shall be nontransferable and nonrefundable.
(Prior Code, § 42-35)
   (C)   In addition to administrative revocation of a license, a license may
be revoked for the following reasons:
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter by applicant or by the person for
whom the particular card was issued;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statement made in the course
of carrying on the activity;
      (3)   Conviction of a felony, or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude,
within the last seven years; or
      (4)   Conducting the activity in such a manner as to constitute a breach
of the peace, disorderly conduct, or menace to the health, safety, or general
welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 42-36)
§ 110.14 “NO VISIT” LIST.
   (A)   The issuing officer shall maintain a list of persons within the
municipality who restrict unsolicited visits to their residential property
(including their leasehold) by peddlers, solicitors, and canvassers. The
issuing officer may provide a form to assist residents, and this form may allow
residents to select certain types of visits that the resident finds acceptable,
while refusing permission to others. This “no visit” list shall be a public
document, available for public inspection and copying.
   (B)   A copy of the “no visit” list shall be provided to each applicant for
and recipient of a license. If a canvasser does not apply for a license, it
will be the responsibility of the canvasser to obtain a copy of the “no visit”
list.
(Prior Code, § 42-37)
§ 110.15 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; RESTRICTED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No peddler, solicitor, or canvasser shall:
         (a)   Enter upon any private property where on said property is
clearly posted in the front yard a sign visible from the right-of-way (public
or private) indicating a prohibition against peddling, soliciting, or
canvassing. Such sign may contain words such as “no soliciting” or “no
solicitors.” The phrase “no soliciting” and “no solicitors” also shall prohibit
peddlers and canvassers, unless otherwise stated;
         (b)   Remain upon any private property where a notice in the form of a
sign or sticker is placed upon any door or entranceway leading into the
residence or dwelling at which guests would normally enter, which sign contains
the words “no soliciting” or “no solicitors” and which is clearly visible to
the peddler, solicitor, or canvasser;
         (c)   Enter upon any private property where the current occupant has
posted the municipality’s “no visit” list, except where the posting form
indicates the occupant has given permission for that particular type of visit;
         (d)   Use or attempt to use any entrance other than the front or main
entrance to the dwelling, or step from the sidewalk or indicated walkway (where
one exists) leading from the right-of-way to the front or main entrance, except
by express invitation of the resident or occupant of the property; and/or
         (e)   Remove any yard sign, door or entrance sign that gives notice to
such person that the resident or occupant does not invite visitors.
      (2)   The above prohibitions do not apply when the peddler, solicitor, or
canvasser has an express invitation from the resident or occupant of a dwelling
to enter upon a posted property.
(Prior Code, § 42-38)
       (B)   Permissible hours for peddling, soliciting, and canvassing shall
be between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., during the time period stated
on the license.
(Prior Code, § 42-39)
   (C)   No person, individual, copartner, corporation, or organization shall
be allowed to peddle or solicit or interfere with the flow of traffic in any
way at the intersection of State Highways 10 and 39 South.
(Prior Code, § 42-67)
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-1-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, individual, copartner, corporation, or organization found to be
in violation of this chapter shall immediately cease operation and be assessed
a fine in the amount according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from
time to time by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for the first offense, an amount according to a
schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council,
and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for
the second offense, and an amount according to a schedule of fees, as shall be
modified from time to time by the Town Council, and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for each subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 42-68) (Ord. 2006-03, passed 4-17-2006)
CHAPTER 111: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Contractor’s registration permit
   
111.03   Insurance
   
111.04   Contract registration requirements
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Contractor Registration Ordinance of North Judson, Indiana” and supersedes
any previous contractor registration ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 111.02 CONTRACTOR’S REGISTRATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Any landowner or homeowner who builds or remodels on property owned by
said landowner or homeowner does not need to be registered as a contractor.
However, any building or remodeling done by the landowner or homeowner is
subject to all other sections and fees of the Building Ordinance. All
subcontractors hired by the landowner or homeowner shall be registered under
this chapter.
   (B)   No contractor shall perform any work in the town without first
obtaining a contractor’s registration permit from the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
Any contractor who contracts with the general public to perform work regulated
by this chapter must be registered with the town to do such work. CONTRACTOR,
as used within this chapter, means any individual, firm, partnership,
corporation, association or other organization, or any combination thereof, who
or which by himself, herself, themself, or itself, or by or through others,
constructs, alters, repairs, adds to, subtracts from, reconstructs or remodels
any building, structure or appurtenance thereto, or who or which undertakes or
offers to undertake, or purports to have the capacity to undertake, or submits
a bid to do such work. The term CONTRACTOR includes a subcontractor and all
specialty contractors whose operations as such are the performance of
construction work requiring special skills, including, but not limited to,
building construction, plumbing, electrical, air conditioning and heating,
roofing, excavating, sewage, septic installation, masonry, general contracting,
and whose principal business involves the use of specialized building trades
and crafts. Any subcontractor who performs work which requires a special or
trade permit under the provisions of this chapter must be registered with the
town to do such work.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 INSURANCE.
   Before being granted a contractor’s registration permit, each applicant
shall furnish the following information:
   (A)   Public liability and property damage insurance in an amount not less
than $1,000,000 in case of damage or injury to one or more persons; and
   (B)   Certificate of insurance made out to the town. All insurance and bonds
shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state.
Failure to provide such certificate of insurance shall be grounds for denying
the application for a contractor’s registration permit.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 111.04 CONTRACT REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   After proper application, the Clerk-Treasurer will issue a
contractor’s registration permit. The applicant will pay a designated fee as
listed on a schedule of fees in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. All permits are
valid until December 31 of the calendar year in which they were issued, or
until the expiration date of the certificate of insurance.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the insurance renewal, a replacement permit will be
issued with an expiration date of December 31 of the calendar year in which the
permit was issued.
   (B)   (1)   Once a contractor has had a registration issued, renewal of such
registration shall be on or before February 15 with the payment of the
designated fee and completion of renewed application.
      (2)   Failure to renew a registration by February 15 will require the
contractor to pay an additional late renewal fee, as listed in a schedule of
fees in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   The contract registration issued by the town shall not be transferable
to any other firm, name, or business other than the name to which it was
originally issued. The contract registration issued by the town confirms
insurance coverage was in place on the date the permit was issued. The contract
registration issued by the town does not confirm the actual qualifications of
the contractor or the quality of their potential work.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to revoke or suspend any registration
issued, upon its investigation, upon satisfactory proof that the holder of the
registration permit has willfully, intentionally, or repeatedly violated any
provisions of the code or laws of the state pertaining to his, her, or their
business, for incompetence or misconduct in the practice of his, her, or their
business, for deceit or fraud in obtaining the registration, for irresponsible
financial practices, or for any other reason specified in the chapter.
   (B)   If a contractor fails to obtain a permit as outlined in §
111.02, they shall be imposed a fine, an amount which shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time. If there is a failure to pay or a continued
violation, the individual will be subject to the provisions of this chapter and
all additional fines/fees as listed in a schedule of fees in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office, which allows for the assessment of fines not to exceed an
amount which shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, plus attorney
fees and costs of enforcement should legal action be necessary.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 6-2-2014)
CHAPTER 112: RUMMAGE/YARD SALES
Section
   
112.01   Permits for personal sales
   
112.02   Advertising sales
   
112.03   Fixed and established businesses
   
112.04   Farmer’s markets
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PERMITS FOR PERSONAL SALES.
   (A)   No rummage, garage, or yard sale, or flea market may be conducted in
the town without first obtaining a permit authorizing said activity from the
town.
   (B)   A permit must be acquired from the Clerk-Treasurer’s office prior to
the occurrence of each sale and said permit must be posted in a conspicuous
location at the site of said sale.
   (C)   No person or organization shall conduct a rummage, garage, or yard
sale, or flea market for more than four days in a 90-day period. A fee
according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to time by the
Town Council and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, will be charged for each two-day or lesser time thereof. A maximum of
two permits will be allowed in any 90-day period.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 ADVERTISING SALES.
   (A)   Upon obtaining a rummage, garage, or yard sale, or flea market permit
a person or organization shall be issued four advertising signs which may be
placed within the town’s rights-of-way or easements.
   (B)   Upon the completion of the rummage, garage, or yard sale, or flea
market, the permittee shall remove all advertising signs from the town’s
rights-of-way or easements. All yard sale debris, including but not limited to
merchandise, displays, display tables, garbage, and signs, shall be removed
from the yard sale area not more than 24 hours after each permit expires.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person or organization to affix to any
pole, post, tree, stake, or other structure located on town rights-of-way or
easement a sign or advertisement for a rummage, garage, or yard sale, or flea
market.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 FIXED AND ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A FIXED AND ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS is hereby defined as a
store, business office, factory, sales lot, sales stand, or similar facility
operated and maintained on a regular and permanent basis in a fixed location
within the town for the purpose of conducting the business in question,
including seasonal businesses such as fruit and vegetable stands or nurseries
which are open at least 90 days per year and otherwise meet the above
qualifications.
   (B)   The term does not include mobile stands, vehicles, carts, and the
like, even though such may be frequently or customarily located and operated in
the same place, nor temporary sales rooms, lots, tents, and the like.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 112.04 FARMER’S MARKETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a FARMER’S MARKET is defined as a
common temporary facility where two or more farmers or growers gather on a
regular basis to sell farm products, which they produce, directly to the
consumer.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a PRODUCE/VEGETABLE STAND is defined
as a temporary facility that offers only whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables.
   (C)   (1)   Any fixed and established place of business, as defined in §
112.03, and any farmer’s market or produce/vegetable stand as defined in
divisions (A) and (B) above, are exempt from compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   However, the operator of any farmer’s market or produce/vegetable
stand must register with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office prior to establishing
his, her, or their farmer’s market or produce/vegetable stand.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-15-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative provisions, see 410 I.A.C. 7-24-79
   Health provisions, see I.C. 16-42-11-1.1
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined for
each such violation according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from
time to time by the Town Council and made available for public inspection in
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute
a separate violation.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-15-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Public Safety
   
130.01   Alcohol in public
Synthetic Cannabnoids
   
130.15   Definition
   
130.16   Sale prohibited
   
130.17   Enforcement
   
130.18   Defenses
Minors and Curfew
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Hours
   
130.32   Exceptions
Firearms, Weapons, and Explosives
   
130.45   Firearms and other dangerous weapons
   
130.46   Other explosives
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 130.01 ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful to have an open container of or to drink any alcoholic
beverage upon the public thoroughfares of the town.
(Prior Code, § 38-19) (Ord. 110, passed 8-20-1973) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Public intoxication prohibited, see I.C. 7.1-5-1-3, 7.1-5-1-6
SYNTHETIC CANNABNOIDS
§ 130.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any of the following:
      (1) All parts of the plant presently classified botanically as Salvia
divinorum, whether growing or not, any extract from any part of such plant, and
every compound, manufacture, salts derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or its extracts;
      (2)   HU-210, a substance also known as (6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-
dimethyl-3- (2methyloctan-2-yl)-6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol;
      (3)   JWH-018, a substance also known as Napthalen-1-yl-(1-petylindol-3-
yl)
      (4)   JWH-073, a substance also known as Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-
yl)methanone;
      (5)   TFMPP, a substance also known as 1-[3-
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]piperazine;
      (6)   Cannabicyclohexanol, a substance also known as 2-[(1R,3S)-3-
hydroxycyclohexyl]-5 - (2-methylnonan-2-yl)phenol;
      (7)   CP-47,497, a substance also known as 2-[(1R,3S)-3-
hydroxycyclohexyl] -5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol;
      (8)   JWH-250-, a substance also known as 2-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-(1 -
pentylindol-3-yl)ethanone;
      (9)   Structural analogs of any of these substances; and/or
      (10)   Any herbal-based substance sold under the name of K2, Spice,
Acapulco Spices, Serenity Now, Spice Gold, Shokotsu, Afghan Incense, Baked,
Black Magic, Buzz, Cherry Charm, Fire Bird, Fire “N” Ice, Pulse, Solitude,
Voodoo, or any other herbal-based substance containing the foregoing described
substances.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 130.16 SALE PROHIBITED.
   A person may not sell, barter, give, publicly display for sale, or attempt
to sell, give or barter, or to possess any synthetic cannabinoid.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-7-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town’s Police Department is responsible for the interpretation and
civil enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Enforcement personnel from the town’s Police Department may seize and
destroy synthetic cannabinoids that are in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 130.18 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense under this subchapter that a person otherwise in
violation is acting at the direction of an authorized agent of the town to
enforce or ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   It is a defense under this subchapter that a person otherwise in
violation is acting, with respect to the violation, under the direction or
prescription of a person who holds an unlimited license to practice medicine
under I.C. 25-22.5 or a license to practice dentistry under I.C. 25-14.
   (C)   It is a defense under this subchapter that a person otherwise in
violation is acting, with respect to the violation, in connection with a bona
fide research or scientific endeavor funded by public entities or nonprofit
organizations.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-7-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
MINORS AND CURFEW
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As the natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include
but not be limited to any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café,
theater, drugstore, pool room, shopping center, and any other place devoted to
amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors)
totaling four or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using
the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going
home.
   STREET. A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a
sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel. The term STREET includes the legal
right-of-way, including but not limited to the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right-of-way of a street.
   TIME OF NIGHT. The time referred to herein is based upon the prevailing
standard of time, whether Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving
Time, generally observed at that hour by the public.
   YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that 17 or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to the
phrase “under 18 years of age.”
(Prior Code, § 38-39)
§ 130.31 HOURS.
   It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain at a public place within the
town, except as expressly permitted in this chapter, during the following
hours: from 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. the following day, except for Friday
evening and Saturday evening, said curfew shall not begin until 11:00 p.m. and
extend through 6:00 a.m. the following morning.
(Prior Code, § 38-39) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a town street during the
nocturnal hours for which this section is intended to provide the maximum
limits of regulation shall not, however, be considered in violation of this
subchapter:
   (A)   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such a minor to
take said parent’s place in accompanying said minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly;
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in said
minor’s possession a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor evidencing his, her, or their home address and
telephone number, and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to
specified streets at a designated time for a described purpose including points
of origin and destination;
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route, from (and within 30 minutes of
the termination of) a school activity, or an activity of a religious or
voluntary association;
   (G)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the Town Council, in other
similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled but adapted to
necessary nighttime activities of more minors than can readily be dealt with on
an individual special permit basis;
   (H)   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his, her, or their home and his, her,
or their place of employment and his, her, or their hours of employment or
carries a valid proof of employment which may include the latest payroll
receipt not over 30 days old; and/or
   (I)   Whenever the minor is engaged in interstate or intrastate vehicular
travel.
(Prior Code, § 38-39)
FIREARMS, WEAPONS, AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 130.45 FIREARMS AND OTHER DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any bow and arrow,
crossbow, slingshot, firearm, pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, air rifle, air
pistol or revolver, or any gun operated by CO2 or any other gaseous propellants
within the town limits.
   (B)   Police officers in the line of duty, shooting at authorized gun
ranges, and ranged shooting sporting events shall be exempt form the provisions
of this section
(Prior Code, § 39-59) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.46 OTHER EXPLOSIVES.
   The following activities are also unlawful:
   (A)   Making or shooting homemade rockets or rocket propellants;
   (B)   The storage of flammable liquids, including but not limited to
benzene, gasoline, and kerosene in a home or residence;
   (C)   The storage of more than five gallons of flammable liquids, including
but not limited to benzene, gasoline, and kerosene in a private garage; and/or
   (D)   The storage of flammable liquids, including but not limited to
benzene, gasoline, and kerosene in anything other than a sealed, approved
container.
(Prior Code, § 38-60) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person in violation of §§
130.15 through
130.18 shall be fined in an amount which shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time. Each day a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-7-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
153.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Adoption of rules
   
150.03   Permits; fees and charges
Administration
   
150.15   Appointment of Building Commissioner
   
150.16   Records
   
150.17   General authority to make inspections and investigations
Unsafe Building Code
   
150.30   Definitions and interpretations of terms
   
150.31   Statutory authority
   
150.32   Compliance and applicability
   
150.33   Building Commissioner responsibilities
Unsafe Building Ordinance
   
150.45   Adoption
   
150.46   Contents of law
   
150.47   Required actions
   
150.48   Administration and enforcement
   
150.49   Enforcement discretion
   
150.50   Definitions
   
150.51   Construction standards
   
150.52   Hearing Authority duties
   
150.53   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.54   Demolition requirements
   
150.55   Inspection
   
150.56   Reclaiming costs
   
150.57   Building Department duties
   
150.58   Construction and effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare,
and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings
and structures.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following articles of the I.A.C. Title 675, are
hereby incorporated by reference in this section:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes;
      (2)   Article 14, One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
      (3)   Article 16, Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   The National Fire Protection Association 99, Heath Care
Facilities Code.
      (5)   Article 18, Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, Energy Conservation Codes, including the Indiana Energy
Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20, Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 21, Safety Codes for Elevators, Escalators, Manlifts and
Hoists;
      (9)   Article 22, Fire Prevention Codes; and
      (10)   Article 25, Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the adopted building rules, codes, and standards are on
file in the office of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
Statutory references:
   Adoption by reference, see I.C. 36-1-5-4
   State building standards, see I.C. 22-13-2-1 et seq.
§ 150.03 PERMITS; FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   All building, electrical, pool, and fence permit fees shall be
determined according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified, from time to
time, by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection, in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (2)   All permits are to be obtained and permit fees paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer prior to beginning construction and/or installation. Failure to do so
will result in a fine as outlined in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 10-124)
   (B)   The service charge for the filing of a lien for payment or
satisfaction of a debt owed the town shall be determined according to a
schedule of fees, as shall be modified, from time to time, by the Town Council,
and made available for public inspection, in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-125)
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 7-7-2005)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.15 APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   There is hereby created the office of Building Commissioner, who shall be
appointed by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-23)
§ 150.16 RECORDS.
   The Building Commissioner shall keep suitable records, which are to be kept
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and in which shall be recorded the
location and character of every building, structure, or other work for which an
inspection is issued, and a copy of every report of inspection of such
building, structure, or work so arranged that the full history of the various
inspections of each building, structure, or other work shall appear therein in
consecutive order, and the day upon which such inspection was made. All
original notes on records made by the Building Commissioner shall be signed and
properly filed for permanent record.
(Prior Code, § 10-24)
§ 150.17 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around, or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure.
(Prior Code, § 10-25)
UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.30 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. As set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is also
specifically incorporated in this subchapter by reference.
   (B)   UNSAFE BUILDING. Set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is supplemented to provide
minimum standards for building condition or maintenance in the town, by adding
the following definition: any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe
building, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants are
endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before the
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure person
or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location, without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such building;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar or new construction;
      (7)   Whenever any building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of the following is likely to partially or completely collapse:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause.
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting members, or 50% or
more damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   A harbor for vagrants or criminals.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided in the building regulations
of this town or of any law or ordinance of this state relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the following, required by law in the case of a newly
constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy in the same location:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics.
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the enforcement authority
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or determined to be in such a
condition that it is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the
enforcement authority to be a fire hazard;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or jurisprudence; and/or
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building, or structure is abandoned
for a period in excess of six months so as to constitute such building or
portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-54) (Ord. passed 7-6-1981)
§ 150.31 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-3, there is established the town’s
Unsafe Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 10-56) (Ord. passed 7-6-1981)
§ 150.32 COMPLIANCE AND APPLICABILITY.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 are adopted by reference as the town’s
Unsafe Building Code. Two copies of this material is on file in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office and available for public inspection. All proceedings within
the town for the inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be
governed by state law and the provisions of this subchapter. If the provisions
of this subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-
9-28, then the provisions of the state statute shall control.
(Prior Code, § 10-57) (Ord. passed 7-6-1981)
§ 150.33 BUILDING COMMISSIONER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The administration of the provisions of this subchapter shall be the
responsibility of the office of the Building Commissioner. The Building
Commissioner shall be the enforcement authority, and the Town Council shall be
the hearing authority, within the meaning of these terms as defined in I.C. 36-
7-9-2.
(Prior Code, § 10-58) (Ord. passed 7-6-1981)
UNSAFE BUILDING ORDINANCE
§ 150.45 ADOPTION.
   The Town Council establishes an Unsafe Building Ordinance, codified in this
subchapter, in accordance with the State Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.46 CONTENTS OF LAW.
   The town’s Unsafe Building Ordinance includes the State Unsafe Building Law,
which is hereby adopted. For purposes of this subchapter, the State Unsafe
Building Law shall refer to the body of law in Indiana known as the Unsafe
Building Law, located in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., as amended, replaced, and
interpreted from time to time. This subchapter governs all proceedings within
the town for the inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe buildings and
premises. If the provisions of this subchapter conflict with Indiana statutory
law, then the provisions of state law govern.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.47 REQUIRED ACTIONS.
   If the town’s Building Commissioner or any so-designated employee determines
after an inspection that any building or portion of a building within the town
is unsafe, as that term is defined in this subchapter or in the Indiana Unsafe
building Law, that building, or portion of the building, shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.48 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Building Department, by and through the Towns Building Inspector,
shall be the executive department that is authorized to administer this
subchapter and the State Unsafe Building Law. The Town Building Inspector shall
be the enforcement authority for purposes of the Town Unsafe Building Ordinance
and the State Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.49 ENFORCEMENT DISCRETION.
   If the town’s Building Code Ordinance, as amended and replaced from time to
time and codified in §§
150.30 through
150.33, or the town’s Unsafe Building Ordinance provides that any act shall be
required to receive the approval of, or shall be subject to the discretion of
the Town Building Department, or any other town officer or department, the
provisions shall be construed to give that officer only the discretion of
determining if the rules and standards established by this subchapter have been
met. No provision shall be construed to give any town officer discretionary
power to determine what the regulations or standards shall be, power to require
conditions not prescribed by this subchapter, or to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Town of North Judson Building Department as
established and confirmed by §§
150.30 through
150.33.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Town of North Judson Building Inspector (or
Commissioner) and his or her duly authorized representatives. “Duly authorized
representatives” shall include all employees holding positions identified
within the budget classifications for the Planning Division and the Code
Enforcement Division of the annual budget as approved and as amended by the
Town Council from time to time.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Shall be the same as the definition of
SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2, as amended or
replaced from time to time, which is hereby incorporated by reference and made
a part of this subchapter.
   TOWN. The Town of North Judson, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The town executive of the Town of North Judson, Indiana.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. As contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4, as amended or replaced from
time to time, a building or structure, or any part of a building or structure,
that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant or blighted and not maintained in a manner that would allow
human habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. The following are considered UNSAFE PREMISES:
      (1)   An unsafe building and the tract of real property on which the
unsafe building is located; and
      (2)   A tract of real property, not including land used for production
agriculture, that does not contain a building or structure, or contains a
building or structure that is not considered an unsafe building, if the tract
of real property is:
         (a)   A fire hazard;
         (b)   A hazard to public health;
         (c)   A public nuisance; or
         (d)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or an ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.51 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition of
buildings or other structures, and the removal of trash and debris from the
unsafe premises shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according
to the accepted standards and practices in the trade and shall be performed
with the standards and requirements of the town’s Building Code Ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.52 HEARING AUTHORITY DUTIES.
   (A)   The town hereby designates and names the Town Council, from time to
time, as the body to serve as the Hearing Authority for the purposes of
conducting hearings in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-7, as amended or repealed
from time to time. By passage of the ordinance contained in this subchapter,
the Town Council also hereby disbands any other hearing authority designation,
board, commission, or body promulgated or organized prior to this subchapter by
the Town Council.
   (B)   The Hearing Authority shall meet once a month, or as required, and
shall be comprised of five Hearing Officers.
   (C)   The Hearing Authority shall create reasonable rules of procedure for
holding a hearing as required by the Indiana Unsafe Building Law.
   (D)   The Hearing Authority may allow additional time for a person to
complete an action requested in the order. The Hearing Officer may require a
person making a request for additional time to post a performance bond.
   (E)   In allowing additional time to comply with an order, the Hearing
Authority may impose up the maximum amount performance bonds for the following
types of orders to comply:
      (1)   For demolition or repair of structural code violations for
agricultural or residential structures to include accessory structures and
buildings, the performance bond amount (maximum) shall be $50,000;
      (2)   For demolition or repair of non-structural code violations for
agricultural or residential structures to include accessory structures and
buildings, the performance bond amount (maximum) shall be $25,000;
      (3)   For demolition or repair of structural code violations for
commercial or manufacturing structures to include accessory structures and
buildings, the performance bond amount (maximum) shall be $250,000; and
      (4)   For demolition or repair of non-structural code violations for
commercial or manufacturing structures to include accessory structures and
buildings, the performance bond amount (maximum) shall be $125,000.
   (F)   The performance bond amounts shall be at the discretion of the Hearing
Authority based upon the estimated costs to comply as determined by the Hearing
Authority. Performance bonds shall be forfeited in the action required by the
order is not completed within the additional time granted to comply.
   (G)   (1)   Notice must be served in the manner set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-25,
as amended or replaced from time to time.
      (2)   If service is not obtained and the Hearing Authority finds that
reasonable effort was made to obtain service, service may be made by
publication. If service is made by publication, publication must be made two
times, at least one week apart.
   (H)   Whenever the Hearing Authority affirms or modifies an order of the
Town Building Commissioner, the Hearing Authority shall issue a continuous
enforcement order (as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2) authorizing the Town Building
Commissioner to conduct ongoing compliance or abatement activities for the same
or similar violations, including the assessment of fees and costs, without the
need for additional notice or hearing.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.53 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The town’s Unsafe Building Fund is established and perpetuated in the
town operating budget in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14, as
amended or replaced from time to time.
   (B)   All amounts collected on a forfeited bond will be deposited in the
Unsafe Building Fund.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.54 DEMOLITION REQUIREMENTS.
   A building or structure shall be demolished in the town under this
subchapter only in compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   All water, sewer, and other utility lines shall be plugged, capped,
and properly guarded. Septic tank and drywells shall be removed or collapsed
and backfilled with clean fill material;
   (B)   All materials and debris resulting from the demolition shall be
removed from the premises, except for those items which will provide clean fill
for the evacuation;
   (C)   After demolition, the property shall be filled to grade with clean
soil and compacted;
   (D)   The sidewalk shall be repaired or replaced in accordance with the
specifications of the municipality, if any, in which the property is located;
   (E)   The person performing the demolition shall provide proof of liability
insurance with a coverage and in an amount deemed adequate by the Building
Commissioner;
   (F)   The demolition shall be entirely completed and the property shall be
restored to a condition that is in compliance with this section within 30 days
from the date of the awarding of the contract for demolition;
   (G)   No fires of any size shall be permitted, except those set and
supervised by Volunteer Fire Department personnel;
   (H)   The demolition shall comply with all requirements set forth in
applicable codes and permits, including the town’s Building Code Ordinance, §§
150.30 through
150.33; and
   (I)   The person or firm performing the demolition shall file a performance
bond with the Town Building Department in an amount deemed adequate by the Town
Building Commissioner. That bond shall be provided to ensure that the
demolition, removal, and other acts performed under this subchapter comply with
this subchapter and are completed within the period of time set forth in the
permit. The Town Building Department may waive this requirement to file a bond
if the Town Building Department believes that filing a performance bond is
unnecessary.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.55 INSPECTION.
   In addition to any other rights or remedies, the Town Building Department
may conduct inspections of buildings or structures after a complaint concerning
that building or structure has been filed with the Town Building Department.
The complaint shall state the name and address of the person filing it. All
complaints shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.56 RECLAIMING COSTS.
   The town’s Building Department shall attempt to reclaim all actual costs of
work performed by the town to bring an unsafe building and premises into
compliance with an order to comply, or the actual cost of taking emergency
action, as well as the average processing expense of $1,500. All monies
received shall be made payable to and shall be deposited in the town’s Unsafe
Building Fund.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.57 BUILDING DEPARTMENT DUTIES.
   The Town Building Department shall have all rights, powers, privileges, and
authorities as are provided under the Indiana Unsafe Building Law as the
department authorized to administer and enforce the Indiana Unsafe Building
Law. It is hereby acknowledged, understood, and declared by the Town Council
that the Town Building Inspector is required to exercise and is vested with the
authority to exercise his or her discretion and judgment in order to protect
and preserve the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of
the town in administering and enforcing this subchapter. The authority of the
Town Building Commissioner to issue, deny, suspend, or revoke, or fail or
refuse to issue, deny, suspend, or revoke any permit, license, approval, order,
or similar authorization under this subchapter is hereby declared to be
discretionary.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.58 CONSTRUCTION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this
subchapter are hereby repealed upon the effectiveness of this subchapter. This
subchapter shall become effective from and after the date on which this
subchapter has been duly adopted by the Town Council and published in
accordance with the requirements of applicable Indiana law.
   (B)   In the event that any provision of this subchapter is determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be pre-empted by a state or federal law or
regulation, the applicable provision shall automatically be deemed amended by
eliminating the pre-empted provision and incorporating in its place the
applicable provision of the pre-empting state or federal law or regulation.
   (C)   Each provision of this subchapter shall be construed as separate. If
any term or provision of this subchapter is determined to be invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining terms and
provisions of this subchapter shall continue in full force and effect.
   (D)   Compliance with the requirements of this subchapter does not obviate
or eliminate the necessity of complying with any other applicable federal,
state, or local law and regulation affecting agricultural, residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings, structures, or premises in the town.
   (E)   The expressed repeal by this subchapter and any implied repeal by this
subchapter of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not
affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings
begun prior to the effective date of this subchapter. These rights,
liabilities, and other proceedings are continued and penalties shall be imposed
and enforced under the repealed ordinance as if this subchapter had not been
adopted.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §§
150.30 through
150.33 shall be subject to a civil fine in accordance with §
10.99. Each day that a given violation continues constitutes a separate
offense; and shall be required to reimburse the town, if the town is required
to repair or secure property or cause to have the repairs made or the property
to be secured. The amount the property owner shall be required to reimburse the
town is the actual cost of materials plus the cost of labor according to a
schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council,
and made available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, or
actual cost for hired labor, whichever is greater. Such costs shall be assessed
as a lien against the property. This applies to any person who:
      (1)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order
made under §§
150.30 through
150.33;
      (2)   Fails to complete, delays, or knowingly interferes with the
carrying out of an order under §§
150.30 through
150.33;
      (3)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with persons engaged in
or property used in performing any work or duty under §§
150.30 through
150.33; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27 (incorporated herein by
reference).
   (C)   (1)   If a person to whom the Town Building Commissioner issued an
order requiring the repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building fails or
refuses to comply with such order within 60 days or the time specified in the
order, the Town Building Commissioner may impose a civil penalty of not more
than $2,500. The Town Building Commissioner may impose an additional civil
penalty of not more than $1,000 every 90 days if the person to whom the order
was issued continues to fail or refuse to comply with the order.
      (2)   If the Hearing Authority finds that there has been a willful
failure to comply with an order issued by the Town Building Commissioner, the
Hearing Authority may impose a civil penalty of not more than $5,000. The
Hearing Authority may impose additional civil penalties of not more than $5,000
each, if the Hearing Authority finds that:
         (a) Significant work on the premises in compliance with the order has
not been accomplished; and
         (b) The premises have a negative impact on property values or quality
of life in the surrounding area or that the premises require the provision of
services by local government in excess of the services required by ordinary
properties.
      (3)   If a civil penalty is unpaid for more than 15 days after payment is
due, the civil penalty may be collected from any person against whom the
Hearing Authority or Town Building Commissioner assessed the civil penalty or
fine. A civil penalty may be certified to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and
collected in accordance with the Indiana Unsafe Building Law. All civil
penalties collected shall be made payable to and shall be deposited in the
town’s Unsafe Building Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-55) (Ord. passed 7-6-1981; Ord. 2022-05, passed 11-21-2022)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.01   Certiorari procedure
   
151.02   Enforcement
   
151.03   Variance and modification
Plats and Survey Maps
   
151.15   Approval by Plan Commission for plat or replat of subdivision
   
151.16   Plat approval
   
151.17   Plat certificates
   
151.18   Application
   
151.19   Preliminary plat
   
151.20   Approval of preliminary plat
   
151.21   Final plat
Required Improvements
   
151.35   Streets
   
151.36   Sewers
   
151.37   Water
   
151.38   Storm drainage
   
151.39   Street signs
Design Standards
   
151.50   Land not to be subdivided if unsuitable
   
151.51   Subdivisions shall conform to plan
   
151.52   Streets and alley location and arrangement
   
151.53   Minimum street and alley widths
   
151.54   Minimum radii of curvature on centerlines
   
151.55   Tangents
   
151.56   Intersections
   
151.57   Blocks
   
151.58   Lots
   
151.59   Public spaces
   
151.60   Monuments and markers
 
   
151.99   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.01 CERTIORARI PROCEDURE.
   In any decision by the Plan Commission under this chapter, any person
aggrieved may petition the Circuit or Superior Court of the county by writ of
certiorari as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 68-19)
§ 151.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Planning Commission may institute a suit for injunction to restrain
individuals or governmental units from violating the provisions of this
chapter; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed as
to limit the rights of the state to otherwise enforce this chapter by invoking
any legal, equitable, or special remedy provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 68-20)
§ 151.03 VARIANCE AND MODIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of §§
151.35 and
151.54 through
151.56 of this chapter with regard to the exact location of the surfaced area
of the street would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and
where, in the opinion of the Commission because of topographical or other
conditions peculiar to the site a departure may be made without destroying the
intent of such provision, the Commission may authorize a variance.
      (2)   Any variance thus authorized is required to be entered in writing
in the minutes of the Commission and the reasoning on which the departure was
justified set forth.
   (B)   The foregoing requirements and principles of land subdivision may be
modified by the Commission in the case of a subdivision large enough to be
developed as a community center or neighborhood unit in accordance with a plan
prepared by the subdivider and adopted as a part of the master plan.
(Prior Code, § 68-41)
PLATS AND SURVEY MAPS
§ 151.15 APPROVAL BY PLAN COMMISSION FOR PLAT OR REPLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of the town’s Plan Commission shall be filed with the Auditor or
recorded by the Recorder until it shall have been approved by the town’s Plan
Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in writing on the plat by
the President and Secretary of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 68-61)
§ 151.16 PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   In submitting the final plat to the Commission, it shall be
accompanied by a notice from the Town Council stating that there has been filed
with and approved by that Council, one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate that all improvements and installations to the
subdivision required for its approval have been made or installed in accordance
with specifications; or
      (2)   A bond. Any funds received from these bonds shall be used by the
Town Council only for the completion of the improvements and installations for
which they were provided; and, said Town Council is authorized to complete such
improvements and installations on the failure of applicant to do so. The bond
shall:
         (a)   Run to the Town Council;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the Plan Commission to be
sufficient in amount to complete the improvements and installations in
compliance with this subchapter;
         (c)   Be with security satisfactory to the Commission; and
         (d)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
   (B)   After hearing and within a reasonable time after application for
approval of the plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the
Commission approves, it shall affix the Commission’s seal upon the plat
together with the certifying signature of its President and Secretary. If it
disapproves, it shall set forth its reason in its own records and provide the
applicant with a copy.
(Prior Code, § 68-62)
§ 151.17 PLAT CERTIFICATES.
   The following forms shall be used in final plats:
   (A)   Plan Commission approval. Under authority provided by the General
Assembly of the State of Indiana and Ordinance adopted by the Town Council,
North Judson, Indiana, this plat was given approval as follows:
Approved by Town Plan Commission at a meeting held on the day of
________________________, 20________.
_______________________________
President
________________________________
Secretary
   (B)   Engineer or surveyor certificate. Each final plat submitted to the
Commission for approval shall carry a certificate signed by a Registered
Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor in substantially the following form:
      “I, __________________ hereby certify that I am a Professional Engineer
(or a Land Surveyor), licensed in compliance with the laws of the State of
Indiana; that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on
__________; that all the monuments shown thereon actually exist; and that their
location, size, type, and material are accurately shown.
   (SEAL) ______________________
   (C)   Deed of dedication. Each final plat submitted to the Commission for
approval shall carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following form:
   “We, the undersigned _______________________, owners of the real estate
shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted,
and subdivided, and do hereby lay off, plat, and subdivide, said real estate in
accordance with the within plat.
   This subdivision shall be known and designated as, ____________ an addition
to ______________. All streets and alleys shown and not heretofore dedicated,
are hereby dedicated to the public.
   Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown
on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street, there
shall be erected or maintained no building or structure.
   There are strips of ground ________ feet in width as shown on this plat and
marked “Easement” reserved for the use of public utilities for the installation
of water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines, and wires, subject at all times
to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No permanent or
other structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips of land, but
owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject to the
rights of the public utilities.
   (Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s initiative or the recommendation
of the Commission; important provisions are those specifying the use to be made
of the property and, in the case of residential use, the minimum habitable
floor area.)
   The foregoing covenants, (or restrictions), are to run with the land and
shall be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until
January 1, 20____, (a 15 to 25 year period is suggested), at which time said
covenants, (or restrictions), shall be automatically extended for successive
periods of ten years unless by vote of a majority of the then owners of the
building sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, it is agreed to
change such covenants, or restrictions, in whole or in part. Invalidation of
any one of the foregoing covenants, or restriction, by judgment or court order
shall in no way affect any of the other covenants or restrictions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
   The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right
to cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs and assigns.”
   Witness our Hands and Seals this ____________ day of ____________, 20___.
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
STATE OF INDIANA
SS:
COUNTY OF STARKE
   Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared _______________, __________________, ________________, and
each separately and severally acknowledged the execution for the foregoing
instrument as his, her, or their voluntary act and deed, for the purposes
therein expressed.
   Witness my Hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of ________, 20______.
_________________________
Notary Public
(Prior Code, § 68-63)
§ 151.18 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed to be made, the
subdivider or his, her, or their agent shall submit a written application for a
certificate of approval and two copies of a preliminary plat of said
subdivision with the Commission, and file said application with the Plan
Commission at least four days before meeting at which the Commission is
expected to consider said application and plat.
   (B)   The application shall specify the intent of the subdivider with
respect to the land use, drainage, sewage disposal, water supply, and street
improvements proposed for the subdivision; shall include satisfactory evidence
that the proposed water supply and sewage disposal systems meet the minimum
requirements for such systems established by the state’s Department of
Environmental Management; of any deed restrictions that are to be placed upon
the property to be subdivided and the expected date of its development.
   (C)   At the time of filing an application for approval of a plat, the
application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order payable to
the Clerk-Treasurer in an amount according to a schedule of fees, as shall be
modified from time to time by the Town Council and made available for public
inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Upon the acceptance of the
application by the Commission, the Secretary shall surrender the check or money
order to the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 68-83)
§ 151.19 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with §§
151.50 through
151.60 and shall be presented as follows.
   (A)   The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch on a sheet
not less than 17 inches by 21 inches or more than 30 inches by 36 inches in
size except that when the drawing at that scale requires more than a sheet 30
inches by 36 inches in size, the plat may be drawn at a scale of 200 feet to
one inch.
   (B)   The plat shall include a vicinity key map at an appropriate scale
showing the layout of the proposed subdivision and all existing subdivision,
street, and tract lines of acreage parcels of land immediately adjoining the
proposed subdivision and between it and the nearest existing thoroughfares. It
shall also show how streets and alleys in the proposed subdivision may connect
with existing and proposed streets and alleys in the neighboring subdivisions
or undeveloped property to produce the most advantageous development of the
entire neighboring area.
   (C)   The plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Description:
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Location, with a complete legal description;
         (c)   Name and address of the subdivider;
         (d)   Name, address, and seal of the registered professional engineer
or licensed land surveyor preparing the plat; and
         (e)   Scale of the plat, including graphic scale, north point, and
date.
      (2)   Existing conditions:
         (a)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy
line;
         (b)   Location, width, and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings or structures, and section and
municipal corporation lines, within or adjacent to the tract;
         (c)   In case of replat, all descriptive lines of the original plat
being vacated shall be shown by dotted lines in their proper position in
relation to the new arrangement of the plat, with the new plat being clearly
shown in solid lines so as to avoid ambiguity or confusion;
         (d)   Existing drainage ditches, sewers, water mains, culverts, or
other underground facilities within the tract, indicating pipe sizes, grades,
and exact location, as obtained from public records;
         (e)   Boundary lines of adjacent unsubdivided and subdivided land,
showing owners names;
         (f)   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts;
         (g)   Contours based on a fixed and easily recognized datum, at not
more than five feet nor less than one foot vertical intervals as required by
the Commission; and
         (h)   Location and results of soil percolation tests if individual
sewage disposal systems are proposed.
      (3)   Proposed conditions:
         (a)   Layout of streets, their names and widths and also widths of
alleys, crosswalks, and easements. The names of the streets shall conform as
far as practicable to the names of corresponding streets existing in the
vicinity of the subdivision;
         (b)   Layout, dimensions, and numbers of lots;
         (c)   Parcels of land to be dedicated or reserved for public use or
set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision; and
         (d)   Building setback lines, showing dimensions.
(Prior Code, § 68-84)
§ 151.20 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The Commission shall consider the application and preliminary plat at
the first regular meeting following its proper submittal. If the Commission is
satisfied that all conditions have been satisfactorily met by the subdivider,
it shall tentatively approve the application and set a date for a public
hearing on the proposed plat, giving written notification to the subdivider,
and publish a notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation
printed and published in the state, or the county, or 25 miles thereof, at
least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing. The cost of publishing
the notice of the hearing shall be paid to the publisher by the subdivider at
the time of inserting the notice.
   (B)   After the public hearing, the Commission may give its approval of the
preliminary plat which shall be governed by the following qualifications:
      (1)   The approval of a preliminary plat by the Commission is strictly
tentative, involving merely the general acceptability of the layout as
submitted;
      (2)   The Commission may introduce such changes or revisions as are
deemed necessary to the interests and needs of the community;
      (3)   Tentative approval shall be effective for a maximum period of six
months, unless, upon application of the subdivider, the Commission grants an
extension. If the final plat has not been recorded within this time limit, the
preliminary plat must again be submitted to the Commission for approval; and
      (4)   Any person feeling himself, herself, or themself aggrieved at any
action of the Commission upon any proposed plat or replat, may apply in writing
to the Commission, prior to its next regular meeting, for modification of the
action complained of, and such application shall be considered by the
Commission, at such time and in such manner as it may determine, but within 40
days following the regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 68-85)
§ 151.21 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   (1)   After approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission, and
the fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, one tracing of the
final plat of the subdivision, drawn with India ink on the best grade of
tracing cloth, and one reproduction of the tracing on tracing cloth shall be
submitted to the Commission. Upon the final approval of the plat, the
reproduction shall become the property of the Commission.
      (2)   The final plat may be submitted for approval immediately after the
hearing, and upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission.
      (3)   In case the final plat is not ready, the date for the hearing on
such final plat shall be set within 15 days from the date requested by the
subdivider.
   (B)   The final plat, if desired by the subdivider, may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat, which he, she, or they proposes to
record and develop at the time, provided, however, that portion shall conform
to all requirements of these regulations. The final plat shall be prepared at
the same scale as the preliminary plat and shall show:
      (1)   Name of subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, township, and range, or by other legal
description;
      (3)   The name and certification of the registered professional engineer
or licensed land surveyor;
      (4)   Scale shown graphically, date, and north point;
      (5)   Boundary of plat, based upon an accurate traverse with angular and
linear dimensions;
      (6)   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and adjoining
the plat, and the exact location and widths of all alleys and crosswalks;
      (7)   True courses and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monuments which shall accurately describe the location of the plat;
      (8)   Town, city, township, county, or section line accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and courses;
      (9)   Radii, internal angles, central angles, points or curvature and
tangency, lengths of tangents, and lengths of all arcs;
      (10)   All easements for right-of-way provided for public services or
utilities;
      (11)   All lot and block numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in
feet and hundredths. Blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the
same name may be numbered consecutively through the several additions;
      (12)   Lines of all streets with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths, showing angles to street, alley, and lot lines;
      (13)   Accurate location of all monuments;
      (14)   Accurate outlines and legal description of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon and
in the dedication; and of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common
uses of all property owners;
      (15)   Building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions;
      (16)   A description of the property platted which shall be the same as
that recorded in the preceding transfer of the property or that portion of said
transfer covered by plat;
      (17)   Restrictive covenants of all types which run with the land;
      (18)   Property numbers based on the official property numbering system
of the state; and
      (19)   Certificate for approval by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 68-86)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.35 STREETS.
   (A)   Streets and alleys shall be completed to grades as shown on plans,
profiles, and cross-sections prepared by the subdivider and approved by the
Commission. The streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved to the
dimensions required by the cross sections prescribed for the streets in the
Thoroughfare Plan, and the work shall be performed in the manner prescribed for
road and bridge construction and maintenance as prescribed by the State Highway
Commission. References in division (B) below refer to the State Highway
Commission of Indiana (SHC of I) specifications.
   (B)   As a minimum the streets shall be surfaced to a width of 12 feet on
each side of the centerline of the streets with six inches of Compacted
Aggregate (Section C-9) covered with a Dust Palliative (Section D1103.6).
   (C)   Upon the completion of the street and alley improvements, plans, and
profiles, as built, shall be filed with the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 68-106)
§ 151.36 SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete public
sewer system which shall connect with a sanitary sewer outlet or, for the
disposal of sanitary sewage by means of septic tanks with absorption systems or
seepage pits, all constructed according to the minimum requirements of the
state Department of Environmental Management.
   (B)   In this subchapter, and §
151.37, the phrase THE SUBDIVIDER SHALL PROVIDE shall be interpreted to mean
that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to, or that the
subdivider shall require, as a condition of the sale of each lot, or parcel in
the subdivision, that the facilities referred to in this subchapter shall be
installed by the developer of the lot in accordance with these regulations.
Upon the completion of the installation of a public sewer system, the plans for
such system as built shall be filed with the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 68-107)
§ 151.37 WATER.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water main
supply system which shall be connected with the town’s water supply system, or
a private water supply for each lot to be installed in accordance with the
minimum requirements of the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
(Prior Code, § 68-108)
§ 151.38 STORM DRAINAGE.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an adequate stormwater
sewer system whenever the evidence available to the Commission indicates the
natural surface drainage is inadequate. When the surface drainage is adequate,
easement for such surface drainage shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 68-109)
§ 151.39 STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with standard street signs at
the intersection of all streets.
(Prior Code, § 68-110)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.50 LAND NOT TO BE SUBDIVIDED IF UNSUITABLE.
   No land shall be subdivided for residential use if such land is considered
by the Commission to be unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding or
improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock formation topography, or any
other feature harmful to the health and safety of possible residents and the
community as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 68-130)
§ 151.51 SUBDIVISIONS SHALL CONFORM TO PLAN.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the thoroughfare plan.
Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a major street,
boulevard, or parkway so designated on the thoroughfare plan, such part of such
proposed public way shall be platted by the subdivider in the locations and of
the width indicated on the thoroughfare plan.
   (B)   Due consideration shall also be given by the subdivider and owners of
adjoining property for the provision of school sites, park sites, right-of-way
for public utility lines, sites for business centers, industrial locations, and
other features as indicated on the master plan.
(Prior Code, § 68-131)
§ 151.52 STREETS AND ALLEY LOCATION AND ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   The street and alley layout shall conform to the neighborhood plan of
the Commission for the development of the neighborhood in which the proposed
subdivision is located.
   (B)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (C)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other portion of the street
or alley to the prescribed width shall be platted.
(Prior Code, § 68-132)
§ 151.53 MINIMUM STREET AND ALLEY WIDTHS.
   (A)   Major streets and streets in business districts designated by Chapter
154 of this code of ordinances shall have widths not less than 80 feet.
   (B)   Other streets shall have widths not less than 50 feet.
   (C)   Alleys shall have widths not less than 20 feet or more than 30 feet.
   (D)   Dead-end streets shall have widths not less than 50 feet. All dead-end
streets shall not exceed 600 feet in length and shall terminate in a circular
right-of-way within a minimum diameter of 80 feet, unless the Commission
approves an equally safe and convenient form of space instead of the required
turning circle.
(Prior Code, § 68-133) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.54 MINIMUM RADII OF CURVATURE ON CENTERLINES.
   Where a deflection angle of more than ten degrees in the alignment of a
street occurs, a curve shall be introduced, providing for:
   (A)   Major streets: a minimum radius of 300 feet, but should be much
greater wherever possible; and
   (B)   Other streets: a minimum radius of 100 feet, but should be much
greater wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 68-134)
§ 151.55 TANGENTS.
   Between reversed curves, there shall be not less than a minimum tangent for:
   (A)   Major streets: 200 feet; and
   (B)   Other streets: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 68-135)
§ 151.56 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   At street intersections, property line corners shall be rounded by an
arc at least 20 feet in radius.
   (B)   All streets intersecting a major street shall do so at right angles or
as nearly so as is possible. Where the intersection angle is less than 60
degrees, the foregoing radii shall be increased not less than 40%.
(Prior Code, § 68-136)
§ 151.57 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The width of blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots as
described in §
151.58 (A) and (B).
   (B)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,320 feet in length.
   (C)   In blocks over 750 feet in length, the Commission may require, at or
near the middle of the block, a public walk connecting adjacent streets or
other public areas. Such walkway shall be at least ten feet in width and shall
be intended for the use of pedestrians only.
(Prior Code, § 68-137) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.58 LOTS.
   (A)   In any agriculture or residence district the minimum width and area
for lots shall conform to the requirements of Chapter 154 of this code of
ordinances but in no case shall the width be less than 50 feet at the setback
line, and the area contain less than 6,000 square feet if a public water supply
and sanitary sewers are provided; 8,000 square feet if a public water supply
but no sanitary sewers are provided; 10,000 square feet if neither public water
supply nor sanitary sewers are provided. Where property is located in a
business or manufacturing district, the minimum permissible lot size and
frontage shall be at the discretion of the Commission.
   (B)   The depth-to-width ratio of the usable area of a lot shall be not
greater than three and one-half to one.
   (C)   Building setback lines shall not be less than those required by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Whenever possible side lines of lots shall be at right angles or
radial to street lines.
   (E)   Every lot shall abut on a street.
   (F)   Through lots having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets will be permitted only at the discretion of the Commission.
   (G)   Except where alleys are provided for the purpose, each lot shall have
an easement for utilities along the rear lot line and along the side lot line
where necessary. No easement shall be less than six feet wide on each lot,
making an overall easement width of 12 feet.
   (H)   When the terrain so requires, easements for sanitary sewers along lot
lines other than the rear lot lines, shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 68-138) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.59 PUBLIC SPACES.
   Whenever a park, recreational area, school site, or other open space shown
on the master plan is located in whole or in part in the proposed subdivision,
the Commission may require the dedication of those spaces or their reservation
for a period of not less than three years.
(Prior Code, § 68-139)
§ 151.60 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments shall be of concrete with a diameter of not less than six
inches and 36 inches long, with a copper dowel three-eighths inch in diameter,
at least 272 inches in length imbedded so that the top of the dowel shall be
not more than one-quarter inch above the surface and at the center of the
monument.
   (B)   Monuments shall be set so that the top is level with the established
grade adjoining it and placed so that the marked point on the metal center
shall coincide exactly with the intersection of street property lines, the
intersection of all angles in the boundary line and at the beginning and ending
of all curves along streets on the inside street lines.
   (C)   Lot corners not marked by concrete monuments as required above, shall
be marked by galvanized or wrought iron pipe, or iron or steel bars at least
three feet in length and not less than five-eighths inch in diameter, with the
top of the pipe or bar to be set level with the established grade of the ground
adjoining it.
(Prior Code, § 68-140)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined according to a schedule of
fines as shall be modified from time to time by the Town Council and made
available for public inspection in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, as prescribed
by the provisions of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 68-20)
CHAPTER 152: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
152.01   Compliance with chapter provisions required
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Location
   
152.04   Permits required
   
152.05   Drawings, plans, and permits
   
152.06   Recirculation pools
   
152.07   Materials
   
152.08   Structural design
   
152.09   Walk areas
   
152.10   Fences
   
152.11   Steps or ladders
   
152.12   Outlets
   
152.13   Electrical requirements
   
152.14   Inspection
   
152.15   Permit fees
   
152.16   Permitted uses
§ 152.01 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install, or enlarge any
swimming pool in the town except in compliance with all the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE POOLS. Those restricted to occupants of the principal use of the
property and guests, for whom no admission or membership fees are charged. Only
PRIVATE POOLS are permitted in residential districts.
   SWIMMING POOL.
      (1)   An outdoor structure designed as a receptacle for water or an
artificial pool of water having a depth at any point of more than two feet,
intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human
beings, and including all appurtenant equipment, whether such structure is
built inground, aboveground, or combination thereof.
      (2)   Swimming pools of a smaller size shall be deemed to be WADING POOLS
and are not regulated under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-91)
§ 152.03 LOCATION.
   No portion of an outdoor swimming pool shall be located at a distance of
less than ten feet from any side or rear property line or building line, and no
less than 20 feet from any existing dwelling unit on abutting property, nor at
any other location where a “structure” is prohibited under the other terms of
the town’s Zoning Code. Pumps, filters, and pool water disinfection equipment
installations shall be similarly restricted to the requirements of this
section. No swimming pools shall be located on an easement and all swimming
pools shall be located beyond (towards the rear building line) the actual
location of the furthest projection of the rear of said residence.
(Prior Code, § 10-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement, or alteration of any swimming pool and appurtenances within the
town unless a zoning permit, electrical permit, and building permit have first
been obtained from the town in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 DRAWINGS, PLANS, AND PERMITS.
   (A)   All drawings and plans for the construction, installation,
enlargement, or alteration of any swimming pool and appurtenances shall first
be presented to the Zoning and Building Commissioner for examination and
approval as to proper location and construction.
   (B)   All such drawings and plans shall accurately portray the relevant lot
lines and setback distances and include information as to the pool, walk, and
fence construction, water supply system, drainage, and water disposal systems,
and all appurtenances pertaining to the swimming pool. Detail plans and
vertical elevations shall be provided in accordance with all applicable
building, plumbing, and electrical codes.
   (C)   Once such drawings and plans are approved, the construction and
location of the swimming pool and its appurtenances shall be constructed in
strict conformance to such plans.
(Prior Code, § 10-94)
§ 152.06 RECIRCULATION POOLS.
   All swimming pools shall be of the recirculation type in which circulation
of the water is maintained through the swimming pool by pumps. The water
drained from the swimming pool shall be filtered and disinfected before being
returned to the swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 10-95)
§ 152.07 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Swimming pool walls and floors shall be constructed of any impervious
material which will provide a tight tank with white or light colored finish and
easily cleaned surfaces.
   (B)   The floor or bottom surface of the swimming pool shall have a nonslip
finish as smooth as possible. The side and end walls of a swimming pool shall
present a smooth finish and shall be vertical to a depth of at least six feet
or shall have a slope or curvature meeting one of the following conditions.
      (1)   The swimming pool may be vertical for 30 inches from the water
level, below which the wall may be curved to the bottom with a radius at any
point equal to the difference between the depth at that point and 30 inches.
      (2)   To a depth of six feet, except as in division (A) above, the wall’s
slope shall not be less than one foot horizontal in six feet vertical.
(Prior Code, § 10-96)
§ 152.08 STRUCTURAL DESIGN.
   The slope of the bottom of any part of a swimming pool in which the water is
less than five feet in depth shall be not more than one foot in each ten feet.
The maximum slope where water is five feet or more in depth shall not exceed
one foot in two feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-97)
§ 152.09 WALK AREAS.
   Unobstructed walk areas of not less than 36 inches shall be provided to
extend entirely around any inground swimming pool. The walk area shall be
constructed of impervious material and the surfaces shall be such as to be
smooth and easily cleaned and of nonslip construction. The slope of the walks
shall have a pitch of at least one-fourth inch to the foot, designed to prevent
back drainage from entering the swimming pool. On all aboveground swimming
pools, no completely surrounding walk shall be required. Where such walk area
is provided, however, such area shall be at least 15 inches wide and bordered
by a fence or railing.
(Prior Code, § 10-98)
§ 152.10 FENCES.
   (A)   All outdoor swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by a fence.
   (B)   Such fence may either be used to enclose only the swimming pool itself
or may be a fence which provides a continuous barrier to the portion of the
yard where the swimming pool is located.
   (C)   The structural sides of an aboveground swimming pool may be used in
satisfying a portion of the fence height requirement.
   (D)   In all cases, a minimum height of four feet shall be met by vertical
fence extensions from the side or other means.
   (E)   Retractable stairs which are self-latching are acceptable substitutes
for closing gates.
   (F)   All fence openings or points of entry into the swimming pool area
enclosures shall be equipped with gates. The fence and gates shall be at least
four feet in height above the grade level. All gates shall be equipped with
self-closing and self-latching devices placed at the top of the gate.
   (G)   Fence posts shall be decay- or corrosion-resistant and shall be set in
concrete bases, or by manufacturer’s specifications.
(Prior Code, § 10-99)
§ 152.11 STEPS OR LADDERS.
   In every inground swimming pool, at least two or more means of egress in the
forms of steps or ladders shall be provided. In every aboveground swimming
pool, one ladder which can be removed or placed in such a position as not to
allow entry into said pool shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.12 OUTLETS.
   (A)   Swimming pools shall be equipped with facilities for completely
emptying the swimming pool, and discharge of the swimming pool water to the
storm sewer shall be at a rate not exceeding 200 gallons per minute. No direct
connection shall be made to the storm sewer. Swimming pool pumps are an
acceptable means for emptying a pool.
   (B)   Water drained from the swimming pool shall not be discharged into the
storm sewer system during periods of rains or storms. At no time shall the rate
of drain water discharge exceed a flow of 200 gallons per minute.
(Prior Code, § 10-101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.13 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electrical installations provided for, installed, and used in
conjunction with private residential swimming pools shall be in conformance
with the town’s Electrical Code and Zoning Code.
   (B)   No current-carrying electrical conductors shall cross private
residential swimming pools, either overhead or underground or within five feet
of such pools.
   (C)   All metal fences, enclosures, or railings near or adjacent to swimming
pools, which might become electrically alive as a result of contact with broken
overhead conductors or from any other cause, shall be effectively grounded.
   (D)   Underground wiring shall not be permitted under a swimming pool or
under the area extending five feet horizontally from the inside wall of the
pool.
(Prior Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.14 INSPECTION.
   The Building Commissioner periodically may inspect any swimming pools to
determine whether or not the provisions of the ordinances have been complied
with and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 10-103)
§ 152.15 PERMIT FEES.
   The fee for a permit for the erection or construction of a private swimming
pool shall be according to a schedule of fees, as shall be modified from time
to time by the Town Council, and made available for public inspection in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-104)
§ 152.16 PERMITTED USES.
   Private swimming pools shall be permitted in all open space and residential
districts and in other districts only by way of special exception from the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 10-105)
CHAPTER 153: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Interpretation
   
154.002   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.003   Definitions
Zoning Districts and Zone Maps
   
154.015   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.016   Zone Map
   
154.017   Determination and interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.018   Procedure relating to annexed or vacated areas
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.030   Establishment
   
154.031   Composition and appointment
   
154.032   Organization
   
154.033   Rules of procedure
   
154.034   Meetings and records
   
154.035   Appeals from Building Commissioner decisions
   
154.036   Powers and duties of the Board
   
154.037   Restrictions on Board action
   
154.038   Remedies
SF-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
154.050   Intent
   
154.051   Where permitted
   
154.052   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.053   Maximum height of buildings
   
154.054   Front yard requirements
   
154.055   Side yard requirements
   
154.056   Rear yard requirements
   
154.057   Minimum ground floor building area
   
154.058   Lot coverage
   
154.059   Accessory building, uses permitted
SF-2 Single-Family Residential District
   
154.070   Intent
   
154.071   Where permitted
   
154.072   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.073   Maximum height of buildings
   
154.074   Front yard requirements
   
154.075   Side yard requirements
   
154.076   Rear yard requirements
   
154.077   Minimum ground floor building area
   
154.078   Lot coverage
   
154.079   Accessory building, uses permitted
TF Two-Family Residential District
   
154.090   Intent
   
154.091   Where permitted
   
154.092   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.093   Maximum height of buildings
   
154.094   Front yard requirements
   
154.095   Side yard requirements
   
154.096   Rear yard requirements
   
154.097   Minimum ground floor building area
   
154.098   Lot coverage
   
154.099   Accessory building, uses permitted
MF Multifamily Residential District
   
154.110   Intent
   
154.111   Where permitted
   
154.112   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.113   Maximum height of buildings
   
154.114   Front yard requirements
   
154.115   Side yard requirements
   
154.116   Rear yard requirements
   
154.117   Minimum ground floor building area
   
154.118   Lot coverage
   
154.119   Accessory building, uses permitted
LB Local Business District
   
154.130   Intent
   
154.131   Where permitted
   
154.132   Permitted uses
   
154.133   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.134   Height of buildings
   
154.135   Front yard requirements
   
154.136   Side yard requirements
   
154.137   Rear yard requirements
   
154.138   Lot coverage requirements
GB General Business District
   
154.150   Intent
   
154.151   Where permitted
   
154.152   Permitted uses
   
154.153   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.154   Height of buildings
   
154.155   Front yard requirements
   
154.156   Side yard requirements
   
154.157   Rear yard requirements
   
154.158   Lot coverage requirements
I Industrial District
   
154.170   Intent
   
154.171   Where permitted
   
154.172   Permitted uses
   
154.173   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.174   Height of buildings
   
154.175   Front yard requirements
   
154.176   Side yard requirements
   
154.177   Rear yard requirements
   
154.178   Lot coverage requirements
PUD Planned Unit Development
   
154.190   Intent of district and applicable property size
   
154.191   Development plan requirements
   
154.192   Board of Zoning Appeals approval standards; special uses
   
154.193   Bulk regulations
   
154.194   Site plan review and approval by the Plan Commission
   
154.195   Approval of preliminary plan by Town Council
   
154.196   Approval of final plan by Town Council
General and Supplemental Provisions
   
154.210   Buildings, uses, altering prohibited for any purpose other than use
permitted and specified
   
154.211   Height of buildings
   
154.212   Yards, lot area, and size of building
   
154.213   Lot location
   
154.214   Vision clearance on corner lot
   
154.215   Accessory buildings
   
154.216   Vehicle parking space; loading and unloading berths
   
154.217   Paving of parking and loading areas
   
154.218   Placement of Type I manufactured homes
   
154.219   Regulation and permitting of pools, decks, and fences
   
154.220   Parking, storage, or use of major recreational equipment
   
154.221   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
154.222   Dumping of rubbish
   
154.223   Junk or inoperable cars, trucks, or vehicles
   
154.224   Bed and breakfast operations
   
154.225   Adult entertainment facilities
   
154.226   Signs and sign construction permit
   
154.227   “Home occupation” defined; approval procedures
Nonconforming Use Specifications
   
154.240   Continuation thereof and reconstructions
   
154.241   Extension throughout building
   
154.242   Change to another nonconforming use
   
154.243   Erection and re-erection of buildings
   
154.244   Right to construct if permit issued
   
154.245   Use to conform after discontinuance
   
154.246   Nonconforming use created by amendment
Administration
   
154.260   Enforcement by Building Commissioner
   
154.261   Zoning compliance prior to issuance of building permit
   
154.262   Certificate of occupancy
Special Uses
   
154.275   Permits for special uses
   
154.276   Where permitted; vehicle parking spaces required
   
154.277   Permits for parking lots in residential zones
Amendments
   
154.290   Amendments
Development (Site) Plan
   
154.305   When required and procedures for review
   
154.306   Preliminary and final plan review
   
154.307   Approval of development plans
Availability for Public Inspection
   
154.320   Duty of Clerk-Treasurer
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 70-1) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.002 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, or abrogate or annul
any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, nor to interfere
with, or abrogate or annul any ordinances, other than expressly repealed
hereby, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in
conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted
or provided, except that, where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon
the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of buildings, or requires
larger open spaces or greater lot area per family than are required by or
imposed by such easements, covenants, or agreements between parties, or by such
ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(Prior Code, § 70-2) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. A use which is incidental to the main use of the premises.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater,
adult mini-motion picture theater, massage parlor, or commercial establishment
which for a fee or incidentally to another service, presents material or
exhibition distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” as defined below for observation by patrons therein:
      (1)   “Specified anatomical areas” means less than completely opaquely
covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock;
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
         (d)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      (2)   “Specified sexual activities” means:
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; and
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy, and
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock, or
female breast.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare, which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and less than 30 feet in width.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground, but having less than one-half of its
clear height below, which, unless subdivided into rooms and used for tenant
purposes, shall not be included as a story for the purpose of height
measurements.
   BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATION. A use which is subordinate to the principal use
as a single-family dwelling and a use in which a sleeping room and breakfast
are provided in return for payment.
   BLOCK. Property having frontage of one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or other barrier.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the town.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or
property. When separated by party walls, without openings through such walls,
each portion of such a BUILDING shall be considered a separate structure.
   BUILDING ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, or a portion of a main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building.
   BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE, OF. The line of that face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT, OF. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip,
and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a substantial part of
the wall of an accessory building is a part of the wall of the principal
building or where an accessory building is attached to the main building in a
substantial manner by a roof such accessory building shall be counted as a part
of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   BUILDING, SETBACK LINE. The line nearest the front and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front of
buildings and structures and the front lot line.
   BUILDING WIDTH. The minimum width of a building used for residential
purposes shall be 30 feet measured perpendicular at the front foundation line
and running not less than 50% of the dimension of the longest perpendicular
side.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise, or services, the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreation and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
or more automobile house trailers, or two or more camping parties, including
cabins, tents, or other camping outfits.
   COMMERCIAL. See BUSINESS.
   DISTRICT. A section of the town, for which uniform regulations governing the
use, height, area, size, and intensity of use of buildings and land, and open
spaces about buildings, are herein established.
   FAMILY. A group of one or more persons occupying a building and living as a
single housekeeping unit. No unrelated group living as a single housekeeping
unit shall consist of more than six persons, as distinguished from a group
occupying a lodginghouse or hotel.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building with capacity for not more than three
motor vehicles for storage only, not more than one of which may be a commercial
vehicle of not more than three tons’ capacity. Provided, however, that a garage
designed to house one motor vehicle for each family housed in an apartment
shall be classed as a PRIVATE GARAGE.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those defined herein as a
private garage, used for the storage, or care of motor vehicles, or where such
vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for remuneration, hire,
or sale.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, exterior and
interior stairways.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, carried on by a member of the family
residing on the premises, in conjunction with which no commodity is sold or
stock in trade is kept on the premises; no person is employed other than a
member of said family; and, no sign, other than a nameplate, not exceeding one
square foot in area, is displayed.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boardinghouse or lodginghouse.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, at least four months
of age, are kept.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one principal building and its accessory buildings,
and the open space required by this chapter, and having its principal frontage
on a street, or an officially designated and approved place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection,
both requiring front yard setback abutting each street.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front line and the
rear line of the lot, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, GROUND LEVEL.
      (1)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
      (2)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets.
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
      (4)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from
a street is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the street or place; and in the case of a corner lot a line separating the
narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street, except in cases where
deed restrictions in effect specify another line as the FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular-shaped lot, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two streets at opposite ends of the
lot.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance between the side lot lines at the front line of
building measured at right angles to the depth of the lot.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any commercial establishment which for a fee provides for
the manipulation, or rubbing of body parts excepting manipulation of body parts
for remedial purposes performed by state-licensed practitioners with the
minimal qualifications of a physical therapist.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, in which lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation, and catering primarily to the public
traveling by motor vehicle.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building or premises which does not conform in this use
or otherwise with all of the regulations of the district in which such building
or premises is located.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking space for five
or more motor vehicles for compensation or otherwise.
   PLACE. An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley, permanently
reserved for use as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office of members of recognized professions, such as
an architect, artist, dentist, engineer, musician, physician, surgeon, or other
professional person.
   STORY. The portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it. If there is no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it shall be the STORY.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a sloping gable, hip, or
gambrel roof, the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which
are not more than three feet above the floor level of such HALF-STORY.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare 30 feet or more in width between property
lines, which affords principal means of vehicular access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location of the ground or which is attached to something
permanently located on the ground.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which overnight accommodations for not more than
five transient guests is offered for compensation.
   VEHICLE PARKING SPACE. The area required for parking one automobile, which
in this chapter is held to be an area nine feet wide and 20 feet long plus 70
square feet of maneuver area for each vehicle parking space.
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOT. A triangular space at the street corner of a
corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the height of
three and one-half and 12 feet above established grade, determined by a
diagonal line connecting two points measured equidistant from the corner along
each property line.
   YARD, FRONT. A horizontal space measured to 90 degrees with the property
line, between the front line of the principal building and the property line of
the street upon which the building faces, unoccupied other than by steps,
walks, terraces, and open, unroofed, unenclosed porches; or architectural
appurtenances projecting not more than 24 inches from the building.
   YARD, REAR. A horizontal space measured at 90 degrees to the rear lot line,
between the rear of the principal building and the real line of the lot,
unoccupied other than by vehicle parking space, architectural appurtenances, or
accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required rear
yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A horizontal space measured at 90 degrees to the side lot line
between the side of a building and the adjacent side line of the lot,
unoccupied other than by architectural appurtenances projecting not more than
24 inches, or open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes or fireproof outside
stairways, projecting not over four feet.
   ZONE. See DISTRICT.
(Prior Code, § 70-3) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONE MAPS
§ 154.015 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The town is hereby divided into seven districts in order to carry out
the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   The districts shall be known and designated throughout this chapter as
follows:
      (A)   SF-1 - Single-Family Residential District;
      (B)   SF-2 - Single-Family Residential District;
      (C)   TF - Two-Family Residential District;
      (D)   MF - Multifamily Residential District;
      (E)   LB - Local Business District;
      (F)   GB - General Business District;
      (G)   I - Industrial District; and
      (H)   PUD - Planned Unit Development.
(Prior Code, § 70-27) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.016 ZONE MAP.
   (A)   The Zone Map, dated July 20, 1998, which is the successor to the Zone
Map dated November 11, 1955, is hereby declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Zone Map shows the areas included in the districts listed in §
154.015. Notations, references, indications, and other matters shown on the
Zone Map are as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in
the text of this chapter.
   (B)   The official Zone Map is on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
and evidenced by the original signatures of the President and Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70-28) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.017 DETERMINATION AND INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In determining the boundaries of districts, and establishing the
regulations applicable to each district, due and careful consideration has been
given to existing conditions, the character of buildings erected in each
district, the more desirable use for which the land in each district may be
adapted, and the conservation of property values throughout the town.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of any district as
shown on the Zone Map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as following street, alley,
or lot lines, or approximately along such lines, such lines shall be construed
to be the district boundaries.
      (2)   In unsubdivided areas, or where a district boundary subdivided a
lot, the exact location of the boundary shall be determined by use of the scale
of the Zone Map.
      (3)   In the case of further uncertainty, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall interpret the intent of the Zone Map as to the location of the boundary
in question.
(Prior Code, § 70-29) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.018 PROCEDURE RELATING TO ANNEXED OR VACATED AREAS.
   (A)   Territory which may hereafter be annexed to the town shall remain as
zoned by the county unless changed by amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway, or other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the districts
adjoining each side of such street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway, or similar areas, shall be extended automatically to the center of
such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and thenceforth
be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Prior Code, § 70-30) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 154.030 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-901 et seq. and all acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 70-49) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.031 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Board shall be composed of five members. Initially, the Board shall
contain three members appointed by the Town Council President, one of whom must
be a member of the Plan Commission and the other two members must not be
members. One member shall be a citizen member appointed by the Town Council who
must not be a member of the Plan Commission. One member shall be appointed by
the Plan Commission from its membership who has not been appointed by other
means to the Board of Zoning Appeals. Terms of these members shall expire on
January 1 in the year in which their original appointments terminate.
Thereafter, as the terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of
four years and all members of the Board shall be appointed by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 70-50) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.032 ORGANIZATION.
   At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson from among its members, and it may appoint and fix the
compensation of a secretary and such employees as are necessary for the
discharge of its duties, all in conformity to and compliance with salaries and
compensations therefor fixed by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 70-51) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.033 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board shall adopt rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70-52) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.034 MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, prepare findings, and record the vote of each member voting upon each
question. All minutes and records shall be filed in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office within seven calendar days after the meeting and shall be available for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 70-53) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.035 APPEALS FROM BUILDING COMMISSIONER DECISIONS.
   Any decision of the Building Commissioner made in enforcement of this
chapter may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals by any person claiming
to be adversely affected by such decision.
(Prior Code, § 70-54) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.036 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall have the following powers and it shall be its duty to:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Building Commissioner in the enforcement
of this chapter;
      (2)   Hear and decide on permits for special uses, development plans, or
other uses upon which the Board is required to act under this chapter;
      (3)   Authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where
owing to special conditions, fully demonstrated on the basis of the facts
presented, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the chapter will result
in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done; and
      (4)   Authorize home occupation uses within residential districts.
   (B)   In exercising its powers, the Board may reserve or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement decisions or determination
appealed from as in its opinion ought to be done in the premises, and to that
end shall have all the powers of the Building Commissioner from whom the appeal
is taken.
(Prior Code, § 70-55) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.037 RESTRICTIONS ON BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by certiorari.
   (B)   No variance in the application of the provisions of this chapter shall
be made by the Board relating to buildings, land or premises now existing or to
be constructed, unless after a public hearing, the Board shall find that such
variance will not:
      (1)   Alter the land use characteristics of the district;
      (2)   Impair the adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
      (3)   Increase the hazard from fire, flood, and other dangers to said
property;
      (4)   Diminish the marketable value of adjacent lands and buildings;
      (5)   Increase the congestion in the public streets; or
      (6)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, convenience, and
comfort or general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 70-56) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.038 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The town’s Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Building
Commissioner, or any designated enforcement official, or any person jointly or
severally aggrieved, may institute a suit for injunction in the Circuit Court
of the county to restrain an individual or a governmental unit from violating
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The town’s Advisory Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals may
also institute a suit for mandatory injunction directing an individual, a
corporation or a governmental unit to remove a structure erected in violation
of any provisions of this chapter or the requirements thereof, or is hereby
declared to be a common nuisance and as such may be abated in such manner as
nuisances are now or may hereafter be abated under existing law.
(Prior Code, § 70-76) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
SF-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.050 INTENT.
   The SF-1 Single-Family Residential District is established for detached
buildings designed or occupied by one family exclusively.
(Prior Code, § 70-116) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.051 WHERE PERMITTED.
   The SF-1 Single-Family Residential Districts are as designated on the
official Zone Map or on a lot which was in single ownership or included in a
subdivision recorded in the office of the County Recorder, meeting the minimum
lot requirements of this district.
(Prior Code, § 70-117) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.052 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   A single-family home in the SF-1 Single-Family Residential District shall be
located on a lot with a minimum area in square feet and width in feet as
follows:
 
                                        Lot Area (square feet) Lot Width (feet)
Without public water supply and without 10,000                 50
public sewers
With public water supply but without    7,500                  50
public sewers
With public water supply and public     7,500                  50
sewers
 
(Prior Code, § 70-118) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.053 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   The principal building the maximum height in the SF-1 Single-Family
Residential District shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories. The height
of principal building may be increased above 35 feet but not higher than 45
feet or three stories if two side yards of 15 feet each are provided, upon
issuance of a special use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 70-119) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.054 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the SF-1 Single-Family Residential District, there shall be a front
yard between the building line and the street right-of-way line of 25 feet.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may waive this requirement where the
principal buildings on adjoining properties have a front yard setback less than
the minimum requirement.
   (C)   In such situations, the Building Commissioner may authorize a front
yard setback which is the average dimensions of the front yard setback
dimension of the two adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 70-120) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.055 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For an SF-1 Single-Family Residential District, there shall be two side
yards totaling 15 feet of which neither shall be less than five feet in
dimension.
(Prior Code, § 70-121) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.056 REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For an SF-1 Single-Family Residential District, there shall be a minimum
rear yard setback of no less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-122) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.057 MINIMUM GROUND FLOOR BUILDING AREA.
   The minimum ground floor building area in an SF-1 Single-Family Residential
District shall be not less than 1,250 square feet and each dwelling unit shall
be at least 30 feet in width, measured at the foundation line and a front
building dimension of no less than 30 feet measured at the foundation line.
(Prior Code, § 70-123) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.058 LOT COVERAGE.
   Lot coverage in an SF-1 Single-Family Residential District shall be 35% for
interior and corner lots.
(Prior Code, § 70-124) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.059 ACCESSORY BUILDING, USES PERMITTED.
   The following accessory buildings are permitted in an SF-1 Single-Family
Residential District:
   (A)   Private garage, storage, exclusive of industrial or commercial use;
   (B)   Quarters for bona fide servants employed by the occupants of the
dwelling on the same lot, but only on the second floor of the building; and
   (C)   One guesthouse with cooking facilities on lots containing not less
than 12,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-125) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
SF-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.070 INTENT.
   The SF-2 Single-Family Residential District is established for detached
buildings designed or occupied by one family exclusively.
(Prior Code, § 70-146) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.071 WHERE PERMITTED.
   The SF-2 Single-Family Residential Districts are as designated on the
official Zone Map or on a lot which was in single ownership or included in a
subdivision recorded in the office of the County Recorder, meeting the minimum
lot requirements of this district.
(Prior Code, § 70-147) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.072 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   A single-family home in the SF-2 Single-Family Residential District shall be
located on a lot with a minimum area of 20,000 square feet and minimum width of
100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-148) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.073 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the principal building in an SF-2 Single-Family Residential
District, the maximum height shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories.
   (B)   The height of the principal building may be increased above 35 feet
but not higher than 45 feet or three stories if two side yards of 15 feet each
are provided, upon issuance of a special use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 70-149) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.074 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For an SF-2 Single-Family Residential District, there shall be a front
yard between the building line and the street right-of-way line of 25 feet.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may waive this requirement where the
principal buildings on adjoining properties have a front yard setback less than
the minimum requirement.
   (C)   In such situations, the Building Commissioner may authorize a front
yard setback which is the average dimension of the front yards’ setback
dimension of the two adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 70-150) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.075 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For an SF-2 Single-Family Residential District, there shall be two side
yards totaling 15 feet of which neither shall be less than five feet in
dimension.
(Prior Code, § 70-151) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.076 REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For an SF-2 Single-Family Residential District, there shall be a minimum
rear yard setback of no less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-152) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.077 MINIMUM GROUND FLOOR BUILDING AREA.
   The minimum ground floor building area in an SF-2 Single-Family Residential
District shall be not less than 1,250 square feet and each dwelling unit shall
be at least 30 feet in width, measured at the foundation line, and a front
building dimension of no less than 30 feet measured at the foundation line.
(Prior Code, § 70-153) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.078 LOT COVERAGE.
   Lot coverage in an SF-2 Single-Family Residential District shall be 35% for
interior and corner lots.
(Prior Code, § 70-154) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.079 ACCESSORY BUILDING, USES PERMITTED.
   The following accessory buildings are permitted in an SF-2 Single-Family
Residential District:
   (A)   Private garage, storage, exclusive of industrial or commercial use;
   (B)   Quarters for bona fide servants employed by the occupants of the
dwelling on the same lot, but only of the second floor of the building; and
   (C)   One guesthouse with cooking facilities on lots containing not less
than 12,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-155) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
TF TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.090 INTENT.
   The TF Two-Family Residential District is established for detached buildings
designed for or occupied by two families; either a duplex dwelling having one
dwelling unit above the other or a double dwelling having one dwelling unit
beside the other.
(Prior Code, § 70-176) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.091 WHERE PERMITTED.
   The TF Two-Family Residential Districts are as designated on the official
Zone Map and on a lot meeting the minimum lot requirements of the district.
(Prior Code, § 70-177) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.092 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The TF Two-Family Residential District home shall be located on a lot with a
minimum area in square feet and width in feet as follows:
 
                                     Lot Area (square feet) Lot Width (feet)
Without public water supply          10,000                 60
With public water supply but without 7,500                  60
public sewers
With public water supply and public  7,500                  60
sewers
 
(Prior Code, § 70-178) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.093 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   For the principal building in a TF Two-Family Residential District, the
maximum height shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories. The height of the
principal building may be increased above 35 feet but not higher than 45 feet
or three stories if two side yards of 15 feet each are provided, upon issuance
of a special use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 70-179) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.094 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the TF Two-Family Residential District, there shall be a front
yard between the building line and the street right-of-way line of 25 feet.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may waive this requirement where the
principal buildings on adjoining properties have a front yard setback less than
the minimum requirement.
   (C)   In such situations, the Building Commissioner may authorize a front
yard setback which is the average dimension of the front yards’ setback
dimension of the two adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 70-180) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.095 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the TF Two-Family Residential District, there shall be two side yards
totaling 15 feet of which neither shall be less than five feet in dimension.
(Prior Code, § 70-181) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.096 REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the TF Two-Family Residential District, there shall be a minimum rear
yard setback of no less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-182) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.097 MINIMUM GROUND FLOOR BUILDING AREA.
   The minimum ground floor building area in a TF Two-Family Residential
District shall be not less than 1,250 square feet per unit and each dwelling
unit shall be at least 30 feet in width, measured at the foundation line and a
front building dimension of no less than 30 feet measured at the foundation
line.
(Prior Code, § 70-183) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.098 LOT COVERAGE.
   Lot coverage in a TF Two-Family Residential District shall be 35% for
interior and corner lots.
(Prior Code, § 70-184) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.099 ACCESSORY BUILDING, USES PERMITTED.
   The following accessory buildings are permitted in a TF Two-Family
Residential District: private garage or storage, exclusive of industrial or
commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 70-185) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
MF MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.110 INTENT.
   The MF Multifamily Residential District is established for buildings
designed for or occupied by three or more families, exclusively for dwelling
purposes, not exceeding two and one-half stories in height.
(Prior Code, § 70-206) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.111 WHERE PERMITTED.
   The MF Multifamily Residential Districts are to be as designated on the
official Zone Map, on any lot with an area in square feet and a width in feet
meeting the minimum lot requirements of this district, and having public water
and sewerage available to service the lot.
(Prior Code, § 70-207) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.112 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The MF Multifamily Residential District dwelling unit shall be located on a
lot with a minimum area of 3,000 square feet for each dwelling unit and a width
of 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-208) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.113 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   In the MF Multifamily Residential District, principal building maximum
height shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 70-209) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.114 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the MF Multifamily Residential District, there shall be a front yard
between the building line and the street right-of-way line of 25 feet. The
Building Commissioner may waive this requirement where the principal buildings
on adjoining properties have a front yard setback less than the minimum
requirement. In such situations, the Building Commissioner may authorize a
front yard setback which is the average dimension of the front yards’ setback
dimension of the two adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 70-210) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.115 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the MF Multifamily Residential District, there shall be two side yards
totaling 15 feet of which neither shall be less than five feet in dimension.
(Prior Code, § 70-211) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.116 REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the MF Multifamily Residential District, there shall be a minimum rear
yard setback of no less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-212) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.117 MINIMUM GROUND FLOOR BUILDING AREA.
   The minimum ground floor building area in an MF Multifamily Residential
District shall be no less than 900 square feet for each ground floor dwelling
unit and a front building dimension of no less than 30 feet measured at the
foundation line.
(Prior Code, § 70-213) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.118 LOT COVERAGE.
   Lot coverage in an MF Multifamily Residential District shall be 35% for
interior and corner lots.
(Prior Code, § 70-214) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.119 ACCESSORY BUILDING, USES PERMITTED.
   The following accessory buildings are permitted in an MF Multifamily
Residential District: private garage or storage, exclusive of industrial or
commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 70-215) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
LB LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.130 INTENT.
   The LB Local Business District is established for commercial uses primarily
of a retail or service nature.
(Prior Code, § 70-236) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.131 WHERE PERMITTED.
   The LB Local Business District is designated on the official Zone Map and on
a lot meeting the minimum lot requirements of this district.
(Prior Code, § 70-237) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.132 PERMITTED USES.
   The permitted commercial uses in the LB Local Business District are as
follows:
   (A)   Automobile service:
      (1)   Gasoline sales facilities;
      (2)   Commercial garage;
      (3)   Commercial parking lot;
      (4)   Sales room;
      (5)   Open automobile or trailer sales area; and
      (6)   Automobile repair, entirely within enclosed buildings.
   (B)   Business service:
      (1)   Bank;
      (2)   Office;
      (3)   Postal station; and
      (4)   Telephone office.
   (C)   Clothing service:
      (1)   Laundry/dry cleaners;
      (2)   Self-service laundry;
      (3)   Dressmaking and tailoring; and
      (4)   Shoe repair.
   (D)   Equipment service:
      (1)   Electronic sales and service;
      (2)   Appliance shop; and
      (3)   Record shop.
   (E)   Food service:
      (1)   Grocery/super market;
      (2)   Restaurant;
      (3)   Delicatessen;
      (4)   Storage facility, for individual use;
      (5)   Bakery; and
      (6)   Roadside sales stand.
   (F)   Personal service:
      (1)   Barber/beautician;
      (2)   Photographic studio; and
      (3)   Medical services.
   (G)   Retail service, retail stores generally:
      (1)   Drugstore;
      (2)   Hardware;
      (3)   Stationary;
      (4)   Bookstores;
      (5)   Showroom for retail sales;
      (6)   Commercial greenhouse, not exceeding 1,000 square feet in area;
      (7)   Clothing shop;
      (8)   Flower shop; and
      (9)   Antiques sales.
   (H)   Commercial recreational uses (conducted only within buildings so
constructed that no noise of any kind produced therein shall be audible beyond
the confines of the building):
      (1)   Theater;
      (2)   Bowling alley;
      (3)   Billiard room;
      (4)   Dancing academy; and
      (5)   Bar or nightclub only in conformity with requirements of laws or
ordinances governing such use.
   (I)   Lumber yards and related sales facilities;
   (J)   Hotel and bed and breakfast operations;
   (K)   Private club or lodge; and
   (L)   Any other similar uses deemed appropriate in the zoning district as
determined by the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 70-238) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.133 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum lot requirements for the LB Local Business Districts shall be not
less than 7,500 square feet with a minimum lot width of 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-239) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.134 HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   The maximum height of the principal building in an LB Local Business
District shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 70-240) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.135 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For an LB Local Business District, a minimum front yard of 15 feet is
required. The Building Commissioner may waive this requirement where the
principal buildings on adjoining properties have a front yard setback less than
the minimum requirement. In such situations, the Building Commissioner may
authorize a front yard setback which is the average dimension of the front
yards’ setback dimension of the two adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 70-241) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.136 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Along the side street line of a corner lot in an LB District, where
the block is adjoined by a residential block, the minimum dimension shall be
five feet.
   (B)   Where an LB District adjoins a residential district within the block,
there shall be a side yard of at least five feet.
   (C)   In blocks included entirely in LB, GB, or I Districts, no side yards
are required. However, if a side yard is provided, the minimum dimension shall
be five feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-242) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.137 REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the LB Local Business District, there shall be a minimum rear yard
setback of no less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-243) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.138 LOT COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Lot coverage in an LB Local Business District shall be 90%, but this shall
not waive provision of yards where required.
(Prior Code, § 70-244) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
GB GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.150 INTENT.
   The GB General Business District is established for commercial uses
including wholesale and storage uses conducted within enclosed, substantially
constructed buildings.
(Prior Code, § 70-264) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.151 WHERE PERMITTED.
   The GB General Business Districts are as designated on the official Zone Map
and on a lot meeting the minimum lot requirements of this district.
(Prior Code, § 70-265) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.152 PERMITTED USES.
   The permitted commercial uses in the GB General Business District shall be
as follows:
   (A)   Local business uses;
   (B)   Department store;
   (C)   Storage warehouse;
   (D)   Wholesale establishments;
   (E)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station; and
   (F)   Any commercial use not specifically stated or implied elsewhere in
this chapter and complying with the above definition, upon approval as a
special use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 70-266) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.153 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot requirements for the GB General Business District shall be
not less than 20,000 square feet with a minimum lot width of 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-267) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.154 HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   The maximum height of the principal building for the GB General Business
District shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 70-268) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.155 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the GB General Business District, a minimum front yard of 15 feet
is required.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may waive this requirement where the
principal buildings on adjoining properties have a front yard setback less than
the minimum requirement.
   (C)   In such situations, the Building Commissioner may authorize a front
yard setback which is the average dimension of the front yards’ setback
dimension of the two adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 70-269) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.156 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the GB General Business District, no side yards are required. However,
if a side yard is provided, the minimum dimension shall be five feet. A minimum
of a five-foot side yard shall be provided on the property where it abuts a
residence or a residential zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 70-270) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.157 REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the GB General Business District, there shall be a minimum rear yard
setback of no less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-271) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.158 LOT COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Lot coverage in the GB General Business District shall be 90%, but this
shall not waiver provision of yards where required.
(Prior Code, § 70-272) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.170 INTENT.
   An INDUSTRIAL USE in the I Industrial Districts is one which ordinarily uses
machinery; is conducted entirely within an enclosed building; or substantially
constructed building; does not use the open area around such buildings for
storage of raw materials or manufactured products or for any other industrial
purpose, other than loading and unloading operations in the rear; and, which is
not noxious or offensive by reason of emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gas,
odors, noises, or vibrations beyond the confines of the building.
(Prior Code, § 70-292) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Industrial rezonings, see
TSO Table III
§ 154.171 WHERE PERMITTED.
   The I Industrial Districts are as designated on the official Zone Map and on
a lot meeting the minimum lot requirements of this district.
(Prior Code, § 70-293) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.172 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   An industrial use in the I Industrial Districts is one which requires
both buildings and open area for manufacturing, fabricating, processing, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage, or disposal of raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes, which is not injurious to the health or safety of humans or
animals or injurious to vegetation; and which is not noxious or offensive by
reason of the emission of smoke, dust, gas fumes, odors, or vibrations beyond
the limits of the premises upon which such industry is conducted.
   (B)   Included in this classification are all industrial uses fully
complying with the above definition, plus:
      (1)   Automobile wrecking or junk storage as special uses, permitted in
accordance with the procedure specified for special uses, and provided that the
use is confined within enclosed buildings or in yards completely enclosed and
surrounded by solid walls or solid fences at least eight feet in height;
      (2)   Wholesaling storage and warehousing;
      (3)   Veterinary hospital or kennel;
      (4)   Industries with storage of flammable fluids in approved tanks;
      (5)   Truck terminal;
      (6)   Railroad freight house;
      (7)   Utilities storage yard;
      (8)   Coal, coke, or wood yard;
      (9)   Contractor’s plant or storage yard;
      (10)   Bus line shops or garage;
      (11)   Building material storage yard; and
      (12)   Similar uses, as determined by the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 70-294) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.173 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   For the I Industrial District, there are no minimum lot requirements.
(Prior Code, § 70-295) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.174 HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   The maximum height of the principal building for the I Industrial Districts
shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 70-296) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.175 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the I Industrial District, a minimum front yard of 15 feet is required.
The Building Commissioner may waive this requirement where the principal
buildings on adjoining properties have a front yard setback less than the
minimum requirement. In such situations, the Building Commissioner may
authorize a front yard setback which is the average dimension of the front
yards’ setback dimension of the two adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 70-297) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.176 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the I Industrial District, no side yards are required. However, if a
side yard is provided, the minimum dimensions shall be five feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-298) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.177 REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   For the I Industrial District, there shall be a minimum rear yard setback of
no less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 70-299) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.178 LOT COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Lot coverage for the I Industrial District shall be 90%, but this shall not
waive provision of yards where required.
(Prior Code, § 70-300) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.190 INTENT OF DISTRICT AND APPLICABLE PROPERTY SIZE.
   (A)   Recognizing that there is a need for flexibility in providing for
future town needs, in keeping abreast of new building methods, materials, and
the like, and in providing for the planning of: dwellings and the various types
and groups thereof, to secure the benefit of solar orientation, climate
control, and additional privacy, and to provide for variety in dwelling types
to meet changing needs for future residences; and commercial buildings and
groups thereof to secure greater convenience to the public through improved
methods of merchandising, transporting, office management, and distribution of
services necessary to the public welfare; and industrial buildings and groups
thereof to secure greater convenience in production through improved methods of
manufacturing, transportation, office management, and distribution of products
necessary to the public welfare; which may necessitate the variation in the use
and area requirements of this chapter (which are designed primarily to apply to
the traditional pattern of lot development and building arrangement) generally
prevailing within the town and in the regulations applying to buildings, yards,
and the like, the Town Council may amend this chapter and Zoning Map for the
accomplishing of the foregoing purposes, in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   The PUD Planned Unit Development District shall apply to a property,
or combination of properties, under uniform (single) ownership or control
containing a minimum of two acres of land area.
(Prior Code, § 70-320) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.191 DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   A development plan meeting the requirements of §§
154.305 through
154.307 shall accompany all planned unit development applications.
(Prior Code, § 70-321) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.192 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS APPROVAL STANDARDS; SPECIAL USES.
   In the case of a business or manufacturing PUD Planned Unit Development or a
residential PUD Planned Unit Development, the Plan Commission may recommend and
the Town Council may authorize that there be in part of such development and
for the duration of such development, specified uses not determined or
permitted by the use regulations of the district in which said development is
located, provided that the Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals shall
find that:
   (A)   The uses permitted by such special uses are necessary and desirable,
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
   (B)   The uses permitted by such special uses are not of such a nature, or
so located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood; and/or
   (C)   Not more than 20% of the ground area, or of the floor area of such a
development would be devoted to the uses permitted by said special uses.
(Prior Code, § 70-322) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.193 BULK REGULATIONS.
   In the case of any PUD Planned Unit Development, the Board of Zoning Appeals
may authorize variances to the applicable bulk regulations of this chapter
within the boundaries of such development, provided that the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall find that:
   (A)   Such variances would be solely for the purpose of promoting a unified
site plan;
   (B)   The building coverage ratio for a planned unit development may not be
exceeded by more than 15% of the ratio prescribed for the district in which it
is located;
   (C)   The minimum lot-area-per-dwelling-unit requirements of this chapter
would not be decreased by more than 15% in any such development containing
residential uses, and that there shall be available to each residential
building and immediately adjacent thereto, including the land upon which it is
erected, the minimum amount of land area required for such building under the
lot-area-per-dwelling-unit provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Spacing between principal buildings shall be at least equivalent to
such spacing as would be required between buildings similarly developed under
the terms of this chapter on separate lots due consideration being given to the
openness normally afforded by intervening streets and alleys; and
   (E)   Along the periphery of such Planned Unit Development, yards shall be
provided not less than those required by the regulations of the district in
which said development is located.
(Prior Code, § 70-323) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.194 SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   The procedure for review and approval of the site plan for the proposed PUD
Planned Unit Development shall be as follows.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall study the application for the proposed
Planned Unit Development to determine whether the requirements of §§
154.305 through
154.307 are met.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall conduct a public hearing upon the
application for a Planned Unit Development.
   (C)   The Plan Commission shall prepare a report containing its findings of
its study, together with findings based upon the public hearing. Based on the
report, the Plan Commission shall either approve or reject the application for
a Planned Unit Development.
   (D)   No construction shall commence on a Planned Unit Development until a
detailed plan is approved and signed by the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 70-324) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.195 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall show the layout of the total area to be
included in the proposed PUD Planned Unit Development District and shall
indicate and be accompanied by documentary evidence to the satisfaction of the
Plan Commission and Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council may, after consideration of the recommendation of the
Plan Commission, grant approval of the preliminary plan, subject to any
conditions deemed appropriate by the Plan Commission and the Town Council based
upon the following:
      (1)   The plan shall be consistent with the comprehensive plan for the
orderly development of the town and with the purpose of this chapter to promote
the general welfare of the town;
      (2)   The appropriate use and value of property adjacent to the area
included in the plan will be safeguarded;
      (3)   The capacity of existing or proposed utilities, streets, and
thoroughfares is adequate to absorb the additional burden created by the
Special Use District;
      (4)   The development will consist of a harmonious grouping of buildings
or other structures, adequate service, parking, and open spaces, planned as a
single and common operating and maintenance unit, as applicable;
      (5)   The uses included are limited to those permitted in said districts
or where special uses have been approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (6)   All buildings be served by a central sewage disposal system, public
water supply, and public utilities; and
      (7)   If the development is to be carried out in progressive stages, each
stage shall be so planned that the foregoing conditions and intent of this
chapter shall be fully complied with at the completion of any stage.
(Prior Code, § 70-325) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.196 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAN BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may, after consideration of the recommendation of the Plan
Commission; grant approval of the final plan, subject to any conditions deemed
appropriate by the Plan Commission and the Town Council based upon the
following:
   (A)   Adequate provision is made for safe and efficient pedestrian and
vehicular circulation within the site;
   (B)   The scale of the plan should not be less than one inch equals 50 feet
with contours at two-foot intervals and indicating any unusual topographical
features;
   (C)   The location, dimensions, and arrangements of all open spaces, yards,
accessways, entrances, exits, off-street parking facilities, loading and
unloading zones, pedestrian ways, widths of roads, streets, and sidewalks are
adequate to provide for safe and efficient ingress and egress to and from
public streets and highways serving the development;
   (D)   Capacity of all areas to be used for automobile access, parking,
loading, and unloading;
   (E)   Location, uses planned, dimensions, gross floor area, building
coverage, and height of each building or other structure;
   (F)   Location, dimension, and arrangement of all areas devoted to planned
lawns, trees, recreation, and similar purposes;
   (G)   Provisions made for the location of existing or proposed sewage
disposal, water supply, stormwater drainage, parking lot lights, and other
utilities;
   (H)   Sufficient additional data as has been required by the Plan Commission
or the Town Council subsequent to the approval of the preliminary plan to
enable the Town Council to judge the effectiveness of the design and character
of the entire PUD Planned Unit District and to consider properly such things as
the relationship to surrounding area, anticipated traffic, public health,
safety, and general welfare; and
   (I)   A bond or other acceptable assurance for on- and/or off-site
improvements, exclusive of the buildings or structures intended for occupancy,
rental or use, which the Town Council deems necessary to protect public health,
safety, and welfare of the neighborhood shall be furnished.
(Prior Code, § 70-326) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
GENERAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.210 BUILDINGS, USES, ALTERING PROHIBITED FOR ANY PURPOSE OTHER THAN USE
PERMITTED AND SPECIFIED.
   No building or land shall be used and no buildings shall be erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, which is arranged, intended, or
designed to be used for any purpose other than a use which is permitted and
specified in a district in which such building or land is located.
(Prior Code, § 70-346) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.211 HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered to
exceed in height the limits established and specified for the use and the
district in which such building is located.
(Prior Code, § 70-347) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
Cross-reference:
   Accessory building height, see §
154.215
   Maximum heights for business districts, see §§
154.134 and
154.154
   Maximum heights for residential districts, see §§
154.054,
154.073,
154.093, and
154.113
   Maximum height for industrial districts, see §
154.174
§ 154.212 YARDS, LOT AREA, AND SIZE OF BUILDING.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered
in any manner which will encroach upon, or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot
area per family, ground floor area of residential buildings or lot coverage
regulations, established and specified for the use and the district in which
such building is located.
   (B)   One-half of an alley abutting the rear lot may be included in the
required rear yard, however, none of this area can be credited or used to meet
requirements for loading and unloading berths.
(Prior Code, § 70-348) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.213 LOT LOCATION.
   Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a lot which fronts on a
public street or private street approved by the Plan Commission and Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 70-349) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.214 VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOT.
   Vision clearance shall be eight feet from the intersection of property
lines, abutting any street, alley or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 70-350) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.215 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings shall not be permitted prior to the erection of
the principal building, except for storage purposes and not for human
occupancy.
   (B)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer to a side lot
line than five feet.
   (C)   The normal maximum height permitted shall be 18 feet or one and one-
half stories.
   (D)   The height of accessory buildings may be increased to 25 feet or two
stories, provided the minimum required five-foot distance from side lot lines
is increased one foot for each two feet above the normal maximum height
permitted, upon the granting of a special use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Following are special use considerations which can be granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals:
      (1)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by buildings,
the average setback of such buildings determines the dimensions of the front
yard in the block, but the maximum front yard need not exceed the minimum
requirement of the district regulation;
      (2)   Front yard or setback lines established in recorded subdivisions
establish the dimensions of front yards in such blocks, except when such
setback lines may be less restrictive, as provided in §
154.002; and
      (3)   On lots extending through from one street to another, a front yard
is required on each street.
         (a)   Tapered yard. Where a reversed interior lot abuts a corner lot,
or on an alley separating such lots, any accessory building located on the rear
lot line of a corner lot shall set back from the side street as far as the
dwelling on the reserved interior lot; for each foot that such accessory
building is placed from the rear line towards the front line of the corner lot,
the accessory building may be set four inches closer to the side street line,
but in no case closer than five feet.
         (b)   Maximum height. The normal maximum height of structures may be
increased, upon approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals, as follows.
            1.   Buildings may be erected higher than the normal maximum if
they are set back, from front and rear property lines, one foot for each two
feet of additional height above the normal maximum height.
            2.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
penthouses, stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers, or essential
mechanical appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by other
laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 70-351) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.216 VEHICLE PARKING SPACE; LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS.
   (A)   Every building hereafter erected shall provide off-street parking
space for motor vehicles and loading and unloading berths as specified
hereinafter for the use to which such building is to be devoted.
   (B)   Groups of uses requiring vehicle parking space may join in
establishing group parking areas with capacity aggregating that required for
each participating use:
      (1)   Residential SF-1, SF-2, TF, and MF Districts: One space on the lot
for each family housed in the principal building.
      (2)   Commercial Business LB and GB Districts: One parking space for each
300 square feet of gross floor area shall be provided on the lot, or within 300
feet thereof on a site approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Industrial Uses I Districts: Parking spaces equaling one space for
each employee working on the site during all “work shifts” shall be provided on
the lot or within 300 feet thereof on a site approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (C)   Loading and unloading berths shall be provided on the lot as follows:
 
Gross Floor Area (square feet) Loading and Unloading Berths
15,000 or less                 1
15,001 to 40,000               2
40,001 to 100,000              3
Each 40,000 additional         1 additional
 
(Prior Code, § 70-352) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.217 PAVING OF PARKING AND LOADING AREAS.
   Open parking areas and loading and unloading berths shall be paved with a
dustproof or hard surface meeting the standard specifications of the town.
(Prior Code, § 70-353) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.218 PLACEMENT OF TYPE I MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to encourage the provision of
alternative housing in residential areas by permitting the use of Type I
manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which similar
dwellings constructed on site are permitted, subject to the requirements and
procedures set forth herein to ensure acceptable similarity in exterior
appearance between such Type I manufactured homes and dwellings that have been
or might be construed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or
nearby lots in the same district.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INSTALLATION STANDARDS (as applied to manufactured homes.) The standards
for installation of manufactured homes, Type I, as adopted and copyrighted by
the Manufactured Housing Institute and the National Fire Protection Association
contained within their publications: “Standard for the Installation of
Manufactured Homes,” except for footings, foundations, and related support
system components which shall conform with divisions (F) through (K) below.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site
manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code or Pub. Law No.
360, Acts of 1981, as promulgated by the Indiana Administrative Building
Council. The term MANUFACTURED HOME, TYPE I is defined as meeting all of the
appropriate requirements of §§
154.090 through
154.099 except as provided in divisions (F) through (K) below.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (Pub. Law No. 93-383, U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq.), as amended (previously known as the federal Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which
has been stamped and approved by a Design Approval Primary Inspection Agency,
who is an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
pursuant to HUD rules, and regulation and interpretations of said code by the
state’s Administrative Building Council, except as provided in divisions (F)
through (K) below.
      OCCUPIED SPACE (as applied to manufactured homes.) The total area of
earth horizontally covered by the structure, excluding accessory structures,
such as, but not limited to, garages, patios, and porches.
      ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY CODE. The nationally recognized model building code
prepared by the Uniform Building Code International Code Council, Inc.
   (C)   Where permitted. The establishment, location, and use of Type I
manufactured homes as permanent residences approved individually, by specific
materials or by design, shall be permitted in SF-1, and SF-2 Residential
Districts, subject to requirements and limitations applying generally to such
residential use in the district, and provided such homes shall meet the
following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The dwelling shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance and
related installation standards, as hereinafter set forth in divisions (F)
through (K) below.
      (2)   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where such use is
permitted.
      (3)   The dwelling shall have a ground floor area not less than 1,250
square feet in total area; and
      (4)   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and conform with
all ordinances of the town.
   (D)   Nonconforming existing homes. A manufactured or mobile home placed and
maintained on a tract of land and deemed to be a legal nonconforming use prior
to the adoption of this chapter, shall continue to be a legal nonconforming
use. If the nonconforming use is discontinued, as provided in §§
154.240 through
154.246 the building and/or land thereafter must be used in conformity with all
provisions of the zoning chapter.
   (E)   Replacement of existing nonconforming homes. A manufactured or mobile
home, deemed a legal nonconforming use, may be replaced by a manufactured home,
provided the replacement is of an equal or higher type, as specified in
division (F) below, the Exterior Appearance Standards. Equal or higher type
means that a mobile home may be replaced with a Type I manufactured home; a
Type I manufactured home can only be replaced with another Type I manufactured
home building after January 1, 1992, that meets all specifications set forth by
this chapter. The Building Commissioner has to approve all requests under this
section.
   (F)   Exterior appearance standards. Manufactured homes shall be classified
as to acceptable compatibility or similarity in appearance with site-
constructed residences, as follows.
      (1)   A Type I manufactured home shall:
         (a)   Be no more than five years old or constructed after January 1,
1992;
         (b)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
154.111 through
154.119 specifications B—Residential uses, single-family dwelling, as adopted
by the Manufactured Housing Institute and the National Fire Protection
Association;
         (c)   Be placed onto a permanent exterior perimeter retaining wall, in
accordance with approved installation standards, as specified in §§
154.111 through
154.119;
         (d)   Be anchored to the ground and foundation in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
154.111 through
154.119;
         (e)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
         (f)   Meet appropriate utility connection standards, in accordance
with approved installation standards, as specified in §§
154.111 through
154.119;
         (g)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences. See approved material list;
         (h)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences. See approved material list;
         (i)   Each single-family dwelling with one and one-half or more
stories shall have a minimum first floor area of not less than 1,250 square
feet; and
         (j)   Have a minimum width of 30 feet.
      (2)   Approved siding and roofing materials list for Type I manufactured
homes:
         (a)   Siding:
            1.   Residential horizontal aluminum lap siding;
            2.   Residential horizontal vinyl lap siding;
            3.   Cedar or other wood siding;
            4.   Wood grain, weather resistant, pressboard siding;
            5.   Stucco siding; and
            6.   Brick or stone siding.
         (b)   Roofing:
            1.   Fiberglass shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
            2.   Shake shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
            3.   Asphalt shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles; and
            4.   Tile materials on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications.
   (G)   Perimeter retaining wall. Those manufactured homes designated in this
chapter as requiring permanent perimeter retaining walls must be set onto an
excavated area, with foundations, footing and crawlspace or basement walls
constructed in accordance with the terms of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code. The space between the floor joists of the home and the excavated ground
and foundation grade shall be completely enclosed with the perimeter retaining
wall. The wall shall be composed of solid masonry or concrete block, which in
all cases shall extend below the frost line. The design, by a registered
professional engineer or architect, shall safely support those loads, as
determined by the character of the soil.
   (H)   Support system foundation. In addition to the code requirements in
divisions (H)(1) and (H)(2) below the minimum design standards in this section
shall apply to all manufactured homes.
      (1)   Type I manufactured homes;
      (2)   Pub. Law No. 360 homes. All Pub. Law No. 360 Code Home foundations
shall be installed in conformance with the regulations in the One- and Two-
Family Dwelling Code with the manufacturer’s installation specifications; and
      (3)   Pier design.
   (I)   Piers and caps. Piers of load-bearing supports or devices shall be
designated and constructed to evenly distribute the loads. Piers shall be
securely attached to the frame of the home or extend at least six inches from
the centerline of the frame member. Manufactured load-bearing supports or
devices shall be approved for the use intended, or piers shall be constructed
as follows.
      (1)   When single eight-inch by 16-inch concrete blocks are used, they
shall not exceed three feet high, with open cells vertically placed upon the
footing and with the 16-inch dimension perpendicular to the I-beam frame, and
they then shall be covered with two-inch by eight-inch by 16-inch preservative-
treated hardwood or solid concrete block caps.
      (2)   When four-inch high and five-inch high block piers are used, they
shall be double-blocked with interlocking concrete blocks and they shall be
covered with four-inch by eight-inch by 16-inch preservative-treated hardwood
or solid concrete block caps.
      (3)   For piers extending more than 40 inches above finished grade level,
they shall be double blocked with interlocking concrete blocks, with Number
Three reinforcing steel in the four comers, poured solid with 2,500 psi
concrete, and they shall be covered with four-inch by eight-inch by 16-inch
preservative-treated hardwood or concrete caps.
   (J)   Plate and shims. The plate shall be a cushion of preservative-treated
hardwood or other approved material not exceeding two inches in thickness. The
preservative-treated hardwood shims, which cannot exceed one inch in thickness,
shall be used to fill the gap between the top of the pier cap and the frame of
the home. Two-inch or four-inch solid concrete blocks may be used to fill the
remainder of any gap. Shims shall be fitted and driven tight between the plate
and the main frame.
   (K)   Anchoring system. All manufactured homes shall be anchored meeting one
of the following approved standards:
      (1)   Installation pursuant to manufacturer’s specifications;
      (2)   Installation pursuant to the design of the entire support and
anchoring system by a registered professional engineer or architect;
      (3)   Installation pursuant to the regulations established in the ANSI/
NFPA 501A Installation Standards;
      (4)   Installation pursuant to standards and requirements of the Indiana
Building Code as adopted by the town; and
      (5)   Installation pursuant to the standards and requirements of the
utility company, as approved by the Building Department.
   (L)   Permits. Prior to the location, relocation, or establishment of any
Type I manufactured home, the homeowner or authorized representative shall
secure from the Building Commissioner a building permit and electrical permit.
Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Those site (plot) plans as required for all dwelling units, but
which at a minimum include elevations or photographs of all sides of the home,
exterior dimensions, roof materials, perimeter retaining wall treatment,
foundation construction and materials, exterior finishes, and the like (see
building permit);
      (2)   Health Department approval for any sewage disposal or water supply,
where applicable;
      (3)   A copy of the approved installation instructions, which will be
used for installation purposes, where applicable;
      (4)   Such other information as may be required by the Building
Commissioner for proper enforcement of this chapter; and
      (5)   An agreement signed by the homeowner or authorized representative
pledging compliance with the terms set by the Plan Commission Board of Zoning
Appeals and/or the Town Council.
   (M)   Issuance of permits. After receipt of the information required for a
building permit, the Building Commissioner shall review the standards set in
this chapter. If the applicant has met all required standards, then within
seven days the building permit shall be issued by the Building Commissioner.
   (N)   Additional action necessary.
      (1)   If after receipt of the information required for a building permit,
the Building Commissioner finds that the applicant has not fully met the
standards set in this chapter and other ordinances and the changes or
additional actions needed are deemed by the Commissioner to be relatively minor
or simple, within ten days a conditional approval can be issued, with the
stated conditions which must be met prior to occupancy spelled out, and the
reasons for change clearly stated in writing.
      (2)   If the applicant agrees in writing to the further conditions, the
effect being an amendment to the applications to conform to the requirements,
approval is given and the applicant proceeds. If the applicant does not agree,
the application is denied, with reasons stated in writing.
   (O)   Denial of permit. If an application for the permit for a Type I
manufactured home deviates from the requirements of this chapter, the permit
will be denied with a written statement specifying the reasons for the denial.
   (P)   Certificate of occupancy. Prior to the occupancy of any manufactured
home, Type I, the homeowner or authorized representative shall secure from the
Building Commissioner a certificate of occupancy, stating that the building and
its use comply with all provisions of the ordinance applicable to the building
or the use in the district in which it is to be located.
   (Q)   Removal for violation. A home, sited upon property in violation of
this chapter, shall be subject to removal from such property. However, the
homeowner must be given a 30-day period to bring the property into compliance
before action for removal can be taken. If action finally is taken by the
appropriate authority to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be made a
lien against the property.
   (R)   Violation to be prevented, abated, or removed. The Building
Commissioner may institute a suit in an appropriate court for the injunctive
relief to cause such violation to be prevented, abated, or removed.
(Prior Code, § 70-354) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.219 REGULATION AND PERMITTING OF POOLS, DECKS, AND FENCES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence construction of a new fence, deck or
pool, before commencing any excavation, building or similar activity, shall
file an application for a permit with the Building Commissioner with the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person applying for the permit;
      (2)   The name and address of all neighboring landowners and other
parties of interest, as shall be determined by the Building Commissioner;
      (3)   A sketch of the construction planned;
      (4)   A brief narrative description of the structure being built, the
methods and material to be used in construction, including whether any power
equipment will be employed, and whether any impact on neighbors’ trees, shrubs,
lawn, or other plantings or property are anticipated;
      (5)   The methods used to determine the location of the property line and
compliance with the setback requirements set forth herein shall be described;
      (6)   The date of anticipated completion of the construction;
      (7)   Any other information required by the Building Commissioner
reasonably necessary to effectuate this section; and
      (8)   The application fee, as established by the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   All fences, decks, pools, and other construction permitted
hereunder shall be set back from the neighboring property lines, easements of
record, and streets a minimum of ten feet, and the owner of thereof shall
continue to be responsible for all maintenance up to the property line, unless
the adjoining landowners shall file a joint application together with any and
all documents, covenants, and agreements required to create a party fence
agreement binding on the parties and heir successors in interest. In the event
that a greater setback shall be required by any covenant, regulation, or other
ordinance, such more restrictive setback requirement shall govern.
      (2)   A fence of six feet in height or less that does not create a visual
barrier, such as a chainlink or woven wire fence with the post located on the
permittee’s side of the property line, may be exempted from the setback
requirements, but in no case shall a fence be constructed upon an easement.
   (C)   (1)   No fence, wall, screen, or partition that creates a visual
barrier greater than six feet in height abovegrade shall be permitted, unless
written agreement from all neighboring landowners is submitted with the
application.
      (2)   In the event that a neighboring landowner cannot be contacted, a
return of certified mail to his, her, or their last known address as shown for
the property tax purposes in the Auditor’s office showing the mail was
undeliverable, together with an affidavit of the applicant showing diligent and
good faith efforts to contact the landowner were to no avail, may be accepted
by the Building Commissioner as a basis for the waiver or objection by the
neighboring landowner.
(Prior Code, § 70-355) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.220 PARKING, STORAGE, OR USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT is
defined as including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pickup campers
or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized
dwellings, tent trailers, and the like, and cases or boxes used for
transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not.
      (2)   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any
lot other than in GB General Business District or I Industrial District except:
          (a)   In the SF-1, SF-2, MF Residential, or LB Local Business
Districts unless a special use permit for outside display has been approved;
         (b)   In an enclosed building; or
         (c)   In a residential district where equipment is stored on property
owned or rented and occupied by the owner of the recreational equipment, when
placed in an enclosed building or in a rear yard.
   (B)   Boats must be trailerable and stored without benefit of cradles or
other artificial stationary supports.
   (C)   No such major recreational equipment shall be used for living,
sleeping, or housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot,
or in any location not approved for such use.
(Prior Code, § 70-356) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.221 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Automotive vehicles, including trucks, semi-tractors, tractor-trailer
combinations, or trailers of any kind or type (which shall be operable in
accordance with town ordinance provisions) without current license plates shall
not be parked or stored on any SF-1, SF-2 or MF residentially-zoned property
other than in completely enclosed buildings.
   (B)   The number of operable automotive or other vehicles which can be
parked or stored, nonenclosed, on a residentially zoned lot shall not exceed
the number of licensed vehicle operators residing in the dwelling unit, other
than commercial business vehicles owned or assigned to vehicle operators
residing on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 70-357) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.222 DUMPING OF RUBBISH.
   (A)   No person shall store, dump, or cause to be dumped, any garbage, tin
cans, papers, automobile vehicles or truck bodies or parts, machinery, stoves,
refrigerators, junk, movable structures, or waste materials of any kind of
description on any land, private or public, situated in the town unless such
place has been expressly designated as a public dumping ground to receive such
materials by the Town Council as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The storing or dumping of garbage anywhere in the town is expressly
prohibited as a menace to public health.
   (C)   The storing or dumping of papers, tin cans, household refuse, brush,
and tree limbs only is permitted on the public dumping grounds designated by,
and subject to, the rules established therefor by the town.
   (D)   The dumping and accumulation of rubble, used building materials waste
from razed structures, trees, and stumps is expressly forbidden on any land,
public or private, including the aforesaid designated public dumping grounds;
provided, however, nothing in this section is intended to preclude the use of
such materials for fill or in approved conservation practices where such
materials are to be covered in reclaiming land or preventing the erosion
thereof.
   (E)   Automobile and truck bodies or parts and junk or inoperable machinery
and equipment may be disposed of only at designated junkyard or recycling
centers.
(Prior Code, § 70-358) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.223 JUNK OR INOPERABLE CARS, TRUCKS, OR VEHICLES.
   No property owner in any district may maintain, or allow to be maintained,
any junk or inoperable cars, trucks, trailers, motorcycle, machinery, or other
similar equipment or vehicles on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 70-359) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see § 154..999
§ 154.224 BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATIONS.
   Bed and breakfast operations shall be subject to the following special
provisions.
   (A)   Because many older, single-family homes are larger and represent
sizeable maintenance and energy costs for a single family, it is feared that
restriction to only single-family use may foster inadequate maintenance or even
abandonment. The possible consequences may be a general appearance of blight
which, if allowed to proceed in a downward trend, could erode the social
stability of a neighborhood. Based upon the above, some areas are regarded as
conducive for limited use for bed and breakfast purposes; but only when certain
conditions as may be required by the Plan Commission in order to preserve the
character, as well as the health, safety, and welfare of the neighborhood are
met.
   (B)   A residential structure shall not have or be converted to more rental
rooms than the number of bedrooms which exist at the time of enactment of this
amendment and adequate living space must be preserved for manager or owner’s
quarters. A common room for guest relaxation is required in these facilities.
Unless owner occupied, the manager must reside on and have more than a nominal
equity interest in the premises.
   (C)   Off-street parking for one vehicle for each bedroom to be rented must
be available in addition to requirements for residential family vehicles.
   (D)   Bathrooms must be furnished for guestrooms. One bathroom is to serve
not more than four guestrooms.
   (E)   No separate cooking facilities are permitted for a bed and breakfast
operation if continental breakfast is served.
   (F)   One sign in residential areas shall be permitted not to exceed nine
square feet of display area.
   (G)   Inspection and approval by the Building Commissioner are required
prior to occupancy of the bed and breakfast. Health department approval is
required if other than continental breakfast is planned.
   (H)   Bed and breakfast operations shall be limited to short-term occupancy,
not to exceed 30 continuous days.
   (I)   A residence must contain a minimum of 2,400 square feet of livable
floor space to be converted into a bed and breakfast.
   (J)   Parking shall be provided according to the following formula; two
spaces, plus one space for each guestroom, plus one space for each employee on
duty at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 70-360) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.225 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES.
   Adult entertainment businesses, meeting the definition of adult
entertainment business as set forth in §
154.003 or those similar in character, shall be subject to the following
special provisions.
   (A)   All business shall be the principal use of a building located in the I
Industrial District and subject to the provisions of §§
154.030 through
154.038. and be approved as a special use in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   No business shall be located within 1,000 feet, measured from the
perimeter of the building to the lot line of zoning lot containing a
residential, commercial, or public building.
   (C)   All business shall be conducted in an enclosed building having an
occupancy of less than 50 persons, as determined by the Fire Chief or Building
Commissioner based on nationally recognized occupancy standards established by
the National Fire Insurance Board or town’s Building Code or Fire Protection
Standard organization.
   (D)   Any building used may have not more than 40% of the floor area devoted
to storage purposes incidental to such primary use.
(Prior Code, § 70-361) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.226 SIGNS AND SIGN CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose, intent, and scope. The requirement of this section is to
provide the minimum requirements to promote the public health, safety,
aesthetics, and welfare of the town, and to maintain, enhance, improve, and
protect the appearance and character of residential, commercial, and industrial
areas of the town. This section seeks to balance the individual rights of
property owners to communicate their message with the public’s right to be free
of unreasonable distractions and aesthetic intrusions. Additionally, this
section will improve traffic safety and control the number, location, size, and
type of signs while still permitting reasonable identification and advertising.
   (B)   Rules of interpretation; compliance.
      (1)   If not otherwise specified, the owner of the property upon which a
sign is located will be held responsible for compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   For political signs, the violation will be construed to have been
made by the individual affixing the sign, the candidate whose name or picture
appears on the sign, or the campaign organization of the candidate.
      (3)   If a conflict occurs between the contents of this section with
those of any other town ordinance as pertains to signs, this section will
prevail.
      (4)   Any dispute or ambiguity concerning the interpretation of this
section shall be resolved by the Building Commissioner, subject to appeal of
this decision to the Town Council.
   (C)   Administration, inspection and enforcement. The Building Commissioner
shall have the power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
The Building Commissioner may, in his, her, or their discretion and with his,
her, or their consent, delegate and assign such administrative, enforcement,
and inspection duties hereunder, to the town’s Police Department, Fire
Department, or other appropriate person or agency.
   (D)   Permit requirements; exceptions. Signs will be permitted in all zoning
districts subject to the requirements of this section. All new signs shall be
required to have a permit. Application for a sign permit shall be accompanied
by a fee pursuant to a fee schedule established by motion or resolution of the
Town Council, and such application shall be on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office. No sign shall be constructed, structurally altered, extended or
relocated until such a permit has been issued. No permit shall be issued until
the Building Commissioner determines that the sign is in compliance with this
section.
      (1)   Sign requirements, Residential Districts.
         (a)   No sign shall exceed five square feet in total area; nor be
closer than eight feet to any side and rear lot line, and ten feet from the
front lot line, or one-half the depth of the front yard, whichever is greater;
nor project higher than one story, or ten feet above curb level, whichever is
lower. All temporary signs shall be removed within seven days after the event
advertised has taken place.
         (b)   Illuminated nameplates are permitted subject to the following
regulations.
            1.   In any Residential District and residential portion of a PUD,
a nameplate shall not exceed two square feet in total area, and shall indicate
only the name, or name and address, of the occupant, and the home occupation as
defined herein, if authorized as a special use and a permit is obtained. There
shall be not more than one such nameplate for each dwelling.
            2.   In. MF districts, a nameplate may be not more than three
square feet in total area, provided it indicates only the name or name and
address of the dwelling; such a nameplate may be located in a front yard not
less than four feet from the front lot line, or one-half the depth of the front
yard, whichever is greater, nor be higher than one story, or ten feet above
curb level, whichever is lower.
         (c)   Illuminated, nonflashing, and nonblinking (defined as
intermittent illumination) church bulletin signs are permitted subject to the
following regulations: there shall be not more than one sign per lot, except
that on a corner lot two signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted; no
sign shall exceed 16 square feet in area, nor be closer than eight feet to any
side and rear lot line, and four feet to the front lot line, or one-half the
depth of the front yard, whichever is greater; nor project higher than one
story, or ten feet above curb level, whichever is lower.
      (2)   Sign Requirements, Business industrial districts. In addition to a
sign mounted to the building or painted onto a window, one elevated or ground
nonflashing and non blinking (defined as intermittent illumination) but
illuminated business sign with no moving parts, awnings, and/or marquees is
permitted subject to regulations set forth elsewhere in the ordinances of the
town and the following.
         (a)   Where a sign is illuminated by light reflected upon it, direct
rays of light shall not beam onto any adjoining property or onto any street. A
sign in any direct line of vision of any traffic signal shall not have red,
green, or amber illumination.
         (b)   The gross surface area in square feet of all signs on a lot
shall not exceed one times
the linear feet of frontage of the lot, and for lots fronting on more than one
street, only the established front lot line shall be considered as frontage of
the lot.
         (c)   Any sign affixed to a building shall not project therefrom
nearer than two feet from the abutting curb.
         (d)   Any elevated sign shall be not nearer than two feet from the
nearest street right-of-way line and not nearer than five feet from a side or
rear lot line. The leading edge of the sign shall be the point of measurement
for determination of the setback.
         (e)   A sign affixed to a building shall not project higher than four
feet above the building height, and a sign projecting more than 15 inches from
a building wall shall have its lowest level not less than 12 feet above the
grade below it.
         (f)   Any elevated sign shall not project higher than 24 feet above
the grade below it, and shall have its lowest levels not less than 12 feet from
the natural grade below. Such signs may be constructed with or supported by not
more than two columns, each having a width not greater than eight inches in
width. Nothing shall be added to the columns which exceeds the width dimension.
         (g)   Any ground-mounted sign shall not exceed six feet in height
measured from the surrounding natural grade and shall not be located closer
than ten feet to the right-of-way line of a front yard or side yard abutting a
street, measured perpendicular to the street. On a corner lot a ground-mounted
sign near the intersection of two streets shall not be located within a
triangle formed by measuring 30 feet from each street along the right-of-way
lines and connecting the points. A ground sign may not be located closer than
ten feet from the edge of the usable surface of any driveway, alley, or other
“curb cut” which provides vehicular access to the lot. The leading edge of the
sign shall be the point of measurement for determination of the setback.
         (h)   In a unified shopping center, in single ownership or control,
one additional sign may be erected for it; the sign shall not exceed 150 square
feet in area nor display more than the name and location of the shopping
center; such sign shall be setback at least half the required yard depth
distance from each abutting street and its bottom edge shall be at least 12
feet above the level of the ground, and its overall height shall not exceed 24
feet above the curb level.
         (i)   No additions, modifications, or attachments shall be permitted
inconsistent with an approved sign permit without amendment of the sign permit
using the same procedures as provided by the issuance of the original sign
permit.
         (j)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby granted the authority to
grant a variance up to 25% of the setback and sign size dimensions, set forth
in this section, based on the finding that such a variance will not adversely
affect adjacent property owners or inhibit visual sight lines required along
streets and road rights-of-way.
         (k)   An inflatable balloon used for the purpose of product
advertising shall be permitted as a temporary sign in the GB Zoning District
for a period not to exceed seven days. A sign permit is required from the
Building Commissioner who shall determine that the usage and placement of the
balloon will meet safety standards.
      (3)   Exceptions to sign requirements. The following temporary signs
shall be exempt from this permit requirement, provided that: such signs have no
electrical parts or usage; any such sign is only erected by or with the express
consent of the occupant of the premises or the owner of the property; such
signs do not exceed five square feet in total area; and the sign setback
requirements for the appropriate zoning district are met:
         (a)   Political campaign signs and signs promoting community or not-
for-profit events;
         (b)   Real estate signs;
         (c)   Construction signs in connection with a specific construction
project taking place on the property where the sign is located;
         (d)   Garage and yard sale signs. A permit, however, is required for
the sale; and
         (e)   Warning and/or nonadvertising signs or symbols (e.g., no
trespassing or no dumping signs) located on and pertaining to the parcel of
property on which the sign is located.)
   (E)   Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are prohibited in all
districts, unless authorized by the Town Council:
      (1)   Any sign which is in need of maintenance, or which is no longer
functional or is abandoned;
         (a)   Signs shall be considered no longer functional and abandoned
when such sign is materially obstructed from view, when its essential elements
are no longer readable, when a sign has been left by a business or other use
which has ceased to operate, or when a condition of deterioration or
dilapidation of the sign face or structure is in evidence;
         (b)   All signs shall be repaired, removed, or relocated in compliance
with the regulations of this subchapter within 30 days after official
notification by the Building Commissioner;
      (2)   Any sign which is constructed, altered, located, or illuminated in
any manner which causes undue glare, distraction, confusion, nuisance, noise,
or hazard to traffic or to other properties. No sign may be illuminated after
11:00 p.m, if it is located within or adjacent to any residential district,
except those businesses remaining open beyond that time, in which case
illumination shall cease upon closing;
      (3)   No sign which has a rotating beam, beacon, flashing, or alternating
illumination shall be permitted for advertising or identification purposes
where no hazard or need for caution exists. This section shall not be construed
as prohibiting time or temperature devices customarily identified with banks or
lending institutions or barber poles, provided such devices meet all other
applicable provisions of the chapter. Scrolling message signs are permitted;
      (4)   Any sign that is attached to a tree or other living vegetation,
utility pole, rock, curbstone, sidewalk, lamppost, hydrant, bridge, highway
marker, or other sign, except for public informational signs;
      (5)   Any sign displayed on a stationary vehicle or trailer when said
vehicle or trailer is used primarily for the purpose of serving the functions
of a sign;
      (6)   Any sign so placed that it obstructs any window, door, fire escape,
stairway, ladder, opening, or access intended for light, air, ingress to, or
egress from any building;
      (7)   Signs advertising activities which are illegal under federal,
state, or county laws or regulations or city ordinances;
      (8)   Any sign which makes use of a word such as “stop,” “look,”
“danger,” or similar words, phrases, symbols, or characters in such manner as
to imply the need or requirement of stopping or the existence of danger; and
      (9)   Any sign on public property, including a right-of-way, or in any
location obstructing the view of motorists.
(Prior Code, § 70-362) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.227 “HOME OCCUPATION” DEFINED; APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The term HOME OCCUPATION means an accessory use which:
      (1)   Is clearly incidental to or secondary to the residential use of a
dwelling unit or rooming unit;
      (2)   Is carried on within a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or accessory
building by one or more occupants of such dwelling unit or rooming unit, except
that, in connection with the practice of a profession, one person not residing
in such dwelling unit or rooming unit may be employed; and
      (3)   Occupies no more than 25% of the total floor area of such dwelling
unit or rooming unit and not more than 500 square feet of floor area if located
in an accessory building.
   (B)   In connection with the operation of a home occupation, it shall not be
permitted to:
      (1)   Sell articles produced elsewhere than on the premises;
      (2)   Have exterior displays, or a display of goods visible from the
outside;
      (3)   Store materials or products outside of a principal or accessory
building or other structure;
      (4)   Display, in any district, a nameplate or other sign except as
permitted in connection with the practice of a profession;
      (5)   Make external structural alterations which are not customary in
residential buildings; or
      (6)   Produce offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other
particulate matter, odorous matter, heat, humidity, glare, or other
objectionable effects.
   (C)   Home occupations include:
      (1)   Fine arts studios;
      (2)   Professional offices;
      (3)   Barbershops;
      (4)   Beauty parlors;
      (5)   Teaching of not more than four pupils simultaneously, or, in the
case of musical instruction, of not more than a single pupil at a time; and
      (6)   Similar occupations and businesses as determined by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Home occupations shall not include:
      (1)   Commercial stables or kennels;
      (2)   Depilatory, electrolysis, or similar offices; or
      (3)   Any and all other similar occupations and businesses or any
business operation which may cause traffic congestion, noises, or a visual
appearance which is inconsistent with the surrounding neighborhood.
   (E)   No home occupation shall commence operations, without application for
a permit for such purposes filed with the Building Commissioner and receipt of
approval for such use issued by the Board of Zoning Appeals, pursuant to §§
154.030 through
154.038.
(Prior Code, § 70-363) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
NONCONFORMING USE SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.240 CONTINUATION THEREOF AND RECONSTRUCTIONS.
   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of passage of
the ordinance from which this subchapter is derived, may be continued although
such use does not conform to all the provisions of this chapter, except as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 70-383) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.241 EXTENSION THROUGHOUT BUILDING.
   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout a building provided no
structural alterations are made therein, except those required by law.
(Prior Code, § 70-384) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.242 CHANGE TO ANOTHER NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use of the
same or greater restrictions, provided no structural changes are made in the
building.
   (B)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use or
to a use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use or a less restricted one.
(Prior Code, § 70-385) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.243 ERECTION AND RE-ERECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   No building shall be erected upon any premises devoted to a nonconforming
use, and no building located upon any such premises which has been damaged by
fire or other causes to the extent of more than 50% of its appraised valuation
as determined by the Township Assessor, shall be repaired or rebuilt, except in
conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70-386) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.244 RIGHT TO CONSTRUCT IF PERMIT ISSUED.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of a building for which a building permit has
been issued before the date of adoption of the comprehensive Chapter 154 of
this code of ordinances amendment from which this chapter is derived.
(Prior Code, § 70-387) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Certificate of occupancy, see §
154.262
   Zoning compliance prior to issuance of building permit, see §
154.261
§ 154.245 USE TO CONFORM AFTER DISCONTINUANCE.
   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued for a period of six months, the use of the same shall thereafter
conform to the uses permitted in the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 70-388) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.246 NONCONFORMING USE CREATED BY AMENDMENT.
   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
nonconforming use due to a later amendment to this chapter.   
(Prior Code, § 70-389) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.260 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner of the town is hereby designated and authorized to
enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70-409) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.261 ZONING COMPLIANCE PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Within the jurisdiction area of the town, no structure, improvement,
or land may be altered, changed, placed, erected, or located on platted or
unplatted lands unless the structure, improvement, or use and its location,
conform with the master plan and ordinances of the town and a building permit
for such structure, improvement, or use has been issued. The Building
Commissioner of the town shall issue a building permit, upon written
application, when the proposed structure, improvement, or use and its location
conform in all respects to the master plan of the town.
   (B)   Every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plot
(site) plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of the structure,
improvement, or use to be altered, changed, placed, erected, or located, the
dimensions of the lot to be improved, the size of yards and open spaces,
existing and proposed streets and alleys adjoining or within the lot, and the
manner in which the location is to be improved. Application for a building
permit for new construction of a principal building, an accessory building or
for alteration of an existing building, shall be accompanied by the fee set
forth in the schedules of fees adopted by the Town Council, as recommended by
the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Any decision of the Building Commissioner of the town concerning the
issuance of a building permit may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals by
any person claiming to be adversely affected by such decision.
(Prior Code, § 70-410) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.262 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used, and no building hereafter erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered shall be occupied or used, in whole or
in part for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued by the Building Commissioner stating that the building and use
comply with all of the provisions of this chapter applicable to the building or
premises or the use in the district in which it is to be located.
   (B)   No change in use shall be made in any building or part thereof, now or
hereafter erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered without a certificate
of occupancy having been issued by the Building Commissioner, and no such
permit shall be issued to make such change unless it is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The certificate of occupancy shall be applied for coincidentally with
the application for a building permit and shall be issued within ten days after
the lawful erection, reconstruction, or structural alteration of such building
shall have been completed.
   (D)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building Commissioner and copies shall be furnished upon request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land
affected.
   (E)   No building permit shall be issued for excavation for or the erection,
reconstruction, or structural alteration of any building, before application
has been made for a certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 70-411) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
SPECIAL USES
§ 154.275 PERMITS FOR SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses or structural alterations thereto, which are
classified as special uses, may be permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals, in
accordance with the procedure specified herein:
      (1)   Airport or aircraft landing field;
      (2)   Amusement park;
      (3)   Baseball park;
      (4)   Cemetery or crematory;
      (5)   Country club or golf course;
      (6)   Fire station;
      (7)   Golf driving range or golf course;
      (8)   Hospital;
      (9)   Motel, tourist lodge, or bed and breakfast operation;
      (10)   Outdoor theater;
      (11)   Penal or correctional institution;
      (12)   Philanthropic or charitable institution;
      (13)   Radio or television transmitting tower;
      (14)   Sanitary fill or refuse dump;
      (15)   Sewage disposal or garbage disposal; and
      (16)   Trailer or public camp.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a special use by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, it shall be referred to the town’s Plan Commission for
investigation as to the manner in which the proposed location and character of
the special use will affect the master plan of the town. The town’s Plan
Commission shall report the results of its study of the proposal to the Board
of Zoning Appeals, and if the report is favorable to the proposal, the Board of
Zoning Appeals, may, after public notice and hearing according to law, grant
the permit, including the imposition of conditions of use, which the Board deem
essential to ensure that the special use is consistent with the spirit,
purpose, and intent of this chapter, will not substantially and permanently
injure the appropriate use of neighboring property, and will substantially
serve the public convenience and welfare.
   (C)   The following uses may be permitted in the I Industrial District only
in accordance with the procedure specified in division (B) above, and the
inclusion of a report by the town’s Health Officer or the State Board of Health
and the State Fire Marshal that uses applied for will not be injurious to the
public health or safety:
      (1)   Acid manufacture;
      (2)   Arsenal;
      (3)   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris manufacture;
      (4)   Distillation of bones, coal, or wood;
      (5)   Explosive manufacture or storage;
      (6)   Incineration or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal or
refuse, except for municipal purposes;
      (7)   Packing plants;
      (8)   Slag, stone, cinder, or coal crushing or pulverizing; and
      (9)   Any other use which may, under some circumstances be injurious to
public health or safety, but which may, with adequate safeguards, be designed
so as not to be injurious in such manner.
(Prior Code, § 70-431) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.276 WHERE PERMITTED; VEHICLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Contingent uses, as listed herein, are permitted in the district
indicated below.
   (B)   Each use shall provide on the lot, or within 300 feet thereof on a
site approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, parking space (open or enclosed)
as follows:
Contingent Use Locations Permitted Parking Spaces Required
Contingent Use                Locations Permitted Parking Spaces Required
Bed/breakfast operations and  MF, LB, GB          1 for each 3 occupants
lodginghouses
Bulletin board for a church   All
or public building
Church or temple              All                 1 for each 6 seats in main
                                                  auditorium
College or university         All                 1 for each 3 students or
                                                  staff
Community center              All                 1 for each 6 seats
Farm, vegetable, or flower
garden, or plant nursery, and All
general agricultural
operations
Home occupation               All                 1 additional
Lodge or private club (which                      1 for each 125 square feet of
is of a noncommercial         LB, GB              ground floor area
character)
Mortuary                      LB, GB              1 for each 6 seats in chapel
Municipal or governmental     All                 1 for each 125 square feet of
building                                          ground floor area
Nursing home or homes for the MF, LB, GB          1 for each 7 persons
aged
Professional office in
residence of practicing       SF, TF, MF          2 additional
professionals
Public library or museum      All                 1 for each 125 square feet of
                                                  ground floor area
Public park or public         All
recreational facility
Public utilities building or
right-of-way, including
purposes essential to         All                 1 for each 3 employees in the
utilities operation, but not                      building
including commercial or
industrial structures
Railroad right-of-way,
including purposes essential
to railroad operation, but
not including railroad yards, All
shops, stations, engine
storage, commercial or
industrial structure or uses
                                                  1 for each 3 members of the
School, public or parochial   All                 staff plus 1 for each 8 seats
                                                  in auditorium.
Temporary sign, pertaining to
lease, hire, or sale of a     All
building or premises
 
(Prior Code, § 70-432) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.277 PERMITS FOR PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   In order to meet requirements for vehicle parking space, where such space is
not available on the lot occupied by a building, as specified in §
154.276, the Board of Zoning Appeals may after receipt of a favorable report
from the town’s Plan Commission on the proposal, and after public notice and
hearing, grant a permit for the establishment of a parking lot in an SF-1 or
SF-2 Residential District, provided that the entire area of the parking lot is
within 300 feet of an LB, GB, or I District or, in the case of a church or
other place of congregation in an SF-1 or SF-2 Residential District,
immediately adjacent to such church or other place of congregation, and
provided further that:
   (A)   There shall be no sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling, or
servicing of any kind on said parking lot;
   (B)   Entrances and exits shall be approved as to location by the town’s
Plan Commission;
   (C)   No parking shall be permitted nearer than two feet from the front or
side lot line;
   (D)   Except for otherwise approved entrances and exits, a curb or rail not
more than two feet in height and not less than eight inches in height, shall be
erected so as to conform with the required front lot line and may be required
along boundaries of the parking lots determined by the town’s Plan Commission
for the protection of adjoining residentially zoned or used property;
   (E)   The lot shall be surfaced with a dustproof or hard surface meeting the
standard specifications of the town;
   (F)   No advertising signs shall be erected upon such lot, except not more
than one sign on each street side to indicate the operator and purpose of the
lot. Such sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in area and shall not extend
more than ten feet in overall height above the ground level;
   (G)   Lighting facilities, if provided, shall be so arranged as to be
reflected away from property residentially zoned or used; and
   (H)   If at any time after the issuance of the required permits any of the
provisions of this section are not complied with, the permits shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 70-433) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.290 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this chapter shall be in conformance with the provisions
of I.C. 36-7-4-601 through 36-7-4-611 and all acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 70-453) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
DEVELOPMENT (SITE) PLAN
§ 154.305 WHEN REQUIRED AND PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW.
   A development plan, including a preliminary and final site plan, shall be
required for all multiple-family and nonresidential projects prior to the
issuance of a building permit. The purpose of the development plan and site
plans is to allow the Building Commissioner to determine if the proposed
development conforms to the requirements of this chapter. The review of
preliminary and final site plans will be carried out by the Building
Commissioner and, if required, referred for final review and/or interpretation
to the Plan Commission. A minimum of three copies of all development plans
shall be submitted to the Building Commissioner for review purposes.
(Prior Code, § 70-473) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.306 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Preliminary plan review. An applicant shall submit to the Building
Commissioner a sketch of the proposed project for a preliminary review. The
requirements for this sketch are minimal but should show approximate scale and
sufficient information concerning the size and dimensions of the property
proposed for development, the location of buildings, driveways, and other
physical features proposed for development on the property, proposed uses of
buildings and grounds, access to streets (or roads), and any other information
necessary for the Building Commissioner to determine if the proposal meets the
requirements of this chapter. After reviewing the sketch plan with the
applicant, the Building Commissioner shall suggest any changes in the proposal
deemed necessary in order to comply with the provisions of this chapter and, if
applicable, the subdivision regulations in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Final plan review. The applicant, upon completion of the review
required in division (A) above, shall prepare and submit proper plans of the
project to the Building Commissioner. Development plans shall be drawn to scale
and shall show:
      (1)   Location of main and accessory buildings;
      (2)   Location of yards, driveways, sidewalks, parking areas, and other
site improvements;
      (3)   Proposed water, sewer, and storm drainage facilities;
      (4)   Surrounding streets and nearby buildings; and
      (5)   Proposed building plans.
(Prior Code, § 70-474) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.307 APPROVAL OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall review the plan and determine if the
plan submitted conforms to the terms of this chapter and, if applicable, the
subdivision regulations in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances. If the Building Commissioner finds the
plan is in conformance with the terms of this chapter and the subdivision
regulations in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances, the Building Commissioner shall approve
the plan by affixing the date and signature on each copy of the drawing
submitted. The Building Commissioner shall attach the other two copies to the
report to the Plan Commission with a report of findings concerning each
approval issued. Should a plan not conform to the provisions of this chapter
and the subdivision regulations in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances, the Building Commissioner shall
schedule a review by the Plan Commission. Plan Commission findings and comments
shall be transmitted to the applicant with the statement of approval or
rejection.
   (B)   After approval of the site plan by the Building Commissioner and Plan
Commission, one copy of the plan containing signatures indicating approval by
the Building Commissioner and Plan Commission shall be retained as a permanent
file copy and the other copy shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 70-475) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
AVAILABILITY FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION
§ 154.320 DUTY OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby directed to keep on file the Zone
Map referred to in §
154.016, for public inspection during all regular office hours of the said
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70-495) (Ord. 98.1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
thereof, or who shall build, reconstruct, or structurally alter any building in
violation of any detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder
shall, for each and every violation or noncompliance, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount determined by the
Circuit Court.
   (B)   (1)   Temporary signs. If any temporary sign violation is not
corrected within three days after notification by the Building Commissioner,
then a fine shall be assessed to the property owner and/or political candidate
pursuant to the schedule established by the Town Council. Each day the
violation continues thereafter shall constitute an additional violation.
      (2)   Permanent signs. If any permanent sign violation is not corrected
within 30 days after notification by the Building Commissioner, then a fine
shall be assessed to the property owner and/or tenant pursuant to the schedule
established by the Town Council. Each day the violation continues thereafter
shall constitute an additional violation.
(Prior Code, § 70-77)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FUNDS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS; BOUNDARIES
      
III.   REZONINGS
      
IV.   RENAMINGS
      
V.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2006-11       6-5-2006    Establishes Public Police Donation Fund
2010-03       7-19-2010   Re-establishes Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                          tax rate at $0.05 per $100 of assessed value
2017-02       3-20-2017   Establishes Cumulative Capital Development Fund
7 of 2017     9-18-2017   Establishes Cumulative Railroad Revenue Fund
2 of 2018     1-15-2018   Establishes K-9 Acquisition, Training, and Equipment
                          Fund
2018-09       7-2-2018    Establishes Water Construction Fund and Sewer
                          Construction Fund
2020-03       10-19-2020  Establishes Coronavirus Relief Fund
2021-01       3-1-2021    Establishes Recreational Equipment Fund
4 of 2021     5-3-2021    Establishes Town Redevelopment Fund
2023-01       1-3-2023    Establishes Unrestricted Opioid Settlement Fund
2023-02       1-3-2023    Establishes Restricted Opioid Settlement Fund
Res. 2023-02  5-15-2023   Establishes Cumulative Capital Development Fund
2023-11       11-6-2023   Establishes FEMA Grant Fund
2024-04       7-15-2024   Establishes AED Fund
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS; BOUNDARIES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2015-07    7-20-2015   Establishes Town Council Wards
                         
 
TABLE III: REZONINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2012-08       12-3-2012    
                        Grants zoning variance to Osborne Realty
2017-03       4-3-2017    Grants zoning variance to West Talmer NJ, LLC
                         
 
TABLE IV: RENAMINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
08-05         3-3-2008    Renames platted street: Leslie Street becomes
                          Campbell Drive
                         
 
TABLE V: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
5 of  6-4-   Vacates a public alley and extinguishes the town’s claim to an unimproved
2018  2018   publicly unused alley
2021- 4-19-  Vacates a public alley and extinguishes the town’s claim to an unimproved
03    2021   publicly unused causeway
2024- 1-15-  Vacates a public alley and extinguishes the town’s claim to an unimproved
02    2024   publicly unused causeway
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                 Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
3-13-9-4                   31.03
4-21.5-3                   52.41,
                           52.60
5-3-1-4                    Adopting Ordinance
5-4-1                      31.23
5-11-1-27(e)               37.36
5-11-1-27(g)               37.38
5-11-1-27(j)               37.37
5-11-1-27(l)               37.37
5-11-10                    31.20
5-13-6-1(d)                37.01
                           30.45,
5-14-1.5-5                 30.51,
                           110.11
5-14-3 et seq.             110.11
5-16-9-5                   70.17
7.1-5-1-3                  130.01
7.1-5-1-6                  130.01
8-1-32.3-15(c)(1)          50.02
9-12-7-7                   70.17
9-18-2-7                   70.17
9-18-2-21                  70.17
9-18-2-26                  70.17
9-18-2-27                  70.17
9-18.5                     94.20
9-19-3-9                   70.17
9-19-4-1                   70.17
9-19-6-3                   70.17
9-19-6-4                   70.17
9-19-6-7                   70.17
9-19-6-13                  70.17
9-19-6-14                  70.17
9-19-6-18                  70.17
9-19-8-2                   70.17
9-19-12-1                  70.17
9-19-19-2                  70.17
9-19-19-3                  70.17
9-19-19-4                  70.17
9-19-19-6                  70.17
9-20-9-8                   70.17
9-21-1-3.3(a)              72.99
9-21-3-7                   70.17
9-21-3-8                   70.17
9-21-4-1 et seq.           70.15
9-21-4-16                  70.17
9-21-4-18                  70.17
9-21-5-3                   70.17
9-21-5-51                  70.17
9-21-5-6                   71.20
9-21-5.1-5.5 et seq.       71.20
9-21-6-1                   70.17
9-21-7-1                   70.17
9-21-7-2                   70.17
9-21-7-3                   70.17
9-21-8-1                   70.17
9-21-8-2                   70.17
9-21-8-5                   70.17
9-21-8-6                   70.17
9-21-8-7                   70.17
9-21-8-9                   70.17
9-21-8-14                  70.17
9-21-8-22                  70.17
9-21-8-23                  70.17
9-21-8-24                  70.17
9-21-8-27                  70.17
9-21-8-29                  70.17
9-21-8-31                  70.17
9-21-8-32                  70.17
9-21-8-35                  70.17
9-21-8-37                  70.17
9-21-8-39                  70.17
9-21-8-41                  70.17
9-21-9                     72.43
9-21-10-1                  70.17
9-21-11-1 et seq.          72.02
9-21-11-12                 70.17
9-21-11-13                 70.17
9-21-12-1                  70.17
9-21-12-5                  70.17
9-21-13-2                  70.17
9-21-16-5.5                70.17
9-21-17-16                 70.17
9-22-1-1 et seq.           94.20
9-22-1-2                   10.05
9-22-1-3                   94.20
9-24-1-5                   70.17
9-24-7-4                   70.17
9-24-13-3                  70.17
9-25-2-3                   72.42
9-26-2-1 et seq.           70.16
10-14-3-1 et seq           32.056
13-17-12-1                 91.02
14-16-1-8                  70.17
14-16-1-09                 70.17
14-16-1-11                 70.17
14-16-1-20                 70.17
14-16-1-20 (b)             70.17
14-16-1-21(a)              70.17
14-16-1-23(a)(8)           70.17
14-16-1-23 (a)(12)         70.17
14-16-1-27                 70.17
15-17-6                    90.23
16-42-11-1.1               112.04
20-9.1-5-11                70.17
20-9.1-5-14                70.17
20-9.1-5-15                70.17
22-9-1-4 et seq.           92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           92.01
22-9.5-2-2                 92.02
22-9.5-2-3                 92.02
22-9.5-2-4                 92.02
22-9.5-2-8                 92.02
22-9.5-2-9                 92.02
22-9.5-2-11                92.02
22-9.5-2-13                92.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.           92.10
22-9.5-3                   92.03
22-9.5-4-8                 92.11
22-9.5-5                   92.02
22-9.5-5-1                 92.03
22-9.5-6                   92.02,
                           92.11
22-13-2-1 et seq.          150.02
23-14-65                   95.07
25-14                      130.18
25-22.5                    130.18
33-36-1 et seq.            33.01
35-45-3-2                  70.17
35-46-3                    90.35
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)         52.05
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-5-4                   150.02
36-1-12-1 et seq.          36.01
36-1-12-2                  37.15
36-5-2-2                   10.15,
                           30.01
36-5-2-3                   31.06
36-5-2-4.2                 31.02
36-5-2-5                   31.05
36-5-2-7                   30.02
36-5-2-8                   30.26,
                           31.20
36-5-2-9                   30.01
36-5-2-9.2                 30.03
36-5-2-9.4                 30.22
36-5-2-9.8                 30.22
36-5-2-10                  30.28,
                           30.29
36-5-2-10.2                30.27
36-5-3-2                   30.06
36-5-4-12                  31.20
36-5-5-5                   31.23
36-5-5-8                   31.23
36-5-6-2                   31.20
36-5-6-3                   31.20
36-5-6-4                   31.20
36-5-6-6                   31.20
36-5-7-2                   31.21
36-5-7-4                   31.21,
                           35.03
36-5-7-6                   31.21,
                           35.04
                           32.070,
36-7-4                     32.072,
                           32.073
36-7-4-601 through 611     154.290
36-7-4-901 et seq.         154.030
36-7-9 et seq.             150.46
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 150.32
                           150.30,
36-7-9-2                   150.33,
                           150.49,
                           150.52
36-7-9-3                   150.31
36-7-9-4                   150.30,
                           150.50
36-7-9-7                   150.52
36-7-9-14                  150.53
36-7-9-25                  150.52
36-7-9-27                  150.99
36-7-10.l-3(c)             94.25
36-7-10.1-4                94.25
36-7-12-4                  32.001
36-7-12-6                  32.015
36-7-12-9                  32.016
36-7-12-10                 32.017
36-7-12-12                 32.019
36-7-12-13                 32.020
36-7-12-15                 32.018
36-7-12-16                 32.021
36-7-12-18.5               32.002
36-7-12-27.5               32.003
36-8-17-9                  35.22
36-10-3-4                  32.035,
                           32.036
36-10-3-5                  32.037
36-10-3-8                  32.038,
                           32.039
36-10-3-10                 32.041
36-10-3-11                 32.040
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
1-2        10.05
1-13       10.99
2-19       31.01
2-20       31.02
2-21       31.03
2-22       31.04
2-23       31.05
2-24       31.06
2-25       30.01
2-26       30.02
2-27       30.03
2-28       30.04
2-29       30.05
2-30       30.06
2-31       30.07
2-74       31.20
2-75       31.20
2-76       31.20
2-96       31.21
2-97       31.21
2-98       31.21
2-99       31.21
2-127      31.22
2-128      31.22
2-129      31.22
2-181      32.001
2-182      32.002
2-183      32.003
2-201      32.015
2-202      32.016
2-203      32.017
2-204      32.018
2-205      32.019
2-206      32.020
2-207      32.021
2-220      32.035
2-221      32.036
2-222      32.037
2-223      32.038
2-224      32.039
2-225      32.040
2-226      32.041
2-246      32.055
2-247      32.056
2-248      32.057
2-249      32.058
2-277      36.01
2-305      30.20
2-306      30.21
2-307      30.22
2-308      30.23
2-309      30.24
2-310      30.25
2-311      30.26
2-312      30.27
2-313      30.28
2-314      30.29
2-315      30.30
2-316      30.31
2-336      30.45
2-337      30.46
2-338      30.47
2-339      30.48
2-340      30.49
2-341      30.50
2-342      30.51
10-1       150.01
10-2       150.02
10-23      150.15
10-24      150.16
10-25      150.17
10-54      150.30
10-55      150.99
10-56      150.31
10-57      150.32
10-58      150.33
10-90      152.01
10-91      152.02
10-92      152.03
10-93      152.04
10-94      152.05
10-95      152.06
10-96      152.07
10-97      152.08
10-98      152.09
10-99      152.10
10-100     152.11
10-101     152.12
10-102     152.13
10-103     152.14
10-104     152.15
10-105     152.16
10-124     150.03
10-125     150.03
18-1       34.01
18-2       34.01
22-41      94.99
22-42      94.20,
           33.07
22-61      91.02
22-81      94.21
22-100     94.22
22-101     94.22
22-102     94.99
26-20      35.15
26-21      35.16
26-22      35.17
26-23      35.18
26-24      35.19
26-25      35.20
26-26      35.21
26-27      35.22
26-28      35.23
30-1       91.15
30-2       91.16
34-1       35.01
34-2       35.02
34-23      35.03
34-24      35.04
38-19      130.01
           33.07,
38-39      130.30,
           130.31,
           130.32
38-60      130.46
39-59      130.45
42-19      110.01
42-21      110.02
42-22      110.03
42-23      110.04
42-24      110.05
42-25      110.05
42-26      110.05
42-27      110.06
42-28      110.07
42-29      110.08
42-30      110.09
42-31      110.10
42-32      110.11
42-33      110.12
42-34      110.13
42-35      110.13
42-36      110.13
42-37      110.14
42-38      110.15
42-39      110.15
42-67      110.15
42-68      110.99
50-19      94.23
50-45      94.24
50-46      94.24
50-47      94.24
50-48      94.24
54-20      93.99
54-21      93.01
54-22      93.02
54-23      93.03
54-24      93.04
54-25      93.05
54-26      93.06
54-27      93.07
54-59      93.99
54-60      93.20
54-61      93.21
54-62      93.22
54-63      93.23
54-64      93.24
54-65      93.25
54-66      93.26
54-91      93.40
54-92      93.41
54-93      93.42
54-94      93.43
54-95      93.44
54-96      93.45
54-97      93.46
62-1       70.99
62-2       70.01
62-3       70.02
62-4       70.03
62-5       70.04
62-60      70.15
62-79      70.16
62-105     71.05
62-155     72.99
62-156     72.99
62-181     72.99
62-182     72.01
62-183     72.02
62-184     72.03
62-185     72.04
62-186     72.05
62-187     72.06
62-188     72.07
62-189     72.08
62-190     72.09
62-191     72.10
62-192     72.11
66-1       50.01
66-19      51.01
66-20      51.02
66-22      51.03
66-23      51.04
66-24      51.05
66-81      51.21
66-82      51.20
68-19      151.01
68-20      151.02,
           151.99
68-41      151.03
68-61      151.15
68-62      151.16
68-63      151.17
68-83      151.18
68-84      151.19
68-85      151.20
68-86      151.21
68-106     151.35
68-107     151.36
68-108     151.37
68-109     151.38
68-110     151.39
68-130     151.50
68-131     151.51
68-132     151.52
68-133     151.53
68-134     151.54
68-135     151.55
68-136     151.56
68-137     151.57
68-138     151.58
68-139     151.59
68-140     151.60
70-1       154.001
70-2       154.002
70-3       154.003
70-27      154.015
70-28      154.016
70-29      154.017
70-30      154.018
70-49      154.030
70-50      154.031
70-51      154.032
70-52      154.033
70-53      154.034
70-54      154.035
70-55      154.036
70-56      154.037
70-76      154.038
70-116     154.050
70-117     154.051
70-118     154.052
70-119     154.053
70-120     154.054
70-121     154.055
70-122     154.056
70-123     154.057
70-124     154.058
70-125     154.059
70-146     154.070
70-147     154.071
70-148     154.072
70-149     154.073
70-150     154.074
70-151     154.075
70-152     154.076
70-153     154.077
70-154     154.078
70-155     154.079
70-176     154.090
70-177     154.091
70-178     154.092
70-179     154.093
70-180     154.094
70-181     154.095
70-182     154.096
70-183     154.097
70-184     154.098
70-185     154.099
70-206     154.110
70-207     154.111
70-208     154.112
70-209     154.113
70-210     154.114
70-211     154.115
70-212     154.116
70-213     154.117
70-214     154.118
70-215     154.119
70-236     154.130
70-237     154.131
70-238     154.132
70-239     154.133
70-240     154.134
70-241     154.135
70-242     154.136
70-243     154.137
70-244     154.138
70-264     154.150
70-265     154.151
70-266     154.152
70-267     154.153
70-268     154.154
70-269     154.155
70-270     154.156
70-271     154.157
70-272     154.158
70-292     154.170
70-293     154.171
70-294     154.172
70-295     154.173
70-296     154.174
70-297     154.175
70-298     154.176
70-299     154.177
70-300     154.178
70-320     154.190
70-321     154.191
70-322     154.192
70-323     154.193
70-324     154.194
70-325     154.195
70-326     154.196
70-346     154.210
70-347     154.211
70-348     154.212
70-349     154.213
70-350     154.214
70-351     154.215
70-352     154.216
70-353     154.217
70-354     154.218
70-355     154.219
70-356     154.220
70-357     154.221
70-358     154.222
70-359     154.223
70-360     154.224
70-361     154.225
70-362     154.226
70-363     154.227
70-383     154.240
70-384     154.241
70-385     154.242
70-386     154.243
70-387     154.244
70-388     154.245
70-389     154.246
70-409     154.260
70-410     154.261
70-411     154.262
70-431     154.275
70-432     154.276
70-433     154.277
70-453     154.290
70-473     154.305
70-474     154.306
70-475     154.307
70-495     154.320
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Passed Date Code Section
-        12-17-1956  51.02
-        11-24-1978  36.01
2015-07  7-20-2015   TSO Table II
2016-03  3-21-2016   37.05
2018-08  12-27-2018  31.24
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
2         11-20-1961  51.20
-         9-16-1963   32.055-
                      32.058
-         9-16-1963   34.01
110       8-20-1973   130.01
                      32.001-
-         1-19-1976   32.003,
                      32.015-
                      32.021
81-A      2-16-1981   Ch. 74, Schd. II
                      150.30-
-         7-6-1981    150.33,
                      150.99
86-3      5-21-1986   32.035-
                      32.041
2-1991    10-7-1991   51.01
5-1992    5-8-1992    31.22
4-1992    6-17-1992   51.01
10-1992   9-8-1992    94.20,
                      94.99
10, 1007  8-11-1997   52.55
10, 1997  8-11-1997   52.56-
                      52.60
                      154.001-
                      154.003,
                      154.015-
                      154.018,
                      154.030-
                      154.038,
                      154.050-
                      154.059,
                      154.070-
                      154.079,
                      154.090-
                      154.099,
                      154.110-
                      154.119,
                      154.130-
                      154.138,
                      154.150-
98.1      7-20-1998   154.158,
                      154.170-
                      154.178,
                      154.190-
                      154.196,
                      154.210-
                      154.227,
                      154.240-
                      154.246,
                      154.260-
                      154.262,
                      154.275-
                      154.277,
                      154.290,
                      154.305-
                      154.307,
                      154.320,
                      154.999
4, 2001   5-14-2001   52.61
2004-03   5-17-2004   90.23,
                      90.40
7, 2002   8-12-2002   52.56
2004-1    3-1-2004    50.01
2004-02   5-3-2004    33.07,
                      93.40
2005-03   7-7-2005    150.03
2006-02   3-20-2006   51.03
                      33.07,
2006-03   4-17-2006   110.15,
                      110.99
3, 2006   5- -2006    52.56,
                      52.57
                      33.07,
                      110.03-
2006-04   5-1-2006    110.06,
                      110.12,
                      110.15
2006-08   5-1-2006    94.22,
                      94.99
                      33.07,
2006-06   6-5-2006    51.05,
                      94.24
                      33.07,
2006-09   6-5-2006    70.01-
                      70.04,
                      70.99
2006-11   6-5-2006    TSO Table I
08-05     3-3-2008    TSO Table IV
2008-08   5-5-2008    Ch. 73, Schd. II
2008-09   6-16-2008   37.01
2008-10   7-7-2008    37.04
2008-14   8-18-2008   34.02
2008-11   9-15-2008   Ch. 73, Schd. II
2008-13   10-6-2008   91.01
2008-15   10-20-2008  Ch. 74, Schd. I
2008-16   10-20-2008  71.04
2008-17   10-20-2008  Ch. 74, Schd. I
                      72.25-
2009-02   5-18-2009   72.28,
                      33.07
2009-03   5-18-2009   33.01-
                      33.06
                      71.01-
2009-04   5-18-2009   71.04,
                      71.20-
                      71.24
2009-05   5-18-2009   70.17
2009-07   10-5-2009   37.02
                      52.01-
                      52.05,
                      52.15-
                      52.23,
2009-09   11-16-2009  52.40-
                      52.42,
                      52.55-
                      52.61,
                      52.99
2009-10   12-21-2009  37.03
2010-02   5-17-2010   52.24
2010-03   7-19-2010   TSO Table I
                      36.15-
2010-03   9-4-2010    36.19,
                      36.99
2010-04   12-6-2010   36.02
2010-05   12-6-2010   52.25
                      130.15-
2010-06   3-7-2011    130.18,
                      130.99
2011-02   5-16-2011   37.15-
                      37.20
2011-03   7-18-2011   51.22
2012-07   12-3-2012   31.03
2012-08   12-3-2012   TSO Table III
                      95.01-
                      95.07,
2013-02   2-4-2013    95.20-
                      95.29,
                      95.99
                      33.07,
2013-04   7-15-2013   112.01-
                      112.04,
                      112.99
2013-05   7-15-2013   94.25
2014-02   1-20-2014   30.23
                      111.01-
2014-03   6-2-2014    111.04,
                      111.99
                      71.23,
2015-03   4-20-2015   71.99,
                      Ch. 73, Sched. I
                      92.01-
2016-02   3-7-2016    92.11,
                      92.99
2016-03   3-21-2016   36.30-
                      36.36
2016-04   3-21-2016   31.20
                      72.40-
2016-06   7-18-2016   72.44,
                      90.01
2016-07   12-19-2016  37.35-
                      37.41
2017-02   3-20-2017   TSO Table I
2017-03   4-3-2017    TSO Table III
7 of 2017 9-18-2017   TSO Table I
                      90.01-
                      90.02,
                      90.15-
8 of 2017 11-20-2017  90.22,
                      90.35-
                      90.39,
                      90.99
2 of 2018 1-15-2018   TSO Table I
                      51.35-
3 of 2018 2-5-2018    51.36,
                      51.40
5 of 2018 6-4-2018    TSO Table V
                      33.07,
2018-06   7-2-2018    37.57-
                      37.60
2018-09   7-2-2018    TSO Table I
2018-15   11-19-2018  51.06-
                      51.08
2018-16   11-19-2018  52.62-
                      52.64
2018-19   12-26-2018  50.15-
                      50.18
                      94.01-
2019-01   5-6-2019    94.06,
                      94.99
2020-02   4-20-2020   32.070-
                      32.073
2020-03   10-19-2020  TSO Table I
2021-01   3-1-2021    TSO Table I
2021-03   4-19-2021   TSO Table V
4 of 2021 5-3-2021    TSO Table I
2021-06   6-7-2021    51.21
2022-03   9-19-2022   52.62-
                      52.64
2022-04   9-19-2022   51.06-
                      51.08
                      150.45-
2022-05   11-21-2022  150.58,
                      150.99
                      33.07,
2022-06   12-5-2022   37.57-
                      37.60
2023-01   1-3-2023    TSO Table I
2023-02   1-3-2023    TSO Table I
2023-04   5-1-2023    Adopting Ordinance
2023-05   5-15-2023   51.06–
                      51.08
2023-06   5-15-2023   52.62–
                      52.64
2023-07   6-5-2023    TSO Table V
2023-08   8-21-2023   Ch. 73, Sched. II
2023-11   11-6-2023   TSO Table I
2024-01   1-15-2024   31.23
2024-02   1-15-2024   TSO Table V
2024-04   7-15-2024   TSO Table I
                     
 
