TOWN OF NORTH SALEM, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-9, passed 1-5-23; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2022 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
NORTH SALEM, INDIANA
TOWN OFFICIALS
 
Becky Fancher   Town Council President
Jimmy Roberts   Town Council Vice President
William Compton Town Council Member
Beth Russell    Clerk-Treasurer
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 2012-3
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF NORTH SALEM REVISING,
REARRANGING, COMPILING AND RE-CODIFYING THE ORDINANCES OF THE CIVIL TOWN OF
NORTH SALEM, INDIANA IN ACCORDANCE WITH I.C. 36-1-5-3
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Town of North Salem, Hendricks County, Indiana, that:
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of North Salem has determined that a
recodification of the Town’s Ordinances has not been done since 1985; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of North Salem after having studied
the matter and the enforcement of existing laws and regulations, has determined
that a recodification is necessary to improve Code enforcement and to make the
Code more “user friendly” for the citizens of the town; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of North Salem after having reviewed
this matter, contracted with American Legal Publishing of Cincinnati, Ohio, to
prepare a recodification of the Town’s Code of Ordinances according to the
authority granted at I.C. 36-1-5-3.
   NOW THEREFORE, by the powers vested in the Town Council of the Town of North
Salem, Hendricks County, Indiana, it is hereby ORDAINED AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   ADOPTION
The bound volume of the Code of Ordinance which encompasses all ordinances
passed and which have not been repealed by the North Salem Town Council through
and including the 31st day of December, 2011, and which was published by
American Legal Publishing of Cincinnati, Ohio, and presented to the Town
Council of the Town of North Salem on June 7, 2012, shall be and the same is
hereby approved and adopted by the Town Council as the official Code of
Ordinances for the Town of North Salem from this date forward.
Section 2.   PUBLIC ACCESS
The Clerk Treasurer shall maintain sufficient copies of the Code of Ordinances
in the Town Hall such that the citizens of the Town may have public access to
it during normal Office Hours.
Section 3.   PASSAGE ON FIRST READING
The Town Council, having determined that it is in the best interests of the
Town to adopt and pass this Ordinance on one reading so as to give further
legal affect to the Code of Ordinances the Town Council hereby directs that
this Ordinance is passed and adopted by unanimous consent of those present
representing a quorum as provided by I.C. 36-5-2-9.8.
SAID ORDINANCE IS HEREBY PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 5th day of July, 2012, and
shall become effective after publication two times as by law provided.
                     Mike Selch
                     Town Council President
                     Mike Russell
                     Town Council Vice-President
                     Rebecca Compton
                     Town Council Member
                     (Constituting a majority of the members of the Town
Council of the Town of North Salem, Indiana)
ATTEST:
Beth Russell
Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of
North Salem, Indiana
ORDINANCE 2013-3
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF NORTH SALEM ENACTING AND
ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CIVIL TOWN OF NORTH
SALEM, INDIANA AND DELCARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2013 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the code of ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CIVIL TOWN OF NORTH SALEM, INDIANA;
Section 1.   That the 2013 S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
SAID ORDINANCE IS HEREBY PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 6th day of June, 2013, and
shall become effective after publication two times as by law provided.
                     Mike Selch
                     Town Council President
                     Rebecca Compton
                     Town Council Member
                     (Constituting a majority of the members of the Town
Council of the Town of North Salem, Indiana)
ATTEST:
Beth Russell
Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of
North Salem, Indiana
ORDINANCE 2014-7
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF NORTH SALEM ENACTING AND
ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CIVIL TOWN OF NORTH
SALEM, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2014 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the code of ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CIVIL TOWN OF NORTH SALEM, INDIANA;
Section 1.   That the 2014 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
SAID ORDINANCE IS HEREBY PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 3rd day of July, 2014, and
shall become effective after publication two times as by law provided.
                     Michael Selch
                     President
                     Rebecca Compton
                     Vice President
                     Mike Russell
                     Member
                     (Constituting a majority of the members of the Town
Council of the Town of North Salem, Indiana)
ATTEST:
Beth Russell
Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of
North Salem, Indiana
ORDINANCE 2018-2
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF NORTH SALEM
   ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE
   CIVIL TOWN OF NORTH SALEM, INDIANA
   AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the code of ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CIVIL TOWN OF NORTH SALEM, INDIANA;
Section 1.   That the 2017 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
SAID ORDINANCE IS HEREBY PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 1st day of March, 2018, and
shall become effective after publication two times as by law provided.
                     Rebecca Compton
                     President
                     Mike Russell
                     Vice President
                     Jimmy Roberts
                     Member
                     (Constituting a majority of the members of the Town
Council of the Town of North Salem, Indiana)
ATTEST:
Beth Russell
Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of
North Salem, Indiana
ORDINANCE 2022-3
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF NORTH SALEM
   ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CIVIL
TOWN OF NORTH SALEM, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 S-5 supplement AND the 2022 S-6 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the Political Subdivision, which supplement contains all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the code of Ordinances of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the code of ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CIVIL TOWN OF NORTH SALEM, INDIANA;
Section 1.   That both the 2020 S-5 and the 2022 S-6 supplements to the Code of
Ordinances of the Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the
same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
SAID ORDINANCE IS HEREBY PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the
Political Subdivision on this 17th day of February, 2022.
                     /s/
                     President
                                             
                     Vice President
                     /s/
                     Member
                     (Constituting a majority of the members of the Town
Council of the Town of North Salem, Indiana)
ATTEST:
Beth Russell
Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of North Salem, Indiana
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town of North
Salem Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of North Salem.
      COUNTY. Hendricks County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of North Salem, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town, the previous code section number shall be indicated in
the history by “     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TAX, REVENUES AND FINANCE
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
34.   CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
      
35.   CIVIL DEFENSE; EMERGENCIES
      
36.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Administrative Policy
   
30.01   Powers and duties of town officials
   
30.02   Official agency
   
30.03   General Fund as presumptive depository
   
30.04   Non-included official entities or funds
Boundaries and Jurisdiction
   
30.15   General boundary determination
   
30.16   Certain territory annexed
   
30.17   Incorporation by reference of any other provisions annexing or dis-
annexing territory
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY
§ 30.01 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officers, officials, boards, commissions or other official
entities of the town government shall be construed to have:
      (1)   All powers or duties prescribed for or conferred on any particular
officer, official, board, commission or other official entity by statute;
      (2)   All powers or duties expressly prescribed or conferred thereon by a
provision of this code; and
      (3)   All powers or duties implied by the nature of and necessary or
dispensable to the proper and efficient fulfillment of their governmental or
corporate function or duties of office, including, but not necessarily limited
to, the power to prescribe administrative rules of procedures for the
governance of their respective offices, departments, agencies or functions to
the extent not inconsistent with nor preempted by a provision of this code or
statute, or by an applicable and mandatory state or federal administrative
regulation.
   (B)   To the extent provided by this section, the fact that a particular
power or duty is not expressly set forth in this code and conferred on an
officer, official, board, commission or other official entity does not of
itself imply that the power or duty does not exist or has been considerately
denied or withheld.
(1985 Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 30.02 OFFICIAL AGENCY.
   Any purely ministerial power or function vested in any officer, board,
commission or other entity by a provision of this code may be delegated to and
exercised or performed by a deputy or other authorized agent or representative
of the authority in whom the ministerial power or function is vested, except
that no person shall be permitted to receive or handle public funds or other
monies in the custody of the town, unless he or she is properly bonded or
expressly so authorized by law. The delegation of a ministerial power or
function does not relieve the principal authority in whom it is vested for
responsibility for proper and timely performance. Any power or function vested
in an officer, board, commission or other entity which involves the exercise of
official discretion shall be performed or exercised only by or under the
immediate supervision of the authority in whom it was vested, and it may not be
delegated unless a provision of this code or law expressly so permits.
(1985 Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 30.03 GENERAL FUND AS PRESUMPTIVE DEPOSITORY.
   All monies received by the town, irrespective of source or intended use,
shall accrue to and be deposited in the General Fund of the town unless the
nature, source or intended use of the monies is such that a provision of this
code, or of law, or of an applicable state or federal administrative regulation
specifies that they accrue to and be deposited in some other fund.
(1985 Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 30.04 NON-INCLUDED OFFICIAL ENTITIES OR FUNDS.
   (A)   This code is not necessarily comprehensive and all-inclusive with
respect to existing governmental officers, officials, other official entities
nor funds.
   (B)   The fact that any existing officer, official, other official entity or
fund is not created by or set forth by an expressed provision of this code does
not imply that the entity or fund does not lawfully exist nor that it is
intended to be terminated or abolished; and to the extent that any entity or
fund is lawfully extant at the time of the adoption and taking effect of this
code, the same shall continue in existence thereafter unless expressly
terminated or abolished by subsequent action of the Town Council or other
authority competently empowered.
(1985 Code, § 1-4-4)
BOUNDARIES AND JURISDICTION
§ 30.15 GENERAL BOUNDARY DETERMINATION.
   Except as hereinafter provided in this chapter, the boundaries of the town
shall be as determined and filed by plat in the office of the County Recorder
at the time of the town’s original incorporation.
(1985 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 30.16 CERTAIN TERRITORY ANNEXED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the town under I.C. 18-5-10-1 et seq.,
a certain territory contiguous to the present town limits shall be, and hereby
is, annexed into and made a part of the town, the contiguous territory
described as follows: a part of the west half of the northwest quarter of
Section 4, Township 16 North, Range 2 West, bounded as follows: commencing on
the west line of the half quarter in the center of county road; thence south on
the line 13 rods; thence east 18.5 rods; thence north 13 rods to the center of
the road; and thence west with the center of the road 18.5 rods to the place of
beginning, containing one and one-half acres, more or less; except what has
been granted to the state for highway purposes; also, a part of the west half
of the northwest quarter of Section 4, Township 16 North, Range 2 West, bounded
as follows: commencing on the west line of the half quarter in the center of
the county road and running thence south on the west line 13 rods to the
beginning point of this description; from the beginning point running thence
easterly 18.5 rods to a point; running thence south six and one-half feet to a
point; running thence easterly 17 rods and ten and one-sixth feet to a point;
running thence west to a point on the west line of the half quarter which is 24
feet south of the point of beginning; thence north 24 feet to the beginning
point of this description.
(1985 Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 1-1975, passed 7-7-1975)
§ 30.17 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF ANY OTHER PROVISIONS ANNEXING OR DIS-
ANNEXING TERRITORY.
   In the event that there have been any other ordinances which have heretofore
been enacted and taken effect annexing or dis-annexing any territory since the
town’s original boundaries were established as provided under §
30.15 above, those ordinances are hereby incorporated by reference into this
chapter and are saved from any general repeal. The fact that the provisions
from any such ordinances are not included and expressly set forth in this
chapter does not imply any intent to dis-annex previously annexed territory nor
to reincorporate any previously dis-annexed territory.
(1985 Code, § 2-1-3)
CHAPTER 31: TAX, REVENUES AND FINANCE
Section
   
31.01   Investment of civil town monies authorized
   
31.02   Investment of municipal utility monies authorized
   
31.03   Payment of regular or recurrent expenses authorized prior to claim
allowance
   
31.04   Special Deposit Fund created
   
31.05   Payroll Fund created
   
31.06   Promotional Fund created
   
31.07   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund (cigarette tax) created
   
31.08   Levy Excess Fund created
   
31.09   Rainy Day Fund created
   
31.10   LOIT Special Distribution Fund created
   
31.11   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
31.12   Capital assets policy
§ 31.01 INVESTMENT OF CIVIL TOWN MONIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may invest surplus monies of, or on deposit with,
the town and not required for immediate expenditure. Investments may be made in
any security or investment instrument authorized by I.C. 5-13-9-1 et seq., but
subject to any public depository distribution requirements as provided by I.C.
5-13, if applicable to the investment.
   (B)   Investment shall be made in instruments having sufficient liquidity to
permit the town to meet its expenditure requirements in a timely manner, and
shall not be made in any security maturing in more than one year from the date
of the investment, unless the Clerk-Treasurer determines on a reasonable basis
that all monies so invested are not likely to be required for a longer period
of time.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may sell or otherwise liquidate an investment if
the investment monies should prove to be needed to pay the expenses of the
town, in order to make a more advantageous investment, or to forestall
principal devaluation.
   (D)   Unless otherwise provided by law, applicable state or federal
administrative regulations, or town ordinance, investments shall be made from
total monies on deposit rather than by specific fund, and all earnings or
amounts of capital gain realized from the investment shall accrue to the
General Fund, and only the amount of original principal shall be returned to
the fund of origin.
   (E)   To the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing requirements of this
section, monies from different funds may be combined and put in a single
investment if a financial advantage to the town would result.
   (F)   When any investment is made in accordance with this section and
applicable laws, the Clerk-Treasurer shall not be held personally liable for
any loss of principal which may incidentally result from the making or
necessary sale or liquidation of the investment.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -)
§ 31.02 INVESTMENT OF MUNICIPAL UTILITY MONIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-13, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized to invest the surplus monies on deposit in any of the funds of the
municipally owned utilities, and to sell or liquidate such investments as
monies are required or for the purpose of reinvestment.
   (B)   Investments shall be made, and earnings or capital gains deposited, in
the same manner as prescribed for investment of other town monies, except that
any interest earnings attributable to invested monies from any utility bond
sinking fund shall accrue to and be deposited in the sinking fund rather than
in the town General Fund.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision, the Clerk-Treasurer for the
purposes of this section may issue a check on any utility fund, including a
sinking fund, to make or purchase the investment and to pay any associated
transaction fees or other necessary charges deriving from the making, purchase,
sale or liquidation of the investment.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -)
§ 31.03 PAYMENT OF REGULAR OR RECURRENT EXPENSES AUTHORIZED PRIOR TO CLAIM
ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Whereas the town incurs various periodic and regular or recurrent
expenses for which appropriations have been duly made, but which from time to
time fall due and payable prior to the Town Council’s next scheduled meeting
when claims are allowed, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to issue any
necessary warrant and proceed to make timely payment of the expenses in advance
of allowance whenever required.
   (B)   The following kinds of payments may be made in advance of allowance
under authority of this section:
      (1)   Salaries and wages of civil town or utility officers and employees;
      (2)   Utility service and fuel bills;
      (3)   Membership dues to organizations to which the town belongs;
      (4)   Subscription charges to periodical publications to which the town
subscribes;
      (5)   State or federal taxes or withholding remittances;
      (6)   Insurance premiums;
      (7)   Regular banking and financial institution service charges;
      (8)   Rental charges on any leased property, buildings or equipment;
      (9)   Interest or mature principal on outstanding civil town or utility
obligations;
      (10)   Required contributions to pension funds or benefit programs for
civil town or utility employees; and
      (11)   Any periodic payments required to be made under the provisions of
any contractual agreement previously approved and entered into by the Town
Council, unless a stipulation of the contract makes each payment conditional
upon the prior review and approval of the Town Council.
   (C)   When payments are made by the Clerk-Treasurer in advance of allowance
in accordance with this section, the subsequent allowance of the claim in the
amount of the advance payment shall be deemed a full ratification and
legalization of the action of the Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-4-16.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -)
§ 31.04 SPECIAL DEPOSIT FUND CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a separate non-reverting fund of the town to
be known as the “Special Deposit Fund”, into which shall be deposited those
monies collected, received or held by the town on a temporary or conditional
basis only.
   (B)   Monies which may be deposited in the Special Deposit Fund include the
following:
      (1)   Cash bonds or security deposits;
      (2)   Any conditional license or permit application fees (or portion
thereof) which would be subject to refund if the license or permit is not
granted;
      (3)   Any monies collected by the town as agent for another governmental
entity or other person, and required by law, ordinance or contractual agreement
to be paid over to the other entity or person;
      (4)   Any monies collected or received and held by the town as trustee
for the benefit of and eventual payment over to another person; and
      (5)   Any monies (or portion thereof) believed to have been erroneously
collected or received and eventually requiring refund or transfer to another
entity or person.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may draw warrants on and make payments from the
Special Deposit Fund to persons to whom the monies are lawfully and properly
owing without prior allowance of a claim. The Clerk-Treasurer may invest monies
on deposit in the Special Deposit Fund in the same manner as prescribed for
investment of other town monies.
   (D)   In the event that any monies deposited in the Special Deposit Fund
become subject, for any reason, to absolute possession by the town, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall transfer the monies to the General Fund, or to some other fund
to which those monies would properly have accrued had they been subject to
absolute possession by the town in the first instance; and the Clerk-Treasurer
may make the transfer without any further authorization.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -)
§ 31.05 PAYROLL FUND CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special reverting fund of the town to be
known as the “Payroll Fund”. The Payroll Fund shall be used for making payment
of salaries and wages owed to civil town and utility officers and employees,
and to make payments of associated expenses and outlays such as for withholding
taxes or contribution, or employees.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, without further authorization, periodically
make transfers from the various other civil town and utility funds to the
Payroll Fund as are necessary to make the above described payments, in
accordance with the annual budgets, appropriations and salary ordinances of the
town.
   (C)   The Payroll Fund is intended as a fund transfer and payment
consolidation account only, and any appropriations from other funds for
salaries and wages and associated expenditures as described above shall be
construed as concurrent appropriations from, and sufficient authority to make
payments out of, the Payroll Fund for the purposes authorized under this
section.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -)
§ 31.06 PROMOTIONAL FUND CREATED.
   (A)   A fund, to be known as the Promotional Fund, is hereby established.
The Town Council may budget and appropriate funds from the General Fund or from
other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the betterment of the
town.
   (B)   Expenditures from this fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the town belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the town, including meeting room rental, decorations, meals and
travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates or objects such as
commemorative keys; and
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to the promotion or betterment of the town.
   (C)   No expenses shall be allowed from this fund without prior
authorization and approval of the Town Council President. Claims for expenses
under this section will be allowed as prescribed by law.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. passed 7-6-1982)
§ 31.07 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND (CIGARETTE TAX) CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a “Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund”
into which the proceeds of cigarette tax monies will be deposited after being
received from distributions from the state for the purposes as hereafter
outlined and as provided by I.C. 6-7-1-12, the fund to remain in effect and in
existence for so long as statutory authorization therefor remains in existence
in the state.
   (B)   Funds deposited in this capital improvement fund may be used for the
following purposes:
      (1)   For allocation of real property, buildings, rights-of-way or
easements;
      (2)   For construction or improvement of municipally owned property,
including but not limited to streets and sewers;
      (3)   For payment of salaries or wages of public officials or employees,
but only to the extent that the compensation is directly attributable to
services performed in connection with functions described under divisions (B)
(1) or (2) above; and
      (4)   For retirement of any general obligation bonds sold by the town to
finance costs incurred for purposes described under divisions (B)(1) through
(3) above.
   (C)   However, the Town Council may by resolution transfer any
unappropriated monies in the Cigarette Tax Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
to the General Fund at any time, and use the transferred monies for any purpose
for which General Fund monies may lawfully be appropriated and expended.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-7) (Ord. passed 4-7-1976)
§ 31.08 LEVY EXCESS FUND CREATED.
   In accordance with the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-7, there is hereby
established a “Levy Excess Fund” into which shall be receipted any portion of
the town’s annual ad valorem property tax distribution which exceeds 102% of
the total ad valorem property tax levy as provided in the approved and
certified town budget. Monies deposited in the Levy Excess Fund may only be
used for purposes authorized by the State Board of Tax Commissioners, but may
be invested and any earnings distributed in the same manner as for other town
monies.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -)
§ 31.09 RAINY DAY FUND CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund of the town which shall be known
and designated as the Rainy Day Fund and which shall be for the purpose of
receiving the transfer of remaining balances of monies raised by a general or
special tax levy after the purposes of the general or special tax levy have
been fulfilled.
   (B)   The intent of the fund is to set aside monies that may be used by the
town in the future for the benefit of the town and its citizens.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process
as other funds that receive tax monies and no appropriation from the Rainy Day
Fund shall be made unless the Town Council makes a finding that the proposed
use of the monies to be appropriated is consistent with the intent of the fund.
   (D)   No transfer shall be made from any fund to the Rainy Day Fund except
in accordance with the provisions set forth in I.C. 36-1-8-5 and 36-1-8-5.1.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 31.10 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND CREATED.
   (A)   Creation of LOIT Special Distribution Fund. There is hereby
established a "LOIT Special Distribution Fund" to receive and account for the
restricted portion of the one-time LOIT Special Distribution.
   (B)   Purpose of the Fund. The funds on deposit in the LOIT Special
Distribution Fund may be used solely for the purposes specified in I.C. 6-3.6-
9-17 (h)(1)(A).
   (C)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds for the LOIT Special Distribution Fund by appropriations made in the same
manner as other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 8-4-2016)
§ 31.11 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The sources of funding include monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act and distributed to the town in 2021
and 2022 and such other years as hereafter provided by amendments to said ARP
Act.
   (C)   Uses of funding.
      (1)   The town shall only appropriate and use funds to cover costs
incurred by the town by December 31, 2026, for the following:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses and non-profits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
         (b)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
of the town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency.
The town intends to use all of its ARP Grant Funds for the provision of
government services to the extent of the reduction in revenue of such non-
entitlement unit of local government, pursuant to Section 603(c)(1)(C) of the
Social Security Act, (the Act). The U.S. Treasury Department’s Final Rule
states that a standard allowance of up to $10,000,000 of revenue replacement
can be claimed regardless of the revenue replacement calculation procedures
laid out under the Act, not to exceed the locality’s total grant award. The
town may therefore use up to its full grant award amount within the expense
category of 06 Revenue Replacement; or
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the
use of such funds.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 5-6-2021; Ord. 2022-4, passed 6-2-2022)
§ 31.12 CAPITAL ASSETS POLICY.
   (A)   General information. In order to establish and maintain accountability
for capital assets owned by the town, the town adopted this capital assets
policy effective September 1, 2021.
   (B)   Definitions of capital assets. Capital assets include: land,
easements, right-of-ways, land improvements, buildings, building improvements,
construction in progress, machinery and equipment, vehicles, infrastructure,
works of art and monuments with a useful life of more than one year (including
acquisitions by lease-purchase agreements and donated items) with an original
cost or estimated value of $10,000 or more.
   (C)   Valuation of capital assets. Capital assets should be recorded at
actual cost, if known. If the original cost is not known, an estimate should be
made of the assets’ original cost. This valuation should be of the assets’
original or estimated original cost, not the current replacement cost of the
asset. Normally the cost recorded is the purchase price or construction costs
of the asset, but also included is any other reasonable and necessary costs
incurred to place the asset in its intended location and intended use, that can
be directly related to the asset. Donated or contributed assets should be
recorded at their fair market value on the date donated or acquired.
   (D)   Asset definitions by major category. It is important to the
maintenance of accurate records that each asset category be precisely defined
and that all persons responsible for records maintenance be fully aware of the
categorization system. This section further clarifies the asset definitions by
major category.
      (1)   Land, easements and right-of-ways. Specified land, easements,
right-of-ways, lots, parcels or acreage owned by the unit or its various
departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the method or date of
acquisition.
      (2)   Improvements other than buildings. Examples of unit assets in this
category are walks, parking areas and drives, fencing, retaining walls, pools,
fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
      (3)   Buildings. All structures designed and erected to house equipment,
services, or functions are included. This includes systems, services, and
fixtures within the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire
escapes, canopies, areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such
units that serve the building. Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating,
cooling, ventilating and air handling systems, sprinkler systems, alarm
systems, sound systems, and surveillance systems, passenger and freight
elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers and freezers, fixed
shelving, and other fixed equipment are included with the building, if owned.
Communications antennas and/or towers are not included as buildings. These are
parts of the equipment units that they serve.
      (4)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the capital assets policy not previously classified.
Included within this category are office mechanical equipment, office
furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance equipment,
communication equipment, police, fire, sanitation and park department
equipment, laboratory equipment, dogs, horses, vehicles, road equipment,
aircraft, emergency equipment, earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil
defense equipment, data processing equipment, and zoo wildlife. All supplies
are excluded.
      (5)   Infrastructure. Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets
that normally can be preserved for a significant greater number of years than
most capital assets and are normally stationary in nature. Examples include
roads, bridges, sidewalks, street lights, traffic signals, street signs,
drainage systems, and water systems. Infrastructure assets can include
structures directly related to the infrastructure. Examples would include rest
area facilities and road maintenance structures such as shops and garages
associated with a highway system, and water pumping buildings associated with
water systems.
      (6)   Books and other. Assets not easily classified by other categories
may be classified as books and other.
   (E)   Asset transfers and dispositions. Property should not be transferred,
turned-in for auction, or disposed of without prior approval of the appropriate
department head. A capital assets notification form should be sent to the
fiscal officer in all cases. Invoices for new purchases will not be paid unless
this form is attached. Deletions for any reason must be reported to the fiscal
officer or his/her designee. Transfers are defined as any movement of an asset
by virtue of change in location, either by account, department, building,
floor, or room. If an asset is stolen, the department head should ensure that a
police report is promptly filed and that the police report be forwarded to the
fiscal officer along with the capital assets notification form.
   (F)   Periodic inventories. A physical inventory of capital assets will be
conducted by each department as near as practical to year-end. The fiscal
officer will provide a list of the inventory on file which will be sent to each
department before each year-end. The department heads will then compare
physical observations of assets to the listing noting whether the assets exist,
the location if not apparent otherwise, and other relevant factors. If the
condition of an asset has deteriorated to the point its useful life has been
impaired, that fact should be noted. Assets which are observed during the
physical inventory which are not on the inventory list should be noted.
Omission of assets included on the inventory list should also be noted, and the
reasons for such omissions should be documented to the extent possible.
Department heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to
their department. The physical inventory sheet and related documentation will
be forwarded to the fiscal officer who will compare the results of the physical
inventory to the capital asset records and make necessary adjustments to the
capital assets.
   (G)   Depreciation expense and accumulated depreciation. Capital assets
subject to depreciation will be depreciated annually on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful life of each individual depreciable asset, or when
the asset is disposed of, whichever occurs first. No depreciation will be taken
in the year the depreciable asset is placed in service and a full year's
depreciation will be taken in the year an individual asset is disposed of or
otherwise placed out of service. Depreciation will accumulate each year the
asset is in service. Accumulated depreciation will be limited to the original
cost of each individual asset and annual depreciation expense will cease when
an asset is fully depreciated, which is defined as the point accumulated
depreciation equals the original cost of the asset. Certain assets such as land
are not subject to depreciation. No depreciation will be taken in the years an
asset is being constructed, defined as construction-in-progress.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 9-2-2021)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Employee Personnel Policies and Benefits
   
32.01   Vacation, sick and other leave policy
   
32.02   Reserved
   
32.03   Mileage allowance for official use of private vehicles
   
32.04   Procedure for fixing annually determined compensation
   
32.05   Payment schedule for salaries and wages
   
32.06   Anti-nepotism and conflict of interest policy
Office of the Town Marshal
   
32.15   Police reserves; establishment of reserve force; appointment and
qualifications of members
   
32.16   Supervision of reserve deputies; powers and duties of members
   
32.17   Limitations of police powers of reserve deputies
   
32.18   Probationary period for reserve deputies
   
32.19   Training requirements for reserve deputies
   
32.20   Compensation of reserve deputies
   
32.21   Reserve deputies’ uniforms and equipment
   
32.22   Insurance requirements for reserve deputies
   
32.23   Waiver of liability requirement for reserve deputies
   
32.24   Certain marshal’s fees established; disposition
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.35   Authority to employ clerical assistant
   
32.36   Certain Clerk’s service fees established; disposition
Cross-reference:
   Civil defense procedures, see
Chapter 35
   Emergencies, see
Chapter 35
   Town Council, see
Chapter 33
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL POLICIES AND BENEFITS
§ 32.01 VACATION, SICK AND OTHER LEAVE POLICY.
   (A)   Vacation leave.
      (1)   Full time employees.
         (a)   After 90 day probationary period and continuing through second
year of employment: one week.
         (b)   Beginning third year of employment: two weeks.
         (c)   Beginning fourth year of employment: three weeks.
         (d)   Beginning fifth year of employment: four weeks.
         (e)   Maximum four weeks’ vacation.
      (2)   Part time employees.
         (a)   After 90 day probationary period and continuing through second
year of employment: one week.
         (b)   Beginning third year of employment: two weeks.
         (c)   Maximum two weeks’ vacation.
      (3)   Vacation days shall not be carried over; any unused vacation days
shall be lost. Employees who are terminated forfeit any unused vacation days.
      (4)   Pay in lieu of vacation days shall not ordinarily be permitted,
however, under extraordinary circumstances the Town Council may make exceptions
if the workload exceeds the employees’ capabilities to effectively complete his
or her work under the time constraints required.
   (B)   Sick leave.
      (1)   Full time employees will be eligible for sick leave after a 90-day
probationary period at the rate of one day per month (maximum 12 days per year)
for illness or injury.
      (2)   A maximum of five days of sick leave may be carried over from one
year to the next.
      (3)   Sick leave is a benefit that shall only be used while actively
employed, for illness or injury and shall not be considered deferred
compensation.
   (C)   Other leave. The Town Council may from time to time as the need arises
make accommodation for bereavement leave, court leave, military leave and
personal leave upon the request of an individual employee.
(1985 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. passed 4-6-1982; Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-8-2004; Ord.
2021-8, passed 10-7-2021)
§ 32.02 RESERVED.
§ 32.03 MILEAGE ALLOWANCE FOR OFFICIAL USE OF PRIVATE VEHICLES.
   (A)   For use of a private motor vehicle on official business, officers and
employees of the town or municipally owned utilities shall be paid a mileage
allowance at a rate per mile equal to that then paid by the state to its
officers and employees for official use of private vehicles.
   (B)   Payment of mileage allowances shall be subject to and limited by
available appropriations for that purpose. Mileage allowances shall be paid on
a cumulative monthly basis, and an officer or employee seeking reimbursement
under this section must submit a claim therefor to the Clerk-Treasurer at least
five days prior to the regular meeting of the Town Council for the month
following that for which accumulated reimbursement is sought. The claim shall
detail the date of each trip, the purpose thereof and mileage accrued.
(1985 Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 32.04 PROCEDURE FOR FIXING ANNUALLY DETERMINED COMPENSATION.
   In the case of all salaries, wage rates or other types of compensation for
personal services rendered by town officers and employees and which are
required to be approved and fixed on an annual basis by the Town Council for
the ensuing budget year, the procedures of this section shall be followed.
   (A)   On or before July 1 of each year, the chief officer of each office,
department, board or agency of the town shall submit to the Clerk-Treasurer, on
a form substantially as set forth in Exhibit 1 below, a statement of salaries
or rates of wages or other compensation proposed to be paid during the ensuing
budget year for officers, members, employees or other compensated personnel of
that office, board, department or agency.
      (1)   In the case of full-time, part-time or temporary personnel to be
compensated on the basis of a fixed salary, the proposed salary rate calculated
on a monthly basis (irrespective of the position holder’s payroll period) shall
be given, and total annual salary adjusted as to anticipated length of
employment during the ensuing year (e.g., a salaried temporary employee
anticipated to work only three months of the year would have a total annual
salary of three times the monthly rate of salary).
      (2)   In the case of personnel to be paid on hourly wage, or to be paid
on some intermittent or irregular basis (e.g., a per diem or per-meeting basis
and the like), the proposed rate of the pay shall be shown in the lower section
of the form.
      (3)   If any position is intended to be compensated on a combined basis,
as for example a board or commission member to be paid a fixed annual amount
plus a rate of compensation per meeting attended, that position and the
respective rates of pay under each basis should be listed in both schedules on
the form.
   (B)   At the Town Council’s regular meeting in July, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall present the submitted forms, plus a completed form for the Clerk-
Treasurer’s own office, to the Council for its consideration. The Council may
approve each form as submitted, or may make any deletions, additions or changes
which it deems desirable as to positions or amounts of compensation.
   (C)   At its July meeting, subject to the stipulations of I.C. 36-5-2-9.8,
or at a subsequent special meeting conducted for that purpose prior to August
1, the Town Council shall enact a salary ordinance for the ensuing year setting
forth each position and the salary, rate of wages or other compensation finally
approved and fixed therefor under division (B) above. However, nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent the Town Council from subsequently amending the
salary ordinance after its adoption, except to the extent prohibited or
restricted by statute.
EXHIBIT 1
STATEMENT OF SALARIES AND WAGES
PROPOSED TO BE PAID OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CALENDAR YEAR 20____
__________________________________________
(Name of Office, Department, Board or Agency)
   The following statement shows the salaries and wages proposed to be paid to
officers and employees of the above named office, department, board or agency
during the calendar year 20____.
SALARIED PERSONNEL
Title of Position or    Number Rate of Monthly Salary Total Annual Salaries
Employee Classification
Totals
 
HOURLY RATED OR INTERMITTENTLY COMPENSATED PERSONNEL
Title of Position
or Employee Classification                     Rate of Pay
___________________________________            ___________ per ______________
___________________________________            ___________ per ______________
___________________________________            ___________ per ______________
___________________________________            ___________ per ______________
___________________________________            ___________ per ______________
___________________________________            ___________ per ______________
___________________________________            ___________ per ______________
Submitted By:   _________________________________
          (Signature)
            _________________________________
            (Title)
Date _________________ 20______
(1985 Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed 11-29-1984)
§ 32.05 PAYMENT SCHEDULE FOR SALARIES AND WAGES.
   Salaries and wages owed to civil town and utility officers and employees
shall be payable in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Class of Officer/Employee Compensation Schedule
Town Council members      Quarterly
Other officers/employees  Weekly
 
(1985 Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed 11-29-1984)
§ 32.06 ANTI-NEPOTISM AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the town shall have a nepotism and contracting with a
unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter nepotism policy) and I.C. 36-1- 21 (hereinafter contracting with a
unit by a relative policy) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 nepotism in effect on July 1 is attached to
Ord. 2012-2, passed 7-5-2012.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-21 contracting with a
unit by a relative in effect on July 1 is attached to Ord. 2012-2, passed 7-5-
2012.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed and that
more details are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without the authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-
9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without the authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism or contracting with a unit
policies is a violation and may result in the discipline, including
termination, of an employee or a transfer from the direct line of supervision
or other curative action. An elected or appointed official of the city who
fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
certifications of either policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions: a) posting a copy of this section
in its entirety in at least one of the locations in the town where it posts
employer posters or other notices to its employees; b) providing a copy of this
section to its employees and elected and appointed officials; c) providing or
posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or d) any other action or
actions that would communicate the policies established by this section to its
employees and elected and appointed officials. Upon taking any of these actions
these policies are deemed implemented by the town.
   (K)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 effective
July 1, 2012 are annexed hereto.
   (L)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town and
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 7-5-2012)
OFFICE OF THE TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.15 POLICE RESERVES; ESTABLISHMENT OF RESERVE FORCE; APPOINTMENT AND
QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, there is hereby established a force of
reserve police officers for the town. The Town Council may appoint up to four
reserve police officers to serve in the town, the officers to be known as
Reserve Deputy Town Marshals. Each member shall be in good physical condition
and of good character, and not less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   Appointments to the police reserve unit shall be made by the President
of the Town Council, by and with the advice and counsel of the Town Council and
the Town Marshal, and shall serve for a term subject to the pleasure of the
Town Council.
   (C)   Before entering upon his or her duties, each member shall take and
subscribe to the same oath or affirmation as provided by the statutes to be
taken and subscribed by Town Marshals. After subscribing his or her oath of
office, each member of the police reserve unit shall be issued an official
commission card signed by the President of the Town Council. The card shall be
retained in the personal possession of the Reserve Deputy Town Marshal at all
times.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.16 SUPERVISION OF RESERVE DEPUTIES; POWERS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The police reserve unit shall function under the immediate direction
of the Town Marshal or, in his or her absence, the senior Deputy Town Marshal
on duty. Except during any period of probation, and except as provided under §
32.17, members of the police reserve unit shall have all the powers and
authority and shall be subject to the rules and regulations governing the
Police Department.
   (B)   However, membership in the police reserve unit shall not constitute
membership in the regularly constituted Police Department, nor shall any member
of the police reserve unit be entitled to any right or privilege of
compensation, pension or other similar right or privilege of members of the
regularly constituted Police Department, nor to any other perquisite or
emolument attaching to membership in the regularly constituted Police
Department.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-2) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.17 LIMITATIONS OF POLICE POWERS OF RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   Reserve deputies shall abide by the rules of instruction given them by the
Town Council and/or Town Marshal from time to time, and shall have no police
power at any time other than:
   (A)   During the time they may be assigned to duty by the Town Council and/
or Town Marshal;
   (B)   During the time they may be called to duty by the Town Council and/or
Town Marshal; and
   (C)   During the time of an emergency need for police assistance within the
territorial limits of the town on the occasion of the absence or unavailability
of the Town Marshal or a regular Deputy Town Marshal.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-3) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.18 PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   (A)   Each new member of the police reserve unit shall serve on probation a
minimum of six months and a maximum of 12 months following the date of his or
her appointment.
   (B)   During that period of probation, he or she shall be a member on
probation and shall have only the power, authority and duties as are assigned
to him or her, from time to time, by the Town Marshal or the Town Council.
   (C)   Upon completion of six months and at any time before expiration of 12
months of probation, the Town Marshal may transfer any member from probationary
to active status.
   (D)   If the Town Marshal does not transfer the member from probationary to
active status before the expiration of 12 months of probation, the member shall
be dropped automatically from membership in the town police reserve unit.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-4) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.19 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   The Town Marshal shall determine the program for training members of the
police reserve unit in police work.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-5) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.20 COMPENSATION OF RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   No member of the police reserve unit shall receive any compensation from the
town for his or her services as a member of the police reserve unit except as
may be provided from time to time by resolution of the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-6) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.21 RESERVE DEPUTIES’ UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   The members of the police reserve unit shall furnish their own uniforms and
other necessary equipment, without reimbursement from the town, except only to
the extent, if any, specifically provided for in the annual appropriation
ordinance of the town.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-7) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.22 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   (A)   A Reserve Deputy Town Marshal shall maintain and keep in force at all
times accident, medical and death benefit insurance policies, providing
insurance coverage for himself or herself.
   (B)   If the policy and/or policies shall be provided and maintained by
individual Reserve Deputy Town Marshals, they shall be subject to prior
approval of the Town Council and a certificate of the insurance shall be
delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-8) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.23 WAIVER OF LIABILITY REQUIREMENT FOR RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   Each present member of the town police reserve unit shall, promptly after
being appointed as a member of the unit and prior to taking his or her oath of
office, execute and deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer an instrument in form to be
approved by the Town Attorney, releasing the town from all liability for any
injury or death of the member in the line of duty as a member of the unit,
excepting only the liability, if any, as shall be attributed to gross
negligence on the part of the town.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-9) (Ord. passed 3-6-1984)
§ 32.24 CERTAIN MARSHAL’S FEES ESTABLISHED; DISPOSITION.
   For services provided to the public by the Office of the Town Marshal, the
following service fees are established.
   (A)   Police reports/motor vehicle accidents. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-
3, a fee of $3 is hereby established for each motor vehicle accident report not
exceeding two pages given to persons asking for the copies. An additional fee
of $1 shall be charged for each page in excess of two pages. Receipts from this
fee shall be credited to a special non-reverting fund to be known as the
“Accident Report Fund”, which the Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and maintain.
Monies credited to the Accident Report Fund may only be budgeted and expended
for purposes which the Town Marshal determines to be related to the keeping of
accident reports or the prevention of traffic accidents.
   (B)   Other disclosable police reports. For copies of other disclosable
police reports, excepting copies as may be required for the use of prosecuting
attorneys or a court pursuant to the enforcement of a law or ordinance, the
same fee shall apply as fixed for copies of public records and documents
provided by the office of the Clerk-Treasurer under §
32.36(A)(2) below. These receipts shall be deposited in the General Fund.
   (C)   Handgun license applications. Pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3, any person
submitting an application to the Town Marshal for a license to carry a handgun,
either qualified or unlimited, shall pay to the town an application fee of $50
which is t be deposited in a special non-reverting fund to be known as the
“Firearms Training Fund”, which the Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and
maintain, and which may only be budgeted and expended for firearms training or
other law enforcement training for the Marshal’s office.
   (D)   Out-of-state vehicle verification. Whenever the Office of the Town
Marshal is requested to verify the title and registration of an out-of-state
motor vehicle requiring police inspection under I.C. 9-17-2-12(C)(3) pursuant
to its registration and licensing in the state, a fee of $5 shall be paid to
the town by the applicant. This fee shall be deposited in the town’s General
Fund.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-10) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed 11-29-1984)
OFFICE OF THE CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.35 AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY CLERICAL ASSISTANT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may employ a Secretary and Clerk for the administration
and clerical detail in connection with the municipal affairs of the town and
the town water corporation, subject to the inclusion and limitations for
position as approved by the Town Council in the annual salary ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. 3C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 55, passed 5-5-1948)
§ 32.36 CERTAIN CLERK’S SERVICE FEES ESTABLISHED; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   For services provided to the public by the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, the following service fees are established:
      (1)   For checking and certifying as to municipal lines or other
outstanding charges attaching to real property: $3;
      (2)   For making and providing copies of public records and documents,
other than those for which a higher or lower copying charge is established by
law or ordinance, a fee of $0.50 per page shall be charged, the fee having been
considered and determined by the Town Council to be reasonable and reflective
of all actual costs to the town in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8(d); and
      (3)   For performing marriages: $35.
   (B)   Fees collected under this section shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the town.
(1985 Code, § 2-5-2) (Ord. 1C-1984, passed 11-29-1984)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
33.01   Town Council in continuous session
   
33.02   Regular meeting schedule established; notice
   
33.03   Rules of parliamentary procedure
   
33.04   Town Council President; Pro Tem
   
33.05   Attendance by town officers at Council meetings
   
33.06   Any registered voter may be elected
   
33.07   Council members elected at large
   
33.08   Terms of office
   
33.09   No districts and wards
§ 33.01 TOWN COUNCIL IN CONTINUOUS SESSION.
   The Town Council shall have no definite session or sessions, but shall be in
continuous session for the conduct of the executive and legislative business of
the town government. The continuous session shall consist of regular meetings,
special meetings, executive sessions or other conventions for the conduct of
town business, as the Council deems necessary.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-1) (Ord. 2C-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 33.02 REGULAR MEETING SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall meet and conduct a regular meeting on the first
Thursday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Town Hall.
   (B)   At least 48 hours prior to the first regular meetings for the year at
the Town Hall, and shall mail a copy to any news media having requested same in
writing prior to January 1. No further notice of regular meetings is required
unless the time or place of the regular meeting is changed.
   (C)   However, the Town Council President may, upon 48-hour notice given to
the Clerk-Treasurer (or lesser notice in case of emergency):
      (1)   Change the meeting place, if the Town Hall is unsuitable for any
reason; and/or
      (2)   Advance or postpone the time of the meeting to better suit the
convenience of the Council or the public, but may not make a postponement of
more than one week without the unanimous consent of the other Council members.
   (D)   If the time and/or place of the meeting is changed, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall post notice of the change at the Town Hall (and at the new
meeting place, if the meeting place is changed) and also give notice to any
requesting news media immediately upon being notified of the change, and shall
inform or make a good faith attempt to inform all Council members of the
changed time and/or place of the meeting either by mail, telephone or in
person.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-2) (Ord. 2C-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 33.03 RULES OF PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following rules of procedure shall be in effect at all Town
Council meetings and shall have the precedence indicated:
      (1)   First, all procedural rules applicable to a Town Council as
prescribed by I.C. 36-5-2 or any other statute shall be observed;
      (2)   Secondly, any further, supplementary or special rules or bylaws
specifically adopted by the Council in an ordinance, resolution or motion shall
apply to the extent not in conflict with division (A)(1) above; and
      (3)   Thirdly, the rules of procedure prescribed by the latest edition of
Robert’s Rules of Order shall apply to the extent not in conflict with
divisions (A)(1) and (2) above.
   (B)   However, any or all rules applicable under divisions (A)(2) or (3)
above may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the members present if the
Council wishes to function informally for purposes of an executive session,
informal business or discussion session, or as a committee-of-the-whole.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-3) (Ord. 2C-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 33.04 TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT; PRO TEM.
   (A)   As its first regular meeting of each year, the Town Council, by
majority vote of the members present, shall elect one of its members as
President and another as Vice-President.
   (B)   The President shall have all powers and duties prescribed by law or
ordinance for the Town Council President or Town Executive, and all implied
powers or duties customarily deemed necessary or dispensable to the function of
the presiding officer of a public governing body.
   (C)   The President shall serve until his or her successor is elected at the
next succeeding regular meeting in January, or until he or she resigns the
Presidency, or ceases to be a member of the Town Council.
   (D)   If a vacancy occurs, the Council shall elect another member to fill
the vacating President’s term at its next regular meeting thereafter.
   (E)   If a vacancy occurs, the Council shall elect another member of the
Town Council.
   (F)   If a President’s term at its next regular meeting thereafter.
   (G)   If the President is temporarily absent or disqualified from presiding
at a meeting for any reason, the Vice President shall have all powers and
duties of the President for purposes of conducting the business of that
meeting.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-4) (Ord. 2C-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 33.05 ATTENDANCE BY TOWN OFFICERS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every town officer or department head of a
civil town administrative unit or a municipally owned utility to attend every
Town Council meeting, except as hereafter provided.
   (B)   Exceptions to this rule are as follows:
      (1)   The officer or department head is on recognized vacation or sick
leave;
      (2)   The officer’s or department head’s official duties necessitate his
or her presence elsewhere at the time of the meeting, as for a police emergency
or similar reason;
      (3)   The meeting is a special meeting, informal business session or
executive session limited to particular declared business which does not
concern the official functions of the officer or department head, in which case
the officer or department head need not attend unless requested by a Council
member; or
      (4)   The meeting is a closed and confidential executive session as
authorized by law, in which case an officer or department head (other than the
Clerk-Treasurer to keep records) may not attend unless his or her presence is
required for the purposes of the meeting.
   (C)   If an officer or department head is prevented from attending any
meeting, which he or she is expected to attend under the provisions of this
section, he or she shall as soon as possible advise the Town Council president
of the reasons for his or her nonattendance. If an officer or department head
is not required to attend a meeting for reason in divisions (B)(1) or (2)
above, or is for any reason prevented from attending a meeting which he or she
is expected to attend, and has a deputy, the deputy shall attend in place of
the principal officer or department head.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-5) (Ord. 2C-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 33.06 ANY REGISTERED VOTER MAY BE ELECTED.
   Any registered voter residing within the town limits may be elected to hold
any of the three seats on the Town Council.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 33.07 COUNCIL MEMBERS ELECTED AT LARGE.
   All Town Council members shall be elected at large by all of the voters of
the town.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 33.08 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Town elections shall be held in the years 2007, 2008 and each
successive general election year thereafter.
   (B)   The terms for Council President, Council Vice President, Council
members and Town Clerk- Treasurer shall be for four years.
   (E)   The terms of office for each town officer elected shall begin on
January 1 after each election.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 33.09 NO DISTRICTS AND WARDS.
   Since there are no districts or wards established for the purposes of
municipal elections in the town, all members of the Town Council shall reside
within the incorporated boundaries of the town and shall be elected or
appointed, as the case may be, at large.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 6-3-2004)
CHAPTER 34: CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
Section
   
34.01   General enforcement policy
   
34.02   Responsibility for enforcement; duty of Town Marshal
   
34.03   Enforcement by other officials, boards or commissions
   
34.04   Procedure for issuance of citation; service in person
   
34.05   Issuance and service of citation by mail
   
34.06   Notice to appear; refusal to sign; security for release
   
34.07   Conditional citation or offense with conditional penalties
   
34.08   Warning instead of official citation
   
34.09   Statute of limitations on issuance of citation
   
34.10   Form of citation and summons; traffic offenses; other offenses
   
34.11   Administrative procedure on issuance of citation
   
34.12   Procedure for fixing requested fine
   
34.13   Compromise and settlement of complaint with trial
   
34.14   Filing and prosecution of violation complaint
   
34.15   Appearance for defendant and for the town
   
34.16   Payment of fines, other costs and prosecutor’s fee
   
34.17   Record of conviction or compromise of violation
   
34.18   Further or collateral actions for enforcement or recovery
   
34.19   Allocation and deposit of receipted fines, fees and costs
   
34.20   Further rules and procedures for enforcement
§ 34.01 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Whenever any provision of this code requires or mandates any person to
perform some act or to bring about or maintain some circumstance or state of
affairs; or prohibits, restrains or regulates the behavior of any person or the
commission of any act or the bringing about or maintaining of any circumstance
or state of affairs on the part of any person; and a penalty of fine or some
other procedure to compel compliance with the provision is prescribed in this
code, then that provision shall be considered an enforcement provision.
   (B)   Unless some different procedure is expressly set forth and prescribed
by the particular chapter, subchapter or section, this code containing the
enforcement provision, the enforcement of the provision shall be administered
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 34.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT; DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   Unless some other official, board, commission or similar entity is
expressly designated as the primary enforcement officer or authority
responsible for the administration and enforcement of a particular enforcement
provision, it is the duty of the Town Marshal, acting himself or herself or
through his or her lawful deputies, to take all steps necessary for the
effective enforcement and bringing about of compliance with all enforcement
provisions.
   (B)   Whenever the Town Marshal, based upon his or her own vigilance or upon
the information or complaint of any other official or any citizen, has probable
cause to believe that a violation or failure to comply with any enforcement
provision has occurred or is occurring, he or she shall with due diligence
investigate the matter, ascertain the facts, and collect the testimony,
information or other evidence as in his or her judgment may be necessary to
supports the facts.
   (C)   If, incident upon the investigation, the Town Marshal determines with
a degree of certainty sustained by a preponderance of the evidence that some
known person has violated or failed to comply with, or is violating or failing
to comply with, any enforcement provision, he or she shall issue and serve upon
the alleged offender, in person or by mail if so provided, a citation for the
violation as hereafter prescribed in this chapter; or else he or she shall
initiate or cause to be initiated other enforcement procedures as may
alternatively be prescribed in the event of a violation of the particular
enforcement provision.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 34.03 ENFORCEMENT BY OTHER OFFICIALS, BOARDS OR COMMISSIONS.
   Whenever in this code any official, board, commission or similar entity is
given responsibility instead of or concurrent with that of the Town Marshal for
the administration and enforcement of any enforcement provision, he or she or
they shall perform the same duties and functions with respect to the
enforcement of the provision as are prescribed for the Town Marshal under §
34.02, and the term ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall mean and include other officials,
boards, commissions or similar entities or their properly authorized agents.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 34.04 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF CITATION; SERVICE IN PERSON.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement officer issues a citation for violation of any
enforcement provision, the enforcement officer may, pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-3,
detain the person for a sufficient time to:
      (1)   Inform the person of the allegation;
      (2)   Obtain the person’s name, address and date of birth, or driver’s
license if in his or her possession, for purposes of identification; and
      (3)   Allow the person to execute a notice to appear in court to answer
the charges of the violation, except as provided in §
34.07.
   (B)   If the person being charged refuses to provide the information or
driver’s license as required by division (A)(2) above, the enforcement officer
shall inform the person that the refusal constitutes a violation of state law
and commits a Class C misdemeanor pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-3.5, and may subject
the person to arrest and further penalties as may be provided for the offense.
   (C)   If the person continues to refuse to provide the information or
driver’s license, the enforcement officer, if a duly constituted police
officer, may immediately arrest the person on a charge of having committed a
Class C misdemeanor; if the enforcement officer is not a duly constituted
police officer authorized to exercise power of arrest, he or she shall continue
to detain the person for a period of time as is reasonably necessary to summon
the duly constituted police officer, who shall arrest the person on a charge of
having committed a Class C misdemeanor.
   (D)   If the person being charged with a violation is a corporation,
partnership, company or other organization other than a natural person, the
enforcement officer shall serve the citation upon the resident agent for a
service of process, a director, principal or principal officer of the
corporation, company or other organization having the power and authority under
the organizing documents, charter or rules of the corporation, company or other
organization to accept process and execute a notice to appear on behalf of the
organization.
   (E)   If the offense charged is one arising out of the condition or use of
any real or personal property for which the person owning or holding the
property is made liable, and the property is owned or held by more than one
person in joint tenancy or partnership, it shall be sufficient to issue and
serve the citation on any one of the joint tenants or partners.
   (F)   If the person being charged with a violation is a minor child and, in
the opinion of the enforcement officer, the child is of a young age or immature
character so as to not fully understand the significance of the citation and
notice to appear and his or her responsibilities and obligations thereunder,
the enforcement officer shall ascertain the name and address of a parent or
legal guardian to execute the notice to appear on behalf of the child.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-4)
§ 34.05 ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF CITATION BY MAIL.
   Whenever it is found by an enforcement officer that any identifiable person
has violated or is violating any enforcement provision, or is liable and
accountable for the violation, but the person cannot be conveniently confronted
and served in person with a citation as provided in §
34.04, then it is permissible for the enforcement officer to issue the citation
for violation and cause it to be served by registered or certified mail with
return receipt of delivery to the last known address of the alleged offender.
When a citation is served in this manner, the person upon whom it is served is
not required to execute a notice to appear nor to deposit any security as
guarantee for appearance as would or might otherwise be required pursuant to §
34.06, but in addition to any other information and notices to be included with
the citation as hereafter provided, a citation served by mail shall include a
statement that failure to appear in court at the time and place indicated to
answer the charge or to compromise and settle the complaint within the allotted
time may subject the offender to further proceeding and additional costs.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-5)
§ 34.06 NOTICE TO APPEAR; REFUSAL TO SIGN; SECURITY FOR RELEASE.
   (A)   Any person who is a resident of the state and is detained by an
enforcement officer for the purpose of issuing and serving a citation for
violation of an enforcement provision, and who provides the enforcement officer
with a satisfactory identification in accordance with §
34.04(A)(2), and executes a signed notice to appear in court in accordance with
§
34.04(A)(3) shall thereupon be released from the detention without other bond
or security for appearance.
   (B)   However, if the person is not a resident of the state and/or refuses
to sign a notice to appear in court, the following additional procedures and
requirements apply before the enforcement officer releases the person from
detention, as the appropriate case may be.
      (1)   If the person is a resident of the state, and the offense charged
is violation of an enforcement provision constituting a moving traffic offense
or a nonmoving traffic offense required by law or regulation to be reported to
the State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, and the person refuses to sign the
notice to appear, the enforcement officer before releasing the person shall
inform him or her that, notwithstanding his or her refusal to sign the notice,
he or she is obligated by law to appear at the time and place indicated in the
citation or to previously compromise and settle the complaint in the manner
hereafter provided, and that failure to do so will result in his or her arrest
on warrant of the court and/or suspension of his or her driver’s license in
accordance with I.C. 9-30-3-8.
      (2)   If the person is a nonresident of the state and the offense charged
is violation of an enforcement provision constituting a moving traffic offense
required by law or regulation to be reported to the State Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles, the enforcement officer shall, before releasing the person:
         (a)   Require the person to deposit a security for appearance of the
type described by I.C. 9-30-2-5(b), and in the manner prescribed by I.C. 9-30-
2-5(c) or 34-28-6-1, respectively, and also to execute a security deposit
agreement as described by I.C. 34-28-6-3; and
         (b)   If the person refuses to sign a notice to appear, the
enforcement officer shall also inform the person that, notwithstanding his or
her refusal to sign the notice, he or she is obligated by law to appear at the
time and place indicated in the citation or to previously compromise and settle
the complaint in the manner hereafter provided, and that failure to do so will
result not only in the forfeiture of the security provided but will also cause
the court to notify the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles of his or her failure to
appear which will result in the suspension of driving privileges in the state
and that a copy of the order of suspension will also be sent to the equivalent
authority of the person’s home state, in accordance with I.C. 9-30-3-8(b) and
(c); or else.
         (c)   The enforcement officer shall accompany the offender to the
nearest U.S. postal service receptacle and see that the offender mails to the
Clerk of the County Superior Court: a copy of the citation with a signed
admission of guilt; and a check or money order in the amount of fine requested,
as determined pursuant to §
34.12 below, plus court costs; thus compromising and settling the complaint in
accordance with §
34.13(A)(2).
      (3)   If the person is a nonresident of the state, or is a resident of
the state but refuses to sign a notice to appear in court, and the offense
charged is of a kind other than a moving traffic offense required to be
reported to the State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the enforcement officer
shall before releasing the person accompany the person to the office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, where the person shall be released upon either:
         (a)   Depositing with the Clerk-Treasurer a security as guarantee for
appearance, the security being a deposit of cash, traveler’s check or other
valuable securities or property acceptable to the Clerk-Treasurer and at least
equal in value to the amount of fine requested in the complaint exclusive of
costs which could be imposed by the court were the person to appear to answer
and be convicted, for which security the Clerk-Treasurer shall provide the
person with a proper receipt and shall make an understanding and agreement with
the person that should he or she fail to appear to answer the charge or fail to
compromise and settle the complaint before the appearance as hereafter
provided, the security thus deposited will be forfeit in favor of the town and
in settlement of the complaint, but will be fully refunded or restored to the
person if he or she does appear at the place and time prescribed or does
previously compromise and settle the complaint; or
         (b)   Compromising and settling the complaint at the time in the
manner provided by §
34.13 below.
   (C)   However, if the office of the Clerk-Treasurer is not open for business
at the time the citation is served, the enforcement officer, in lieu of the
above procedure, shall accompany the person to the nearest U.S. postal service
receptacle and shall supply the person with a stamped envelope addressed to the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall ascertain that the person deposits
agreement of the type described in division (B)(3)(a) above, or else his or her
copy of the citation and an amount of payment necessary to compromise and
settle the complaint in accordance with §
34.13, and the enforcement officer shall thereupon release the person from any
further detention.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-6)
§ 34.07 CONDITIONAL CITATION OR OFFENSE WITH CONDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever any
enforcement provision of this code stipulates that: a person cited for
violation of the enforcement provision is allowed some definite period of time
to correct the violation and comply with the enforcement provision before being
subject to any penalty; or the person cited for the violation is entitled to an
administrative appeal or investigatory hearing before any administrative
officer, board or similar entity to determine whether the citation is valid and
justified; then the citation or written notice attached thereto shall, as the
case may be, state the period of time permitted for compliance or the procedure
to be followed to exercise the right to the administrative appeal or
investigatory hearing, and the person shall not be required to execute a notice
to appear in court, nor shall the time period permitted for compromise and
settlement of the complaint under §
34.13 below commence until, as appropriate: the time period allowed for
compliance has elapsed, and it is found that the person has not complied; the
person has waived the right to administrative appeal or investigatory hearing,
or has failed to invoke and exercise that right within any applicable time
period; or the administrative appeal proceeding or investigatory hearing has
been conducted and has affirmed the citation.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-7)
§ 34.08 WARNING INSTEAD OF OFFICIAL CITATION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
34.02, if any enforcement officer has cause to believe that a person has
violated or is violating an enforcement provision of this code, but also has
cause to believe that the person is of law-abiding character and has not
knowingly, wantonly or repeatedly violated the provision, and the violation is
a minor violation not posing imminent jeopardy to life, limb, property or the
public welfare, the enforcement officer, at his or her discretion, may issue a
warning instead of an official citation.
   (B)   The warning shall inform the person that he or she is in violation of
an enforcement provision and the enforcement officer shall order the person to
forthwith cease or correct the violation. At the discretion of the enforcement
officer, the warning may be either an informal verbal warning or a formal
written warning.
   (C)   A formal written warning shall be issued on the same form ordinarily
used for an official citation of the offense committed, but all copies thereof
shall be clearly marked “Warning Only”. Issuance of a warning shall not require
the offender to pay any fine or compromise and settlement, nor to appear in
court. However, if a formal written warning is issued, a copy shall be kept on
file for at least one year in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and the office
of the enforcement officer.
   (D)   The issuance of a warning shall in no way bar the subsequent issuance
of an official citation for the same offense if it should later be determined
that the offender in fact did knowingly or wantonly violate the enforcement
provision, is a repeat offender, or has failed to comply with the warning
order.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-8)
§ 34.09 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5-1, no citation for the violation
of any enforcement provision of this code shall be issued and served if more
than two years has elapsed since the alleged violation has occurred.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-9)
§ 34.10 FORM OF CITATION AND SUMMONS; TRAFFIC OFFENSES; OTHER OFFENSES.
   The form of citation and summons used for an ordinance violation shall be in
accordance with this section, as appropriate to the nature of the violation.
   (A)   Traffic offenses: in all cases where a citation is issued and served
for the violation of an ordinance constituting a moving traffic offense or a
nonmoving traffic offense required by law or regulation to be reported to the
State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the form of complaint and summons
prescribed by I.C. 9-30-3-6 shall be used for the purpose of issuing the
citation; provided, however, that the enforcement officer shall clearly
indicate in the space provided on a form that the violation charged is a
violation of a town ordinance and not of state law, and provided further that
in that section of the form dealing with “Court Actions and Other Orders” and
in that division thereof concerning the finding of the court, the enforcement
officer shall delete the word “state” and substitute the word “town” so that
the form shall read “judgment for the town” rather than “judgment for the
state”, in the event that the form has not been already so modified and
preprinted.
   (B)   In all other cases where a citation is issued and served for violation
of an enforcement provision of this code, and in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5-
1, the form of complaint and summons prescribed by I.C. 9-30-3-6 may be used
for the purpose of issuing the citation, subject to the same way stipulations
and modifications as when the form is used for a traffic offense as described
above. However, if the traffic citation form is not deemed suitable and
convenient for use with respect to any other enforcement provision, the chief
officer of the department or other agency responsible for enforcement may
prescribe an alternative form of complaint and summons to be used for issuing
the citation; provided that this alternative form of complaint and summons
shall consist of at least four copies as required for the administration of §
34.11, and that the form shall be examined and approved by the Town Attorney
who shall ascertain that it is of proper legal form and satisfies all
necessities for judicial processing in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the court for filing of ordinance violation complaints, and that
it meets all administrative requirements as stipulated in this chapter or in
the particular enforcement provision to which it pertains.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-10)
§ 34.11 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ON ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   (A)   Whenever a citation is issued for violation of any enforcement
provision of this code, the enforcement officer issuing the citation shall
provide one copy thereof to the offender, including or accompanied by the
notices as prescribed in §
34.07 and §
34.13, as appropriate; shall retain one copy for the records of his or her own
department or agency; and as soon after issuance as possible shall deliver all
other copies to the Clerk-Treasurer for the purpose of administering the
further provision of this section.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall examine each citation so received and shall
determine from the records available whether or not the person charged with the
violation has previously been convicted of or has admitted guilt to a violation
of the same provision or of a substantially similar provision of any ordinance
in effect prior to the implementation of this code, and shall note this
information on the citation for the information of the court, and shall
accordingly fix or adjust, as may be necessary, the amount of fine to be
requested in the complaint pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-4(e)(1), and in accordance
with §
34.12, if the amount has not been previously determined accurately and entered
in the citation by the enforcement officer issuing the same.
   (C)   The amount of fine so determined shall be entered on the complaint
form by the enforcement officer or by the Clerk-Treasurer in the space
provided, if any, or else shall be clearly noted and firmly attached to the
copies of the complaint to be filed with the court and kept by the Clerk-
Treasurer. Thereupon:
      (1)   If the violation cited in the complaint is a violation of any
enforcement provision other than a moving traffic offense or a nonmoving
traffic offense required by a law or regulation to be reported to the State
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the Clerk-Treasurer shall retain the citation
for the period of time allowed for the offender to compromise and settle the
complaint as provided by §
34.13; and if the complaint is not compromised and settled within that period
of time, the Clerk-Treasurer shall as soon as possible thereafter tender the
complaint for prosecution in accordance with §
34.14; or
      (2)   If the violation cited in the complaint is a violation of an
enforcement provision constituting a moving or nonmoving traffic offense
required by law or regulation to be reported to the State Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith tender the complaint for filing
with the court in accordance with §
34.14.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-11)
§ 34.12 PROCEDURE FOR FIXING REQUESTED FINE.
   (A)   When an enforcement officer issues and serves a citation, other than a
warning citation, for the violation of any enforcement provision, he or she
shall if practicable determine from the records available the status of the
person under this section and shall determine and fix a fine to be requested in
accordance with the provisions of this section, and shall enter the amount of
the fine on the copy of the citation given to the offender or on a written
attachment thereto and also on all other copies of the citation.
   (B)   However, if it is not practicable for the enforcement officer to check
the available records at the time, or if doing so would require detaining the
person cited for an unreasonable period of time, the enforcement officer may
inquire of the person being cited if he or she has previously been convicted or
has admitted guilt to the same offense being charged (exclusive of similar
offenses committed in other jurisdictions), and the enforcement officer may
rely on the response of the person for the purpose of this section until a time
when the available records can be consulted by the enforcement officer
inaccurate information as to his or her previous convictions or admissions of
guilt, the enforcement officer or the Clerk-Treasurer shall adjust the fine
requested to accord with the provisions of this section, and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall mail to the offender written notice of the adjustment.
   (C)   The amount of fine to be requested in the complaint shall be
determined in the following manner:
      (1)   If any provision of this code establishes a fixed penalty for
violation of the provision or of a related provision, then the amount of fine
requested in the complaint shall be the fixed amount so specified; however, if
no fixed amount is specified but a minimum and maximum penalty are provided;
then
      (2)   (a)   If the violation is a first offense against the provision,
the fine requested in the complaint shall be the minimum penalty so established
or $1, whichever is greater;
         (b)   If the violation is a second offense in violation of the same
provision, then the fine requested in the complaint shall be the minimum
penalty so established plus 50% of the difference between the maximum penalty
provided for violation of the provision and the minimum penalty;
         (c)   If the violation is a third or subsequent offense in violation
of the same provision, then the fine requested in the complaint shall be the
maximum penalty provided for violation of the provision.
   (D)   However, should any person commit two or more separate offenses
against any one enforcement provision by virtue of any singular and
substantially simultaneous act or circumstance, and the singular and
simultaneous act or circumstance is the person’s first or second instance of
committing any offense against the particular provision, then each separate
offense shall be severally treated as a first offense or a second offense, as
the case may be, for the purpose of fixing a requested fine for each offense in
accordance with this section, irrespective of the other offenses concurrently
committed.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-12)
§ 34.13 COMPROMISE AND SETTLEMENT OF COMPLAINT WITHOUT TRIAL.
   (A)   Any person who has been cited for violation of any enforcement
provision of this code, whether or not having signed a notice to appear in
court, shall have a right to compromise and settle the complaint without trial
or appearance in court in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   If the offense cited is other than a moving or nonmoving traffic
offense of the kind described in §
34.11(C)(1), the offender may compromise and settle the complaint in accordance
with the provisions of the following notice, which shall be imprinted on or
attached to the copy of the citation provided to the person cited:
      “You have the right to appear in court at the place and time indicated,
either in person or by attorney, to answer and be tried in the cause of the
violation cited in the complaint and summons. However, if you do not wish to
appear in court and be tried, you may settle the complaint by either delivering
during regular business hours or mailing your copy of the citation and payment
of the stipulated fine to: Office of the Clerk-Treasurer, Town of North Salem,
North Salem Town Hall, North Salem, Indiana 46165. The amount of fine owing
depends on the nature of the violation, and may depend on whether or not you
have previously been convicted or have admitted guilt to the same offense, and
is determined in accordance with § 34.12, a copy of which is available for
public inspection at the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer. If the amount of fine
was not determined at the time the citation was served, this information may be
obtained by contacting the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer. Payment of the fine
must be received within five days, exclusive of weekends and legal holidays,
following the date of the issuance and service of the citation; after such
time, the complaint will have been filed with the Clerk of the Court for
docketing and trial. If paying in person, payment may be made in cash,
traveler’s check, money order, or certified check; if paying by mail, please
remit only a money order or certified check payable to the Town of North Salem
in the exact amount of the fine. Settlement of the procedure constitutes a
waiver of trial and an admission of guilt having the same effect as an adverse
judgment of a court; however, no fees or costs in addition to the fine will be
assessed whereas if you choose to appear in court and are convicted,
substantial fees and court costs will be assessed by the court in addition to
the fine imposed. Settlement of the complaint in this manner also discharges
your obligation under any notice to appear in court which you may have signed,
and if you were required to deposit any security as bond for appearance, such
security will be returned to you.”
      (2)   If the offense cited is a moving or no-moving traffic offense of
the kind described in §
34.11(C)(2), the offender may compromise and settle the complaint in the manner
prescribed by I.C. 34-28-5-4, and the following notice and compromise execution
form or a substantially similar notice and form serving the same purpose as may
be prescribed by the court or other competent authority shall be imprinted on
or attached to the copy of the citation provided to the person cited:
      “You have a right to appear in court at the place and time indicated to
answer and be tried in the cause of the traffic ordinance violation described
in the citation. Unless the court subsequently orders and notifies you to make
a personal appearance pursuant to I.C. 9-30-2-5(g), you may make such
appearance either in person or by attorney or, alternatively, if you do not
wish to appear in court and be tried you may instead of such appearance and in
accordance with I.C. 34-28-5-4 settle the complaint any time prior to the date
of the scheduled court appearance by delivering or mailing your copy of the
citation and this notice, with a signed admission of guilt as provided below
and as required by law, accompanied by payment in the total amount of fine,
fees, and costs owing as hereafter indicated to: Clerk of Hendricks County,
Superior Court No. 2, Box 599, Danville, Indiana 46122 in person, payment may
be made in cash, traveler’s checks, money order or certified check; if paying
by mail, please send only a money order or certified check in the exact amount
of fine and fees owing; money orders or checks should be made payable to the
Clerk of the Court for Hendricks Co. Please be advised the signature of the
admission of guilt and payment of the fine and costs constitutes a waiver of
trial and has the same effect as an adverse judgment of the Court were you to
appear and be tried, and that the Indiana Commissioner of Motor Vehicles (and
the equivalent authority of the state in which your driver’s license was issued
if you are not an Indiana resident) will be notified of your admission of guilt
to the violation. Settlement of the complaint in the manner set forth in this
notice discharges your obligation under any notice to appear in court which you
may have signed, and if you have been required to deposit any security as bond
for appearance, such security will be returned to you.”
STATEMENT OF FINE AND COSTS
Town of North Salem Traffic Citation Number _________________
Name/Address of Person to Whom Issued
________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Offense Committed
___________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
FINE (amount prescribe by ordinance)                         $______________
STATE DOCKET FEE [I.C. 33-37-4-2]                          $______________
COUNTY DOCKET FEE [I.C. 33-37-4-2]                      $______________
MUNICIPAL PROSECUTOR’S FEE [I.C. 33-37-4-2]               $______________
MOTOR VEHICLE FEE [I.C. 9-29-1-1 et seq.]                  $______________
JUDICIAL FEE [I.C. 33-37-4-2]                               $______________
TOTAL FEE AND COSTS OWING)                           $______________
ADMISSION OF GUILT
I undersigned do hereby admit to have committed the offense described and
stipulated in the attached traffic citation:
______________________________________
(sign full name)
   (B)   The Clerk of the Court shall every month pay to the Clerk-Treasurer
the amount of fines and fees owing to the town and so collected by the Clerk,
in the same manner as other judgments of the court entered in favor of the town
for the violation of its ordinances, as stipulated by §
34.16, and by law.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-13)
§ 34.14 FILING AND PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION COMPLAINT.
   (A)   When a citation has been issued for violation of an enforcement
provision of this code and the violation is a traffic offense as described in §
34.11(C)(2), or is some other kind of offense and the time period allowed for
compromise and settlement of the complaint as provided by §
34.13(A)(1) and §
34.07 has elapsed, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver a copy of the complaint
and summons to the Town Attorney, who shall file the complaint in the name of
the town with the Clerk of the County Superior Court or other court of
competent jurisdiction, and prosecute the complaint in accordance with I.C. 34-
28-5 and applicable rules of the court.
   (B)   However, the Town Attorney may prescribe a different procedure for
filing the complaint with respect to any class of violation if he or she deems
an alternative procedure more suitable and expedient. For the services and
functions of the Town Attorney as provided in this section, the court, upon
conviction of the offender, shall assess as part of the judgment in favor of
the town, and in addition to any fine imposed, a municipal prosecutor’s fee in
the amount prescribed by I.C. 33-37-4-2. The prosecutor’s fee shall be assessed
whether or not the Town Attorney actually makes a personal appearance at the
trial of the cause of the complaint.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-14)
§ 34.15 APPEARANCE FOR DEFENDANT AND FOR THE TOWN.
   (A)   Unless the court pursuant to I.C. 9-30-2-5(g) or other applicable law
orders otherwise, the defendant in the trial for violation of an enforcement
provision may appear in person or by attorney, and an appearance by attorney
satisfies any notice to appear signed by the defendant.
   (B)   Appearance on behalf of the town may be made by the Town Attorney
personally or, with his or her consent and approval, any of the following
persons shall be competent to appear for and represent the town:
      (1)   Another attorney retained by the Town Attorney for that purpose, or
who is retained as counsel by any board, commission or similar authority
responsible for the enforcement of the enforcement provision;
      (2)   The enforcement officer originally issuing the citation for the
violation;
      (3)   The chief executive or other chief officer of the department or
other agency responsible for the enforcement; or
      (4)   A member of the Town Council.
   (C)   However, if any person described in divisions (B)(2), (3) or (4) above
is designated to appear for the town, the Town Attorney, as necessary, shall
advise the person on the procedures of the court and the evidence it will be
necessary to present in order to sustain the charge of the violation.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-15)
§ 34.16 PAYMENT OF FINES, OTHER COSTS AND PROSECUTOR’S FEE.
   (A)   Whenever a court enters judgment in favor of the town in the trial of
an ordinance violation complaint, the court shall fine the violator in an
amount not exceeding the penalty requested in the complaint. However, the judge
of the court shall have discretion to impose a lesser fine than that requested
if, in the judgment of the court, there exist extenuating or mitigating
circumstances warranting a lesser penalty; but if the judgment is entered by
the Clerk of the court upon waiver of trial and admission of guilt by the
defendant, the Clerk does not have discretion to impose a lesser penalty unless
so ordered by the judge.
   (B)   The court shall also tax and assess as part of the judgment in favor
of the town the municipal prosecutor’s fee as prescribed by §
34.14 and by law, and any other costs incurred and stipulated by the town in
connection with the filing and prosecution of the complaint and which are
recoverable pursuant to I.C. 33-37-7-6. In accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 33-35-3-2(f), the Clerk of the court shall each month pay to the Clerk-
Treasurer all fines, costs and that portion of the municipal prosecutor’s fees
owing to the town and collected by the court, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
allocate and deposit the monies in accordance with §
34.19 below.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-16)
§ 34.17 RECORD OF CONVICTION OR COMPROMISE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever a person is charged with the violation of an enforcement
provision and either compromises and settles the complaint pursuant to §
34.13, or is found guilty by a court in accordance with §
34.16, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make and keep a record of the compromise or
conviction, organized for reference by name of the offender and according to
any other means of identification which the Clerk-Treasurer deems advisable for
the purpose of administering §
34.12.
   (B)   The record constitutes presumptive evidence of guilt of any violation
whether or not the offender has made any admission to a violation for purposes
of fixing a fine pursuant to §
34.12, and no offender shall be permitted to plead for a lesser fine than any
subsequently requested on the advent of a repeat violation on the grounds that
he or she was not in fact guilty of any prior offense which he or she has
compromised or of which he or she has had judgment entered against him or her
by a court.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-17)
§ 34.18 FURTHER OR COLLATERAL ACTIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT OR RECOVERY.
   (A)   The compromise and settlement of a complaint for the violation of any
enforcement provision of this code pursuant to §
34.13, or an action upon the complaint initiated and prosecuted pursuant to §
34.14, and any fines, fees or costs imposed and collected in connection
therewith are in consequence of the penal violation of the respective
enforcement provision per se, and the compromise and settlement of any
complaint or judgment of a court in favor of the town does not prevent the town
from initiating and pursuing any or all of the following further or collateral
civil actions:
      (1)   An action to recover costs incurred by the town to bring any
property or the use thereof into compliance with an enforcement provision
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2;
      (2)   An action seeking a civil injunction against a violator to ensure
current or future enforcement of and compliance with any enforcement provision
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4;
      (3)   An action to recover damages to town property or any other
pecuniary loss to the town arising out of the violation of any enforcement
provisions; and/or
      (4)   An action to recover stipulated costs incurred by the town in any
action described in divisions (A)(1), (2) or (3) above, including, but not
limited to, attorney’s fees and any filing fees paid by the town in any like
action pursuant to I.C. 33-37-7-6.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney if so instructed by the Town
Council to initiate and prosecute any further actions as the case may warrant.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-18)
§ 34.19 ALLOCATION AND DEPOSIT OF RECEIPTED FINES, FEES AND COSTS.
   When the Clerk-Treasurer for violation of an enforcement provision receives
payment of any fines, fees or costs pursuant to §
34.13,
34.16 or
34.18(A)(1) or (4) above; or possesses on behalf of the town any forfeited
security deposit as undischarged bond for appearance pursuant to §
34.06(B)(2)(a) or (B)(3)(a) above; or receives payment of recovered damages or
loss pursuant to §
34.18(A)(3), and to the extent that the payment does not escheat to an
insurance company which has previously made compensatory payment to the town;
the monies or property so received shall be administered and allocated by the
Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the following provisions of this section:
   (A)   In the case of monies paid as fines for penal violations of any
enforcement provisions, the monies shall be deposited in the General Fund
unless the particular enforcement provision stipulates that any fines be
deposited in some other designated fund;
   (B)   In the case of any forfeited security deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall record the complaint as having been compromised and settled upon taking
possession thereof, and shall make disposition of the possessed security as
provided in this division (B); If the deposit has been made and forfeited
pursuant to §
34.06(B)(3)(a), and:
      (1)   The security is a deposit of cash or a directly depositable cash
instrument such as a traveler’s check or certified check, then the Clerk-
Treasurer shall allocate and deposit the possessed security as though it were
an ordinary payment of the fine owing, in the same manner as provided in
division (A) above, and notwithstanding the fact that the cash value of the
security deposit may exceed the amount of fine originally requested in the
complaint; or if;
      (2)   The security deposit is a negotiable instrument such as a bond,
note or debenture, having a convertible cash value but which is not directly
depositable, the Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed to convert the instrument, or
may sell the instrument on the securities market for the price as it will
bring, and the net proceeds from the conversion or sale after deduction of any
applicable sale commissions or transaction fees shall be allocated and
deposited as though they were an ordinary payment of the fine owing, in the
same manner as provided in division (A) above, and notwithstanding the fact
that the net proceeds may exceed the amount of fine originally requested in the
complaint; provided further, however, that if the security is an investment
instrument of the kind which it is lawful for the town to own and hold as an
investment of public funds pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-1 et seq. or any other law
authorizing the investment of public funds, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
determine that it would be of greater financial advantage and benefit to the
town, the Clerk-Treasurer may keep the security as an investment asset of the
town instead of converting or selling the security, and the principal amount
thereof shall be allocated and credited to the appropriate fund or if funds to
which a cash receipt would be allocated and deposited pursuant to division (A)
above, and the interest of other earnings therefrom shall be allocated and
deposited in the fund or funds as would ordinarily be the case of other town
investments; or it
      (3)   The security deposit is any other valuable personal or real
property, the Clerk-Treasurer shall provide for the same to be offered for sale
as surplus property of the town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-1-
11, and the net proceeds of the sale after deduction of the costs of conducting
the sale shall be allocated and deposited as though they were an ordinary
payment of the fine owing in the same manner as provided in division (A) above,
and notwithstanding the fact that the net proceeds of the sale may exceed the
amount of fine originally requested in the complaint; or
   (C)   In the case of payment of an amount attributable to the town’s portion
of the municipal prosecutor’s fees owing and paid by the Clerk of the Court
pursuant to applicable statute, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit that amount
in the General Fund.
   (D)   In the case of a payment of stipulated costs recovered pursuant to §§
34.16, §
34.18(B)(1) or (B)(4) of this chapter, the payments shall be allocated and
deposited to the fund or funds from which the stipulated costs themselves were
originally paid or obligated.
   (E)   In the case of a payment for recovery of damage or loss occasioned by
the violation of an enforcement provision pursuant to §
34.18(B)(3), any payment shall be proportionally allocated to the fund or funds
from which:
      (1)   Payment will or has been made to repair or replace the damaged
property, or to the General Fund if the property will not be repaired or
replaced; or
      (2)   Any other pecuniary loss has occurred, has or will be debited, or
from which the loss has been or will be made up, if the specific fund or funds
are identifiable; and if not, to the General Fund.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-19)
§ 34.20 FURTHER RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Attorney, the Town Marshal and the chief
officer of any other department, board, commission or similar agency which has
been given responsibility for the administration and enforcement of any
enforcement provision of this code, may stipulate or prescribe any other rules
or procedures, not inconsistent with law, applicable state regulations, court
procedures or the expressed provisions of this chapter, as they may deem
necessary or desirable to promote the orderly, efficient and expeditious
carrying out of their respective enforcement duties; and the rules and
procedures so stipulated and prescribed by those officers shall have the same
effect and force as if they had been expressly adopted and made a part of the
provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 1-3-20)
CHAPTER 35: CIVIL DEFENSE; EMERGENCIES
Section
   
35.01   Definition of civil emergency
   
35.02   Authority; applicability and effect or special powers and regulations
   
35.03   Town Civil Defense Director designated
   
35.04   Duties of Civil Defense Director
   
35.05   Declaration of local civil emergency
   
35.06   Special powers and regulations
   
35.07   Absence or incapacity of Town Council President; succession of powers
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 DEFINITION OF CIVIL EMERGENCY.
   A CIVIL EMERGENCY is defined to be:
   (A)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force
or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute force by three or more persons acting together without authority of
law;
   (B)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including, but not
limited to, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion
within the corporate limits of the town, resulting in the death or injury of
persons or the destruction of property to an extent that extraordinary measures
must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare; or
   (C)   The advent of foreign attack or invasion, or other hostile military or
paramilitary action.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -)
§ 35.02 AUTHORITY; APPLICABILITY AND EFFECT OR SPECIAL POWERS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this act are enacted pursuant to and subject to any
limitations provided by I.C. 10-4-1; pursuant to the general powers of a town
to provide for the public safety, peace and order in accordance with I.C. 36-8-
2; and pursuant to all general and residual powers of a town under I.C. 36-1-3.
   (B)   The special powers and regulations provided herein shall be actualized
and in effect whenever:
      (1)   A general state of civil emergency is declared by the Governor of
the state affecting the area in which the town is located, to the extent that
those special powers or regulations are not inconsistent with the orders of the
Governor or an applicable statewide disaster plan; or
      (2)   A local state of civil emergency is declared by the President of
the Town Council pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29, but those special powers and
regulations shall not remain in effect for more than seven days unless the Town
Council by a majority vote agrees and consents to a further continuance.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -)
§ 35.03 TOWN CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR DESIGNATED.
   The Director of Civil Defense for the town is hereby declared to be the Town
Marshal, who shall serve in that capacity ex officio.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -)
§ 35.04 DUTIES OF CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of Civil Defense designated by §
35.03 shall:
      (1)   Prepare and keep current a civil emergency plan for the town;
      (2)   Communicate in written form a clear and complete statement of the
responsibilities of the departments, agencies and officials of the town
government;
      (3)   Coordinate the civil emergency plans of the town with those of
civil defense agencies of neighboring municipalities, the county and the state;
and
      (4)   Take charge of and coordinate the civil defense efforts and
activities of the town in the advent of an actual civil emergency.
   (B)   The Director of Civil Defense may also develop reciprocal mutual aid
arrangements with other public and private agencies in the state to render or
receive aid in case of disaster too great for one of the parties to the
agreement to deal with unassisted.
   (C)   The mutual aid agreements shall be subject to ratification by the Town
Council.
   (D)   The Civil Defense Director may also recruit and appoint from among the
responsible citizens of the town volunteer civil defense and disaster workers
as he or she shall deem necessary to implement civil defense plans in the event
of a civil emergency, and prescribe duties for those persons.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -)
§ 35.05 DECLARATION OF LOCAL CIVIL EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A local civil emergency may only be declared by the President of the
Town Council by written proclamation, and only if he or she finds that at least
one of the conditions described in §
35.01 prevail in the town.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer,
and shall be widely publicized by the best means available.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -)
§ 35.06 SPECIAL POWERS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a civil emergency is declared by the Governor, or by the
President of the Town Council pursuant to §
35.05 above, the Town Council President as appropriate to the situation and
necessary to safeguard the people of the town, has and may exercise any of the
following powers to:
      (1)   Suspend or modify any administrative regulation or procedure
adopted by town ordinance or resolution, but not a regulation or procedure
required by statute unless the Governor concurrently suspends the operation of
the statute;
      (2)   Assign emergency duties to the officers and employees of the town;
      (3)   Make available the employees, equipment, materials and supplies of
the town, either within or outside of the town, to deal with the emergency or
to assist victims;
      (4)   Prohibit access to or travel within all or parts of the town;
      (5)   Impose a general curfew on the residents of the town, effective at
whatever times and in parts of the town as appropriate to protect the public
safety or restore order;
      (6)   Prohibit the sale, or giving away of alcoholic beverages, or the
consumption thereof in any public place or in a motor vehicle;
      (7)   Prohibit the sale, giving away or possession and carrying in public
of explosive materials or flammable, incendiary materials, including gasoline;
      (8)   Order a general or partial evacuation of the town; and
      (9)   Make other rules, regulations, orders or procedures as may be
necessary, provided that:
         (a)   They are not inconsistent with the orders of the Governor or
regulations of a state agency implementing civil emergency procedures; and
         (b)   They shall be effective only when set forth in writing and filed
in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Any order or regulation imposed by the Town Council President acting
pursuant to this section shall have the full force of law as provided by I.C.
10-14-3-29, and the Town Council President may call on any police agency to
enforce those orders and regulations.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 2013-4, passed 12-5-2013)
§ 35.07 ABSENCE OR INCAPACITY OF TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT; SUCCESSION OF POWERS.
   In the event that the Town Council President is absent or incapacitated
during a civil emergency, the powers incumbent on the Town Council President by
§§
35.05 or
35.06 above shall devolve and may be exercised as follows:
   (A)   First, by the President Pro Tem, of the Town Council;
   (B)   Second, by the remaining members of the Town Council acting jointly;
   (C)   Third, by any remaining Town Council member;
   (D)   Fourth, by the Town Clerk-Treasurer; and
   (E)   Fifth, by the Town Marshal.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-7) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is a penal violation for any person to violate or fail to comply
with any order or regulation promulgated during a civil emergency pursuant to §
35.06 by the Town Council President or by a person authorized pursuant to §
35.07.
   (B)   Any person committing such penal violation shall, upon conviction, be
fined in an amount not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, but each day that a
violation continues is and may be cited and prosecuted as a separate offense if
not otherwise a distinct act and violation.
(1985 Code, § 8-4-8) (Ord. 7C-1985, passed - -)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
36.01   Planning Department
§ 36.01 PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the area planning law as set forth in I.C. 36-
7-4.
   (B)   There shall be established a County Planning Department consisting of
the following:
      (1)   The County Area Plan Commission;
      (2)   The County Area Board of Zoning Appeals, including such additional
divisions as may be established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-901;
      (3)   An executive director; and
      (4)   Staff as the Commission considers necessary.
   (C)   To provide equitable representation of municipal and rural interests
on the Commission, the representation of participating units shall be as
provided in I.C. 36-7-4-200 through 36-7-4-223. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-210,
there shall be established a County Area Plan Commission Advisory Council on
Town Affairs (Advisory Council). A designated Town Council member is hereby
appointed to serve as the representative of the town on the Advisory Council.
In the event that the town is the largest town participating in the Planning
Department, a designee is hereby appointed to serve as a citizen member of the
Commission.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-1995)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND TRASH
      
52.   GENERAL WATER PROVISIONS
      
53.   MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Swimming Pools
   
50.01   General provisions
Utility Charge Adjustments and Administration
   
50.15   Charges based on volumetric water usage; adjustment for leakage
   
50.16   Conditions for leakage adjustment; inspection and repair requirements
   
50.17   Charges based on volumetric water usage; adjustment in case of meter
malfunction
   
50.18   Discontinuation of water service for nonpayment of water or sewer bills
   
50.19   Right of access to property to disconnect water service for nonpayment
of bills
   
50.20   Fee for checks returned for non-sufficient funds
   
50.21   Outstanding bills upon closing or abandonment of account
   
50.22   Moratorium of automatic rate increases
Cross-reference:
   Sewer provisions, see
Chapter 53
   Water provisions, see
Chapter 52
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 50.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Commencing with the 2010 calendar year, only those property owners who
have a swimming pool requiring 1,000 gallons of water or more may once each
year be permitted to fill their swimming pools with water owned by the town
water corporation and not be required to pay the accompanying sewer user fees
by complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The property owners shall notify the town when they are ready to fill
their pool so the Water Department can read the meter prior to and then again
read the meter after the pool has been filled.
      (1)    Pools requiring 1,000 gallons of water or more will be charged the
then “current minimum water rate” per 1,000 gallons for water only.
      (2)   Pool owners will pay the town water corporation the non-refundable
amount determined by the Water Superintendent and/or Clerk-Treasurer in advance
for the amount of water needed to fill their pool.
   (C)   Once the water usage for the filling of the pool has been determined
and paid for, the owners will then pay both water and sewage charges for all
other amounts measured by the water meter for that month.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 7-1-2010; Ord. 2021-6, passed 6-3-2021)
UTILITY CHARGE ADJUSTMENTS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.15 CHARGES BASED ON VOLUMETRIC WATER USAGE; ADJUSTMENT FOR LEAKAGE.
   After December 7, 1982, when a leak occurs in the water system of any given
individual which occasions an excessive water and/or sanitary sewer charge, the
town will adjust the customer’s bill on the following basis, as applicable, and
provided the conditions required under §
50.16 below are met:
   (A)   If the customer has received a water and/or sewage billing for the
three months preceding the leakage, the charge to the customer for the water
and/or sewer service during the month affected by the leakage will be the
average monthly billing for water and/or sewer service over the previous three
months;
   (B)   In the event the customer in question has been receiving water and/or
sewer service for less than three months previously, but has been a customer
for one or two previous billing periods, the adjusted charge shall be based
upon an average of the periods during which the customer has received water
and/or sanitary sewage services; and
   (C)   In the event the customer in question is a beginning customer, the
corrected bill for the period during which the leakage occurred shall be based
upon the first bill for water and/or sewer service issued for the next
succeeding period after the defect has been corrected.
(1985 Code, § 3-9-1) (Ord. 6C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 12-7-1982)
§ 50.16 CONDITIONS FOR LEAKAGE ADJUSTMENT; INSPECTION AND REPAIR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before adjusted charges as provided under §
50.15 shall apply and be granted, the affected customer must comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   The customer must notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the leakage, and
the Clerk-Treasurer will have a town employee inspect the defective water
system and report on the same in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (2)   The customer must correct and/or repair the defect within seven
days of the date the defect is discovered.
   (B)   If the customer fails or refuses to comply with the above conditions,
§
50.15 does not apply and the customer will be required to pay the full amount
of the bills as determined by the reading of the water meter.
(1985 Code, § 3-9-2) (Ord. 6C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 12-7-1982)
§ 50.17 CHARGES BASED ON VOLUMETRIC WATER USAGE; ADJUSTMENT IN CASE OF METER
MALFUNCTION.
   In the event of a malfunction of the town’s water meter, resulting in an
inaccurate record of water used by a customer, then the charge made to the
customer for water and/or sewer for that month shall be computed as provided
under §
50.15(A), (B) or (C), as applicable.
(1985 Code, § 3-9-3) (Ord. 6C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 12-7-1982)
§ 50.18 DISCONTINUATION OF WATER SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT OF WATER OR SEWER
BILLS.
   (A)   If all or any part of a water service or sewer service bill is not
paid in full within 30 days of the due date as stated in the bill, the town
water corporation may discontinue water service to the property for which the
unpaid bill is owing. However, at least 15 days prior to the date when water
service may be discontinued under this section, the fiscal officer of the water
corporation shall mail to the water consumer or property owner, at his or her
last known address, a written notice stating the date on which water service
may be discontinued and the reason therefor, and the person’s right to appeal
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   (1)   If the principal occupant of the affected property is a person
other than the person owing the unpaid water or sewer bill, a copy of the
notice shall also be mailed to the occupant.
      (2)   A person owing an unpaid water or sewer bill may appeal in writing
to the Clerk- Treasurer for an extension of the date when water service would
become subject to discontinuation, setting forth in detail the extraordinary
hardship or other unavoidable circumstances whereby the delinquent bill cannot
be fully paid within the allowed period. The Clerk-Treasurer, acting as the
Hearing Officer for the extension request, may grant or deny the request, in
whole or in part. The Hearing Officer may require partial payment of the
delinquent bill in return for granting an extension.
      (3)   A person owing an unpaid water or sewer bill may appeal the
determination of the Clerk-Treasurer in writing to the Town Council acting in
its capacity as the governing board of the North Salem Water Corporation.
         (a)   The written appeal request shall set forth in detail:
            1.   The extraordinary hardship or other unavoidable circumstances
whereby the delinquent bill cannot be fully paid within the allowed period;
            2.   The specific relief requested; and
            3.   The reason(s) that the person owing an unpaid water or sewer
bill believes that the adverse determination of the Clerk-Treasurer was
arbitrary or capricious.
         (b)   The Town Council shall consider the appeal at its next regularly
scheduled Town Council meeting. Any contemplated discontinuation of water
service shall be deferred pending the determination of the appeal by the Town
Council. The Town Council in its appeal determination may:
            1.   Deny the appeal; or
            2.   Grant the appeal in whole or in part; and
            3.   May require partial payment of the delinquent bill in return
for granting an extension.
         (c)   Upon denial of the appeal the delinquent user shall be given 48
hours notice of the appeal denial prior to the discontinuation of water
service.
(1985 Code, § 3-9-4) (Ord. 6C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 12-7-1982; Ord. 1-
88, passed 5-10-1988; Ord. 1-98, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 2012-4, passed 8-2-2012)
§ 50.19 RIGHT OF ACCESS TO PROPERTY TO DISCONNECT WATER SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT
OF BILLS.
   Whenever water service to any property has become subject to discontinuation
for nonpayment of water or sewer bills as provided in §
50.18, the agents of the town water corporation shall have a right of access at
any reasonable hour to any part of the property as necessary for the purpose of
effectuating the discontinuation of the water service.
(1985 Code, § 3-9-5) (Ord. 6C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 12-7-1982)
§ 50.20 FEE FOR CHECKS RETURNED FOR NON-SUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   (A)   A fee of $20 shall be charged for any check returned to the town water
corporation or sewer corporation for insufficient funds.
   (B)   If any person has a check returned for insufficient funds three times,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall require cash or money orders from that time forward,
for a period of not less than one year.
(Ord. 2-1992, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 50.21 OUTSTANDING BILLS UPON CLOSING OR ABANDONMENT OF ACCOUNT.
   (A)    Any deposit made by a municipal utility user that is abandoned by the
user for a period exceeding 30 days after the utilities are shut off for non-
payment of the amounts owed, the municipal utility shall become the property of
the municipal utility to be applied to any outstanding balance owed by the
delinquent user.
   (B)   It shall further be the responsibility of any municipal utility user
who makes arrangements on their own for the utilities to be shut off to provide
a forwarding address to the Clerk-Treasurer for the return of any deposit due
and owing the user. In the event the user fails to provide a forwarding address
as required within 30 days of the shut off request, any deposit previously made
by the user shall be deemed forfeited to the municipal utility and shall be
paid to the town water fund.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 8-3-2006)
§ 50.22 MORATORIUM OF AUTOMATIC RATE INCREASES.
   In the event the Town Council determines that there are sufficient funds in
the water and/or sewer accounts such that the annual 3% increase in the
respective rates as provided above is not necessary in any given year, the Town
Council may by separate vote of a majority of the Council members choose to
grant a moratorium on the water and/or sewer rate increase for that year.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 10-7-2021)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND TRASH
Section
   
51.01   Collection and disposal
§ 51.01 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   On or before November 15, 1990, and each November 15 following, or on
the biennium if a two-year contract is awarded pursuant to division (C) of this
section, the town will publish and provide bid specifications for garbage and
trash collection and disposal services for all single or double family
dwellings that are residential public utilities users of the town.
   (B)   The bid specifications may also at the discretion of the Town Council
provide for garbage and trash collection and disposal from certain named public
buildings, properties or sites.
   (C)   Upon receipt of bids therefor, the Town Council may award the contract
for the garbage and trash collection and disposal services to the lowest and
most responsive bidder on an annual or biennial basis, with the contract term
to run from January 1 through December 31, 1991, and each following calendar
year or biennium thereafter.
   (D)   All residential single or double family dwelling public utilities
users of the town’s municipal utilities, subject to the provisions under
division (E) below, will be billed a fee for the garbage and trash collection
and disposal services as an additional item on their monthly billings for water
and sewer services, and the delinquency and notice of service discontinuation
policies of 30 and 15 days respectively shall remain the same.
   (E)   Any public utilities users granted an option by the Town Council not
to receive garbage and trash collection and disposal service prior to November
1, 1990, shall have their option continued in full force and effect. However,
no such option shall be granted and the prior procedure therefor is hereby
repealed.
   (F)   The Town Council, by resolution, may set the rate of the monthly fee
for the garbage and trash collection and disposal service on an annual basis
commensurate with the terms of the contract awarded by the town to the
collection and disposal service on or before January 1, 1991, and each January
1 following.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep and maintain a separate account for
receipts and disbursements for the garbage and trash collection and disposal
service. Any surplus in the account may be allocated by the Town Council on a
quarterly basis for general obligations of the town’s municipal sewer utility.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 12-6-1988; Ord. 3-90, passed 11-13-1990)
CHAPTER 52: GENERAL WATER PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Town Council to serve as Board of Trustees for water corporation
   
52.02   Clerk-Treasurer to serve as Clerk and Treasurer for water corporation
   
52.03   Salaries of water corporation personnel
   
52.04   Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund created
   
52.05   Water rates intended to provide reasonable return on investment
   
52.06   Prohibiting private wells used for potable water
Rates and Charges
   
52.15   Connection charges (tap fee) and reconnection charge
   
52.16   Meter deposit charge
   
52.17   Water user charges and surcharges
Rules and Regulations for Connection To and Use of Public Water System
   
52.30   Cross-connection restricted
   
52.31   Reserved
   
52.32   Hazardous users; backflow preventer required
   
52.33   Liability of water customer to maintain private portion of water supply
system
   
52.34   Enforcement procedure; inspections
   
52.35   Discontinuance of water service; enforcement procedure
Declaration of Emergency; Water Usage
   
52.45   Emergency water usage restrictions
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and trash; collection and disposal, see
Chapter 51
   General utility provisions, see
Chapter 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 TOWN COUNCIL TO SERVE AS BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR WATER CORPORATION.
   Effective December 11, 1948, there shall be a Board of Trustees for the
water corporation of the town, to consist of three members, who shall be the
duly elected members of the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 56, passed 11-20-1948; Ord. passed 12-4-1984)
§ 52.02 CLERK-TREASURER TO SERVE AS CLERK AND TREASURER FOR WATER CORPORATION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council shall serve as Clerk and Treasurer
of the town water corporation.
(1985 Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 56, passed 11-20-1948; Ord. passed 12-4-1984)
§ 52.03 SALARIES OF WATER CORPORATION PERSONNEL.
   The salaries and wages of personnel employed by the town water corporation,
and any additional salaries to be paid to the Town Council members and the Town
Clerk-Treasurer for their services as Trustees and as Clerk and Treasurer for
the Water Corporation as provided under §§
52.01 and
52.02, shall be fixed and set forth in the annual town salary ordinance at the
same time and in accordance with the same procedures whereby salaries and wages
of civil town officers and employees are fixed.
(1985 Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 56, passed 11-20-1948; Ord. passed 12-4-1984)
§ 52.04 WATER UTILITY CASH RESERVE FUND CREATED.
   Pursuant to the requirements of I.C. 8-1.5-3-11(b), there is hereby created
a Cash Reserve Fund for the water corporation of the town, into which surplus
earnings of the water corporation, as defined by I.C. 8-1.5-3-11(c), shall be
deposited in monthly amounts as determined by the governing body of the water
corporation. The Town Council may transfer amounts in the Cash Reserve Fund to
the town’s General Fund, as required, in accordance with the stipulations of
I.C. 8-1.5-3-11(d) or 8-1.5-3-11(e).
(1985 Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 56, passed 11-20-1948; Ord. passed 12-4-1984)
§ 52.05 WATER RATES INTENDED TO PROVIDE REASONABLE RETURN ON INVESTMENT.
   (A)   In addition to covering costs described under I.C. 8-1.5-3-8(c) and 8-
1.5-3-8(d), and a return in lieu of property taxes as provided by I.C. 8-1.5-3-
8(g), it is hereby declared by the Town Council that any water rates and
charges hereafter established for the town water corporation should also be
sufficient to provide a reasonable return on the town’s investment in its water
corporation and public water distribution system.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-8(f), the Public Service Commission of the
state shall consider the intent of this section when approving any future rate
requests submitted for the town water corporation.
(1985 Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 56, passed 11-20-1948; Ord. passed 12-4-1984)
§ 52.06 PROHIBITING PRIVATE WELLS USED FOR POTABLE WATER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner within the service area of
the town’s water and sewer utilities, whether within or without the corporate
limits of the town, to keep and maintain a private well for the purpose of
providing potable water to the property.
   (B)   Any private well operated and maintained by the property owner within
the service area of the town’s water and sewer utilities may only be used for
external non-potable water uses such as gardening, lawn watering and washing of
cars. Such private wells must still comply with the provisions of §
52.30 as they relate to the prevention of cross-connections between the private
well and the town’s water supply.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 4-1-2021)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 CONNECTION CHARGES (TAP FEE) AND RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   For each five-eighths-inch meter service installed, or reconnected
following a period of construction, there shall be a tap-on fee of no less than
$1,500, so that there could be a total of $3,000 in tap-on fees for residential
construction that converts a single residence lot to a double residence. For
all extraordinary tap-ons greater than the usual circumstance, such as but not
necessarily limited to the boring of a street, the tap-on fee shall be
increased in order to reflect the town’s actual cost in effecting the
connection.
   (B)   There shall be a charge for reconnection of service, following its
disconnection for reason of nonpayment of water bills, in the amount of $50.
   (C)   Upon reconnection of service the owner occupied public utility user
shall have a total of $50 on deposit with the public utilities for water and
sewer deposits and renter occupied public utility users shall have a total of
$100 on deposit with the public utilities for water and sewer.
(1985 Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 1979-5, passed - -; Ord. 1-88, passed 5-10-1988;
Ord. 2-95, passed 9-12-1995; Ord. 1-98, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 2014-5, passed 5-
1-2014; Ord. 2022-8, passed 1-5-2023)
§ 52.16 METER DEPOSIT CHARGE.
    The water meter deposit charge for owner occupied water utility users shall
be the sum of $25. The water meter deposit charge for renter occupied water
users shall be the sum of $50.
(1985 Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 5C-1984, passed 11-29-1984; Ord. 1-88, passed 5-10-
1988; Ord. 1-98, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 52.17 WATER USER CHARGES AND SURCHARGES.
    There are established for the use of and service rendered by the waterworks
system of the town the following rates and charges based on the use of water
supplied by the waterworks system:
   (A)   Minimum monthly charges (metered portion):
 
Size Meter                          Charge/Month Minimum
5/8- and 3/4-inch meters            $12.50
For the first 1,000 gallons or less
 
   (B)   Metered rates per month:
 
Water Consumed         Rate per 1,000 Gallons
For each 1,000 gallons $11.25
 
   (C)   Fire suppression system (overhead sprinkler system): for each such
system there shall be a flat fee as follows:
 
Wet system $50 per month
Dry system $12.50 per month
 
   (D)   Public fire protection rate: For each water utility user there shall
be a flat fee of $3.50 per month.
   (E)   Water meter surcharge: For each water utility user there shall be a
flat fee of $7.40 per month. The monthly water meter surcharge provided in this
division shall continue to accrue during the period of time that an
intermittent water user shall have their water discontinued.
   (F)   All water utility users whose properties are located outside the
corporate limits of the town shall be assessed a surcharge of 15% to be
calculated as 15% of the monthly charges assessed for the water usage by the
property which surcharge shall be assessed and paid on a monthly basis.
   (G)   (1)   Commencing with the January, 2020, billing there shall be a
monthly waste disposal fee surcharge added to each sewer utility user's bill in
the amount of $7.50.
      (2)   Each of these surcharges shall be reviewed annually by the Town
Council to determine what adjustment(s), if any, need to be made in order to
maintain the financial integrity of the municipal utilities.
   (H)   The metered portion of the minimum monthly charge as well as the
metered rate per 1,000 gallons shall automatically be raised 3% per annum
commencing January 1, 2022 and each year following unless otherwise ordered by
the Town Council by separate vote.
   (I)   Intermittent water user disconnect and reconnect fees. A disconnect
fee of $50 shall be charged to the intermittent water user’s account upon
request for a temporary disconnection of the water service to the user’s
property. Likewise upon reconnection of the water service at the request of the
intermittent water user, a reconnect fee of $50 shall be charged to the water
user’s account.
(1985 Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 1979-5, passed - -; Ord. 2009-1, passed 1-8-2009;
Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-6-2014; Ord. 2014-6, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2016-1, passed
4-7-2016; Ord. 2018-4, passed 12-6-2018; Ord. 2019-3, passed 12-5-2019; Ord.
2019-5, passed 12-5-2019; Ord. 2020-2, passed 5-21-2020; Ord. 2020-3, passed 5-
21-2020; Ord. 2020-4, passed 10-1-2020; Ord. 2021-7, passed 10-7-2021; Ord.
2022-5, passed 6-2-2022; Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-10-2022)
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CONNECTION TO AND USE OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.30 CROSS-CONNECTION RESTRICTED.
   Except as provided by §
52.31 below, no person may establish or maintain, nor permit to be established
or maintain, any cross-connection between two otherwise separate systems, one
of which contains potable water from the town water system, and the other water
from a private source or of unknown and questionable safety, or steam, gases or
chemicals, and whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(1985 Code, § 3-5-1) (Ord. 9C-1984, passed 12-4-1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 RESERVED.
§ 52.32 HAZARDOUS USERS; BACKFLOW PREVENTER REQUIRED.
   (A)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users must install and maintain a reduced-pressure-principle backflow preventer
in the main water service line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
   (B)   A back-pressure check valve of an approved type may also be required
by the water corporation to be placed in any service pipes which are directly
connected to boilers or other hot water fixtures likely to cause a back-
pressure, and the water customer shall be liable for any damages caused to
meters or any other parts of the public water supply system by virtue of
failure to install or maintain the check valve when required.
(1985 Code, § 3-5-3) (Ord. 9C-1984, passed 12-4-1984)
§ 52.33 LIABILITY OF WATER CUSTOMER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PORTION OF WATER SUPPLY
SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be the sole responsibility of each water customer of the town
water corporation to adequately maintain all portions of the water supply
system which are on the premises owned or occupied by the customer and which
lie between the publicly owned water supply main and any water outlet or other
point of usage of the water by the customer, with the exception only of the
water meter owned by the town water corporation.
   (B)   This responsibility includes any main water service line running to
the customer’s building or residence from the public distribution system, and
all parts of the plumbing system, appliances, equipment or fixtures installed
within the building or residence.
   (C)   The town water corporation or the town shall accept no liability for
any damages caused by leakage or any other factors resulting from the failure
of the customer to maintain his or her system in proper order as required under
this section.
   (D)   In the event that leakage or other failure is such as to cause or
threaten damage to adjacent properties or premises, reduction of water pressure
in the public distribution system below normal standards, excessive loss of
water from the public supply, or contamination of the public water supply, the
water corporation may discontinue service to the customer’s premises until the
condition is corrected.
   (E)   If any significant leakage has occurred in the main water service line
between the public distribution system and the customer’s water meter, the
superintendent of the water corporation may make a reasonable estimate of the
quantity of water drawn from the public supply by virtue of the leakage, and
the water corporation may bill the customer for that quantity of water at the
normally applicable rates.
   (F)   In the event any repair work is required to be done by a private
property owner/water utility user in compliance with this section, the property
owner/water utility user shall give notice to the Superintendent of the Water
Utility so that oversight and inspection of the repair work can be done in
order to ensure that the repairs are completed in a safe and workmanlike
manner. Any contractor utilized for the purposes of such repairs shall be
licensed and bonded and subject to the overall supervision of the
Superintendent.
   (G)   In the event any repair work is required to be done by a private
property owner/water utility user in compliance with this section which
necessitates a street cut for the purpose of accomplishing the repairs, the
cost of the street cut shall be borne by the town/water utility and not the
private property owner/water utility user.
(1985 Code, § 3-5-4) (Ord. 9C-1984, passed 12-4-1984; Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-5-
2018)
§ 52.34 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; INSPECTIONS.
   The town shall cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the
public water system where a condition not in compliance with this chapter is
deemed possible. The frequency of inspections shall be established by the town,
based on the potential health hazards involved. Upon presentation of
credentials, a representative of the water corporation shall have a right of
entry at any reasonable time to make an inspection as provided by this section.
On request, the owner, lessee or occupant must furnish the water corporation
with any pertinent information regarding the piping systems on the property.
Refusal of access or refusal to provide the requested pertinent information
shall be deemed evidence that a violation exists on the property.
(1985 Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 9C-1984, passed 12-4-1984)
§ 52.35 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE; ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The town water corporation is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of §§
52.30 through
52.33 exists, and to take other precautionary measures deemed necessary to
eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
   (B)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to the property or
premises shall not be restored until the violation has been eliminated in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   However, in an emergency wherein a violation is deemed to immediately
endanger public health and safety, disconnection of water service may be made
immediately without advance notice to the consumer if a written finding as to
the immediate danger is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and delivered to the
consumer’s premises; the consumer shall be given opportunity for a hearing
within ten days of the emergency discontinuance.
(1985 Code, § 3-5-6) (Ord. 9C-1984, passed 12-4-1984)
DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; WATER USAGE
§ 52.45 EMERGENCY WATER USAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council President has the authority to determine when a water
emergency exists and the authority to issue specific water usage restrictions,
detailing the specific restriction activity and any time of day restrictions.
The restrictions imposed by that declaration shall continue until the emergency
declaration is vacated by the Town Council President. When a water emergency is
declared, it shall be a violation of this section for any person or entity
using water provided by the town water utility to cause or allow the use of
water in violation of the restriction which has been set forth.
   (B)    When a water emergency is declared, a notice of the declaration which
contains the specific restrictions shall be posted in at least three places,
including the Town Hall, the North Salem State Bank and the town website. This
notification shall also be provided to a newspaper of general circulation in
the county. Penalties for violations of the restrictions may not be imposed
until two days after the notification has been posted pursuant to this section
or the individual has been personally notified of the restrictions, whichever
comes first. Thereafter, all of the provisions of this section relating to
water restrictions, water emergency and fines and penalties shall be in full
force and effect. The notification procedures for the lifting of the water
usage restrictions shall be the same as those above for the imposition of the
restrictions.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 4-2-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
52.45 is punishable by a fine of $50 for each day the water utility user is in
violation. Section
52.45 may be enforced by the issuance of citations by the town’s water utility
personnel or by the town’s Police Department personnel.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 4-2-2009)
CHAPTER 53: MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM
Section
Organization, Finance and Administration
   
53.01   Authority to establish sewage works
   
53.02   Sewer works construction bonds (1981 series); authority to issue bonds;
maximum interest rate; maturity
   
53.03   Sewage works construction bonds (1981 series); option to register;
transfer of registered bonds; exchange for coupon bonds
   
53.04   Sewage works construction bonds (1981 series); disposition of sale
proceeds; investment
   
53.05   Sewage works construction bonds (1981 series); early redemption; notice
   
53.06   Outstanding bonds; establishment of sewage works revenues
   
53.07   Operation and Maintenance Fund
   
53.08   Sinking Fund
   
53.09   Sewage Works Improvement Fund
   
53.10   Separation or combining of sewage works funds
   
53.11   Revenues; accounting; annual report to bondholders
   
53.12   Requirement to impose equitable rates and charges; covenant with
bondholders
   
53.13   Right of town to issue additional sewage works bonds; conditions and
restrictions
   
53.14   Further covenants with bondholders for administration, operation and
maintenance of sewage system
   
53.15   Bonds held by Farmers’ Home Administration; additional requirements
   
53.16   Technical bond provisions incorporated by reference and saved
Sewer System Rates and Charges
   
53.25   Definitions
   
53.26   General imposition of sewer use rates and charges
   
53.27   Power to impose surcharges based on strength and character of sewage;
prohibition of harmful wastes
   
53.28   New sewer connections; permit and inspection fee and tap-on charge
   
53.29   Basic per-customer charges; based on metered water usage; and surcharge
   
53.30   Certain commercial/industrial users; treatment surcharge; reports of
sewage strength
   
53.31   Annual review of rates and surcharges; proportional share by EPA user
classes; reports to EPA
   
53.32   Sewer charge billing procedure; liability for sewer billings; billing
when multiple users on single water meter
   
53.33   Sewer billing deposit imposed
   
53.34   Refund of sewer billing deposit; application to unpaid sewer bills
   
53.35   Unclaimed sewer billing deposits; disposition
   
53.36   Power to impose further regulations for collection, rebating and
refunding of rates and charges
   
53.37   Subchapter in compliance with town NPDES permit
Rules and Regulations for Connection to and Use of Municipal Sewer System
   
53.50   Definitions
   
53.51   Meaning of abbreviations
   
53.52   General waste disposal regulations; sewer connection required
   
53.53   Connection permit required; classes of permits; permit requirements
   
53.54   Major contributors; special permit required; application requirements;
term and renewal
   
53.55   Major contributor permits
   
53.56   Building sewer design and construction standards
   
53.57   Wastewater admissibility
   
53.58   Pretreatment requirements; applicability and priority of local, federal
and state standards
   
53.59   Pretreatment facilities; construction, operation and maintenance of
facilities
   
53.60   Power of town to impose further regulations
   
53.61   Enforcement procedure; notice of violations; compliance
   
53.62   Admissibility standards; order for compliance
   
53.63   Suspension of sewer service
   
53.64   Revocation of connection permit
   
53.65   Appeals
   
53.66   Right of access to private property and easements for inspection,
sampling and maintenance
   
53.67   Subchapter in compliance with town NPDES permit
   
53.68   Septic tanks permitted in some circumstances
 
   
53.99   Penalty
ORGANIZATION, FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 53.01 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH SEWAGE WORKS.
   (A)   The town shall establish, construct, equip, own, operate and maintain
sewage works, together with equipment and appurtenances as may be necessary or
useful and convenient for the collection, treatment, purification and disposal
in a sanitary manner of the sewage and industrial wastes of the town, including
the necessary lands, rights-of-way or other property therefor within or without
the corporate limits of the town, under and pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23
(hereinafter called the Act), and all acts supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The terms SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS, WORKS and other like terms where
used in this chapter shall be construed to mean and include all those
structures and property. The sewage works, consisting of lands, easements,
rights-of-way, interceptors, sewers and treatment plant shall be acquired and
constructed in accordance with the plans, specifications and estimates
heretofore prepared by Butler, Fairman & Seufert, Inc., consulting engineers,
which are now on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and are
hereby adopted and approved, and by reference made a part of this chapter as
fully as if the same were attached hereto or incorporated herein. The estimated
cost of construction of the works shall not exceed the sum of $1,855,726, and
the works shall be constructed and the bonds herein authorized shall be issued
pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and all acts
supplemental thereto. The Town Council hereby declares that the period of
usefulness of the sewage works to be constructed pursuant to this chapter will
be at least 40 years from the date of completion.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-1) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.02 SEWAGE WORKS CONSTRUCTION BONDS (1981 SERIES); AUTHORITY TO ISSUE
BONDS; MAXIMUM INTEREST RATE; MATURITY.
   (A)   The town shall issue its sewage works revenue bonds in the amount of
$398,000 for the purpose of procuring funds to apply on the cost of the works,
as defined in I.C. 36-9-23. Except as is provided in §
53.03, the bonds shall be issued in the denomination of $1,000 each, numbered
consecutively from C-1 up, dated as of the date of delivery of the bonds, and
shall bear interest at a rate or rates not exceeding 5% per annum, payable
annually on October 1 in each year, beginning on October 1, 1983. Such interest
shall be evidenced by coupons attached to the bonds. Both bonds and interest
coupons shall be payable in such coin or currency as at the time of payment
shall be legally acceptable for the payment of debts due the United States of
America at the North Salem State Bank, in the town, or, at the option of the
holder, at such bank in the City of Indianapolis, Indiana as may be designated
by the original purchaser, other than as agency of the United States, who
purchases the issue, subject to approval by the town, and such bonds shall
mature serially in numerical order on October 1 in the years and amounts as
follows:
Years Amounts
Years Amounts
1984  $4,000
1985  4,000
1986  4,000
1987  4,000
1988  5,000
1989  5,000
1990  5,000
1991  5,000
1992  5,000
1993  6,000
1994  6,000
1995  6,000
1996  7,000
1997  7,000
1998  7,000
1999  8,000
2000  8,000
2001  8,000
2002  9,000
2003  9,000
2004  10,000
2005  10,000
2006  11,000
2007  11,000
2008  12,000
2009  12,000
2010  13,000
2011  14,000
2012  14,000
2013  15,000
2014  16,000
2015  17,000
2016  18,000
2017  18,000
2018  20,000
2019  20,000
2020  22,000
2021  23,000
 
   (B)   The bonds shall be signed in the name of the town by the President of
the Town Council and attested by the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall affix the seal
of the town to each of the bonds. Any interest coupons attached to the bonds
shall be executed by placing thereon the facsimile signature of the Clerk-
Treasurer, and the official, by the signing of the bonds, shall adopt as and
for his or her own proper signature his or her facsimile signature appearing on
the coupons. Subject to the provisions for registration, the bonds shall have
all of the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of
the state. The coupon bonds shall be negotiable by delivery unless registered
as to principal.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-2)
§ 53.03 SEWAGE WORKS CONSTRUCTION BONDS (1981 SERIES); OPTION TO REGISTER;
TRANSFER OF REGISTERED BONDS; EXCHANGE FOR COUPON BONDS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
53.02, at the option of an original purchaser of the bonds, fully registered
bonds without coupons, dated as of the date or dates of delivery shall be
issued in lieu of coupon bonds in the denomination of $1,000 each, or in
denominations equal to the total principal maturing on each October 1, or in a
denomination equal to the aggregate principal amount of the issue. Any fully
registered bonds shall be numbered consecutively from R-1 up. Principal of
fully registered bonds shall, subject to prior prepayment as hereinafter
provided, fall due on such dates and in such amounts as correspond to the
amounts and dates of maturities set forth in §
53.02. Interest on unpaid installments of principal of fully registered bonds
shall be payable annually on October 1 in each year until the principal amount
thereof has been paid. Both principal and interest shall be payable to the
holder appearing as registered owner thereof on the bond and on the registered
record of the town, by check or draft, mailed or delivered to such registered
owner at the address as it appears on the registration books of the town unless
otherwise directed in writing by the registered owner. However, at the time of
final payment, a fully registered bond and bonds must be delivered to the town.
The party in whose name the bonds are registered shall be deemed the absolute
owner for all purposes, any payments to such owner shall completely discharge
the town’s obligations. Fully registered bonds may be transferred upon proper
execution of an assignment by the registered owner and presentation of the bond
and the executed assignment to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town for notation of
the transfer upon the bond and upon the registration record of the town. Any
prepayments of installment of principal shall also be noted on the prepayment
record attached to such bonds when presented for such prepayments as herein
provided. Upon presentation of any of the coupon bonds at the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-Treasurer shall register the bonds as to principal.
Registration shall occur at no charge or expense to the holder. Such registry
shall be noted on each bond so presented, after which no transfer thereof shall
be valid unless made by the registered owner in person or by his or her
attorney duly authorized and similarly noted on such bond, but coupon bonds so
registered may be discharged from registry by being in like manner
retransferred to bearer, after which they shall be transferable by delivery but
may again be registered as before. The registration of a coupon bond shall not
affect the negotiability of the interest coupons attached thereto, but such
coupons shall continue to pass by delivery merely and shall remain payable to
bearer. Upon surrender of a fully registered bond at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town, or at such other place as may be agreed upon by and
between the town and the registered owner, together with a request for exchange
duly executed by the registered owner, or his or her attorney, in such form as
shall be satisfactory to the town, such bond may, at the option and expense of
the registered owner thereof, be exchanged for coupon bonds in an aggregate
amount equal to the then unpaid principal amount and with maturities
corresponding to the unpaid principal installments of the fully registered
bond, in the denomination of $ 1,000 each, bearing the same rate of interest
payable annually on October 1, with coupons attached representing all unpaid
interest due or to become due thereon. On the surrender of such fully
registered bond without coupon and the filing of a request for exchange, the
town shall execute and deliver such coupon bonds in accordance with the request
for exchange and in the form of bond substantially as set fourth for other
coupon bonds of this issue. The coupon bonds shall be issued within 60 days
from the date of the filing of the request for such exchange. Any fully
registered bond surrendered for exchange shall, upon delivery of the coupon
bonds, be forthwith cancelled by the town.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-3)
§ 53.04 SEWAGE WORKS CONSTRUCTION BONDS (1981 SERIES); DISPOSITION OF SALE
PROCEEDS; INVESTMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to have bonds and
coupons prepared, and the President of the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer
are hereby authorized and directed to execute the bonds and any interest
coupons to be attached thereto in the form and manner herein provided. The
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to deliver the bond to the
purchasers thereof. At the time of the delivery, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
collect the full amount which the purchase, or purchasers, have agreed to pay
therefor, which shall not be less than the face value of the bonds; provided
that is the best bid received is from an agency of the United States of
America, the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to receive payment for the bond or
bonds in installments over a period corresponding to the construction period.
The bonds herein authorized, when fully paid for and delivered, shall be the
binding special revenue obligations of the town, payable out of the revenues of
the sewage works to be set aside into the Sewage Works Sinking Fund as herein
provided, and the proceeds derived from the sale of the bonds shall be and are
hereby set aside for application on the cost of acquisition, construction and
installation of the sewage works hereinbefore referred to, and the expense
necessarily incurred in connection therewith. Any premium received at the time
of delivery of the bonds shall be deposited in the Sewage Works Sinking Fund
hereinafter created and credited to the bond and interest account thereof. The
remaining proceeds from the sale of the bonds shall be deposited in the North
Salem State Bank in the town, in a special account or accounts, separate and
apart from other bank accounts of the town, to be designated as “Town of North
Salem, Sewage Works Construction Account”. All monies deposited to the credit
of the Sewage Works Construction Account shall be deposited, held, secured or
invested in direct obligations of the United States of America, in accordance
with the laws of the state relating to the depositing, holding, securing or
investing of public funds, including particularly I.C. 5-31-1 as it may be
supplemented. Any income from such investment shall become a part of the Sewage
Works Construction Account. The funds in the special account or accounts shall
be expended only for the purpose of paying the cost of the works, as defined in
I.C. 36-9-23, or as otherwise required by I.C. 36-9-23. Any balance or balances
remaining unexpended in such special account or accounts of the Sewage Works
Construction Account, after completion of the works, which are not required to
meet unpaid obligations incurred in connection with such construction, shall,
within 60 days after completion of the project, be deposited in the Sewage
Works Sinking Fund, credited to the Debt Service Reserve Account thereof, and
shall be used solely for the purpose of the fund. The proper officers of the
town are hereby directed to draw all proper and necessary warrants, and to do
whatever acts and things which may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-4)
§ 53.05 SEWAGE WORKS CONSTRUCTION BONDS (1981 SERIES); EARLY REDEMPTION;
NOTICE.
   The coupon bonds, and installments of principal of fully registered bonds,
of this issue maturing on October 1, 1992, and thereafter, shall be redeemable
at the option of the town from any funds regardless of source, in whole, or
from time to time in part, on October 1, 1991, or any interest payments date
thereafter, at the principal amount thereof and accrued interest to the date
fixed for redemption, without any premium. Redemptions of coupon bonds, or
prepayments of installments of principal of fully registered bonds, shall be
made in inverse chronological order of maturities outstanding at the time of
redemption or prepayment, and in inverse numerical order for coupon bonds if
less than an entire is called, less than and entire maturity is called. Notice
of redemption of coupon bonds shall be published at least one time in a
newspaper published in the county and of general circulation in the town not
less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. The notice of
redemption of coupon bonds shall also be published in The Indianapolis
Commercial, or in the event of suspension of publication of such newspaper,
then in another newspaper or financial journal published in the City of
Indianapolis, by two insertions, the first to be at least 30 days prior to the
date fixed for redemption and the second to be not more than 30 nor less than
15 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Notice shall be given by
registered mail, postmarked at least 30 days prior to the date of redemption or
prepayment, to the registered holder at his or her address as shown on the
registration record of the town in the event redemption of a registered coupon
bond or prepayment of principal on a fully registered bond. The notice shall
specify the date and place of redemption or prepayments, the serial numbers of
the bonds called for redemption, or subject to prepayment, and identification
of installments of principal to be prepaid. The place of redemption of coupon
bonds may be any bank where principal of bonds of this issue is payable. The
place of prepayment of installments of principal on fully registered bonds
shall be the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town who shall record the
prepayments on the bonds. Interest on the bonds so called for redemption, or on
installments of principal to be prepaid, shall cease on the date fixed in such
notice if sufficient funds are available at the place of redemption or
prepayment to pay the price on the date so named, including interest to said
date. If an unmatured coupon bond and coupon or coupons so called for
redemption, or any fully registered bond called for prepayment, shall not be
presented on the date and at the place designated, the town may place in trust
at the bank constituting the place of redemption, or in the case of fully
registered bonds called for prepayment the town shall hold in trust, in the
town’s depository bank, sufficient funds to effect such redemption or
prepayment in full, and thereafter the holder of such bond and coupon or
coupons shall be entitled to payment only from such trust funds and the
redemption or prepayment thereof shall be deemed to have been effected and the
bonds no longer outstanding.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-5)
§ 53.06 OUTSTANDING BONDS; ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWAGE WORKS REVENUES.
   (A)   All bonds of this issue, and any bonds ranking on a parity therewith
as to both principal and interest, shall be payable from and secured by an
irrevocable pledge of, and shall constitute a first charge upon, all the net
revenue (herein defined as gross revenues exclusive of recovered grant amounts
from industrial users as required by the Environmental Protection Agency, after
deduction only for the payment of the reasonable expenses of operation, repair
and maintenance) of the sewage works of the town, including the works herein
authorized to be acquired and constructed and all additions and improvements
thereto and replacements thereof subsequently constructed or acquired. The town
shall not be obligated to pay the bonds or the interest thereon except from the
net revenues of the works, and the bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness
of the town within the meaning of the provisions and limitations of the
Constitution of the state.
   (B)   As soon as the sewage works becomes revenue-producing, all revenues
derived from the operation of the sewage works and from the collection of
sewage rates and charges shall be segregated and kept separate and apart from
all other funds and bank accounts of the town. Out of the revenues the proper
and reasonable expenses of operation, repair and maintenance of the works shall
be paid; the principal and interest of all bonds and fiscal agency charges of
bank paying agents shall be paid, and the costs of replacements, extensions,
additions and improvements shall be paid as hereinafter provided. No monies
derived from the revenues of the sewage works shall be transferred to the
General Fund of the town or be used for any purpose not connected with the
sewage works so long as any bonds payable from the revenues of the sewage works
are outstanding.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-6) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.07 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a fund to be known as the “Operation and
Maintenance Fund”, to which there shall be credited as of the last day of each
calendar month a sufficient amount of the revenues of the sewage works so that
the balance in the fund shall be sufficient to pay the expenses of operation,
repair and maintenance for the then next succeeding two calendar months.
   (B)   The monies credited to this fund shall be used for payment of the
reasonable and proper operation, repair and maintenance expenses of the sewage
works on a day-to-day basis, but none of the monies in the fund shall be used
for depreciation, replacements, improvements, extensions and additions. Any
balance in the fund in excess of the expected expenses of operation, repair and
maintenance for the next succeeding month may be transferred to the Sewage
Works Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment of
principal or interest on the outstanding bonds.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-7) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.08 SINKING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a sinking fund for the payment of the
principal of and interest on revenue bonds which by their terms are payable
from the revenues of the sewage works, and the payment of any fiscal agency
charges in connection with the payment of bonds and interest coupons, which
fund shall be designated to the “Sewage Works Sinking Fund.”
   (B)   There shall be set aside and deposited in the Sinking Fund, as
available, and as hereinafter provided, a sufficient amount of the net revenues
of the sewage works (defined as gross revenues exclusive of recovered grant
amounts from industrial users as required by the Environmental Protection
Agency, after deduction only for the payment of the reasonable expenses of
operation, repair and maintenance) to meet the requirements of the Bond and
Interest Account and of the Debt Service Reserve Account hereby created in the
Sewage Works Sinking Fund.
   (C)   The payments shall continue until the balance in the Bond and Interest
Account, plus the balance in the Debt Service Reserve Account hereinafter
created, equal the principal of and interest on all of the then outstanding
bonds to the final maturity thereof.
      (1)   Bond and Interest Account. As soon as the sewage work becomes
revenue-producing, there shall be credited on the first day of each calendar
month to the Bond and Interest Account an amount equal to the sum of one-tenth
of the interest on all then outstanding bonds payable on the then next
succeeding interest payment date, and one-tenth of the amount of principal
payable on the then outstanding bond which will be payable on the then next
succeeding principal payment date, until the amount of interest and principal
payable on the then next succeeding respective principal and interest payment
dates shall have been so credited. There shall similarly be credited to the
account any amount necessary to pay the bank fiscal agency charges for paying
principal and interest on the bonds as the same become payable. The town shall,
from the sums deposited in the Sewage Works Sinking Fund and credited to the
Bond and Interest Account, remit promptly to the registered owner or to the
bank fiscal agency sufficient monies to pay the principal and interest on the
due dates thereof together with the amount of bank fiscal agency charges.
      (2)   Debt Service Reserve Account. On the first day of each calendar
month, after marking the credits to the Bond and Interest Account, there shall
be credited from available net revenues to the Debt Service Account the sum of
$200, or a higher amount as may be fixed from time to time by the Town Council.
The credits to the Debt Service Reserve Account shall continue until the
balance therein shall equal not less than the maximum annual principal and
interest requirements of the outstanding bonds payable from the Sewage Works
sinking Fund. The Debt Service Reserve Account shall constitute the margin for
safety and a protection against default in the payment of principal of and
interest against default in the payment of principal of and interest on the
bonds, and the monies in the Debt Service Reserve shall be used to pay current
principal and interest on the bonds to the extent that monies in the Debt
Service Reserve shall be used to pay current principal and interest on the
bonds to the extent that monies in the Bond and Interest Account are
insufficient for that purpose. Any deficiencies in credits to the Debt Service
Reserve Account shall be promptly made up from the next available net revenues
remaining after credit into the Bond and Interest Account. In the event monies
in the Debt Service Reserve Account are transferred to the Bond and Interest
Account to pay principal and interest on bonds, then the depletion of the
balance in the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be made up from the next
available net revenues after the credits into the Bond and Interest Account
hereinbefore provided for. Any monies in the Debt Service Reserve Account in
excess of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the then
outstanding bonds may be used for the redemption of coupon bonds or prepayment
of installments of principal on fully registered bonds which are then callable
or prepayable, or for the purchase of outstanding bonds or installments of
principal of fully registered bonds at a price not exceeding par and accrued
interest, or may be transferred to the Sewage Works Improvement Fund.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-8) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.09 SEWAGE WORKS IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   After meeting the requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, and
the Sewage Works Sinking Fund, any excess revenues may be transferred or
credited to a fund designated the “Sewage Works Improvement Fund”, and the fund
shall be used for improvements, replacements, additions and extensions of the
sewage works. Monies in the Sewage Works Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a
default in the payment of principal and interest on the then outstanding bonds
or, if necessary, to eliminate any deficiencies in credits to or minimum
balance in the Debt Service Reserve Account of the Sewage Works Sinking Fund
may be disbursed.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-9) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.10 SEPARATION OR COMBINING OF SEWAGE WORKS FUNDS.
   (A)   The Sewage Works Sinking Fund shall be deposited in and maintained as
a separate bank account or accounts apart from all other bank accounts of the
town.
   (B)   The Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Sewage Works Improvement
Fund may be maintained in a single bank account, or accounts, but the bank
account, or accounts, shall likewise be maintained separate and apart from all
other bank accounts of the town and apart from the Sewage Works Sinking Fund
bank account or accounts.
   (C)   All monies deposited in the bank accounts shall be deposited, held and
secured as public funds in accordance with the public depository laws of the
state; provided that monies therein may be invested in obligations in
accordance with the applicable laws, including particularly I.C. 5-13-9-1 et
seq., as amended or supplemented, and in the event of the investment the income
therefrom shall become a part of the funds invested and shall be used only as
provided in this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-10) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.11 REVENUES; ACCOUNTING; ANNUAL REPORT TO BONDHOLDERS.
   (A)   The town shall keep proper books of records and accounts, separate
from all of its other records and accounts, in which complete and correct
entries shall be made showing all revenues collected from the works and all
disbursements made on account of the works, also all transactions relating to
the works and all disbursements made on account of the works, also all
transactions relating to the works.
   (B)   There shall be prepared and furnished to the original purchasers of
the bonds, and, upon written request, to any subsequent holder of the bonds,
not more than 90 days after the close of each fiscal year, complete operating
income and expense statements of the works, covering the preceding fiscal year
and the balances in the several funds and accounts created by this subchapter.
   (C)   The fiscal year of the sewage works shall be from January 1 to
December 31, both inclusive. Copies of all the statements and reports, together
with all audits of the sewage works made available to the town by the State
Board of Accounts or any successor body authorized by law to audit municipal
accounts, shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. Any
holder or holders of the bonds then outstanding shall have the right at all
reasonable times to inspect the works and all records, accounts, statements,
audits, reports and data of the town relating to the sewage works. The
inspections may be made by representatives duly authorized by written
instrument.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-11) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.12 REQUIREMENT TO IMPOSE EQUITABLE RATES AND CHARGES; COVENANT WITH
BONDHOLDERS.
   The town covenants and agrees that it will establish and maintain just and
equitable rates or charges for the use of and the service rendered by the
works, to be paid by the owner of each and every lot, parcel of real estate or
building that is connected with and uses the sewage works by or through any
part of the sewerage system of the town, or that in any way uses or is served
by the works, that the rates or charges shall be sufficient in each year for
the payment of the proper and reasonable expenses of operation, repair,
replacement and maintenance of the works, and for the payment of the sums
required to be paid into the Sewerage Works Sinking Fund by this chapter and by
the Act. The rates or charges shall, if necessary, be changed and readjusted
from time to time so that the revenues therefrom shall always be sufficient to
meet the expenses of operation, repair and maintenance, and the requirements of
Sewage Works Sinking Fund. The rates or charges so established shall apply to
any and all use of the works by and service rendered to the town and all
departments thereof as the charges accrue.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-12) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.13 RIGHT OF TOWN TO ISSUE ADDITIONAL SEWAGE BONDS; CONDITIONS AND
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to authorize and issue additional bonds,
payable out of the revenues of its sewage works, ranking on a parity with the
bonds authorized by this chapter to complete the planned project, according to
the plans and specifications upon certification of the engineer of the amount
necessary without any further conditions; or for the purpose of financing the
cost of future additions, extensions and improvements to the sewage works,
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The interest on and principal of all bonds payable from the
revenues of the sewage works shall have been paid to date in accordance with
the terms thereof and the amounts required to be paid into the Sewage Works
Sinking Fund and the accounts thereof shall have been paid;
      (2)   The net revenues of the sewage works in the fiscal year immediately
preceding the issuance of any bonds ranking on a parity with the bonds
authorized by this chapter shall not be less than 120% of the maximum annual
interest and principal requirements of the then outstanding bonds and the
proposed additional parity bonds to the final maturity of the then outstanding
bonds. For purpose of this subsection, the records of the sewage works shall be
analyzed and all showing shall be prepared by a certified public accountant
retained by the town for that purpose; and
      (3)   The interest on the additional parity bonds shall be payable
annually on October 1, and the principal shall be payable annually on October 1
in the years in which principal and interest are payable.
   (B)   Parity bonds may also be issued to refund less than all of the then
outstanding bonds issued pursuant to this chapter of ranking on a parity
therewith, but any such refunding bonds shall be subject to the conditions in
this section unless the bonds being refunded mature within three months of the
date of the refunding and no other funds are available to pay the maturing
bonds. In computing the maximum annual interest and principal requirements
pursuant to division (A)(2) above, the interest on the principal of the
refunding bonds shall be substituted for the interest on the principal of the
bonds being refunded.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-13) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.14 FURTHER COVENANTS WITH BONDHOLDERS FOR ADMINISTRATION, OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   For the purpose of further safeguarding the interests of the holders of the
bonds herein authorized, it is specifically provided as follows.
   (A)   Construction contracts: surety requirement. All contacts let by the
town in connection with the construction of the sewage works shall be let after
due advertisement as required by the laws of the state, and all contractors
shall be required to furnish surety bonds in an amount equal to 100% of the
amount of the contracts, to insure the completion of the contracts, in
accordance with their terms, and the contractors shall also be required to
carry the employers’ liability and public liability insurance as are required
under the laws of the state in the case of public contracts, and shall be
governed in all respects by the laws of the state relating to public contracts.
   (B)   Supervision and approval of cost estimates and construction work. The
works shall be constructed under the supervision and subject to the approval of
Butler, Fairman & Seufert, Inc., or other competent engineer as shall be
designated by the town. All estimated for work done or material furnished must
first be checked by the engineer and approved by the town prior to payment
therefor.
   (C)   Obligation to maintain and operate sewage works efficiently. The town
shall at all times maintain its sewage works in good condition and operate the
same in an efficient manner and at a reasonable cost.
   (D)   Damage insurance. So long as any of the bonds herein authorized are
outstanding, the town shall maintain insurance on the insurable parts of the
works of a kind and in an amount as would normally be carried by private
companies engaged in a similar type of business. All insurance shall be placed
with responsible insurance companies qualified to do business under the laws of
the state. Insurance proceeds shall be used in replacing or repairing the
property destroyed or damaged, or if not used for that purpose shall be
deposited in the Sewage Works Sinking Fund and credited to the Debt Service
Reserve Account.
   (E)   Non-encumbrance and non-disposal of sewage work. So long as any of the
bonds are outstanding, the town shall not mortgage, pledge or otherwise
encumber the works, or any part thereof, nor shall it sell, lease or otherwise
dispose of any portion thereof except equipment or property which may become
worn out, obsolete or no longer suitable for use in the sewage works. Except as
hereinbefore provided in §
53.13, so long as any of the bonds herein authorized are outstanding, no
additional bonds or other obligations pledging any portion of the revenues of
the sewage works shall be authorized, executed or issued by the town except as
shall be made subordinate and junior in all respects to the bonds herein
authorized, unless all of the bonds herein authorized have been duly called for
redemption and sufficient funds to effect the redemption and retirement have
been deposited at the place of redemption on the date fixed for redemption in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the bonds and this chapter.
   (F)   Mandatory connections of sewer system. The town shall take all action
or proceedings necessary and proper to require connection of all property where
liquid and solid waste, sewage, night soil or industrial waste is produced with
available sanitary sewers. The town shall, insofar as possible, cause all the
sanitary sewers to be connected with the sewage works.
   (G)   Provisions of chapter to constitute contract with bondholders; changes
or amendments: consent of bondholders.
      (1)   The provisions of the chapter shall constitute a contract by and
between the town and the holders of the sewage works revenue bonds herein
authorized, and after the issuance of the bonds this chapter shall not be
repealed or amended in any respect which will adversely affect the rights of
the holders of the bonds, nor shall the Town Council adopt any law, ordinance
or resolution which in any way adversely affects the rights of the holders so
long as any of the bonds or the interest thereon remain unpaid.
      (2)   However, subject to the terms and provisions contained in this
division, and not otherwise, the holders of not less than 75% in aggregate
principal amount of the bonds issued pursuant to this chapter and then
outstanding shall have the right, from time to time, anything contained in this
chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, to consent to and approve the adoption
by the town of the ordinance or ordinances supplemental hereto as shall be
deemed necessary or desirable by the town for the purpose of modifying,
altering, amending, adding to or rescinding in any particular any of the terms
or provisions contained in this chapter, or in any supplemental ordinance;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall permit or be constructed
as permitting:
         (a)   An extension of the maturity of the principal of or interest on
any bond issued pursuant to this chapter;
         (b)   A reduction in the principal amount of any bond or the
redemption premium or the rate of interest thereupon;
         (c)   The creation of a lien upon or a pledge of the revenues of the
sewage works ranking prior to the pledge thereof created by this chapter;
         (d)   A preference or priority of any bond or bonds issued pursuant to
this chapter over any other bond or bonds issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter; or
         (e)   A reduction in the aggregate principal amount of the bonds
required for consent to the supplement ordinance.
      (3)   The holders of not less than 75% in aggregate principal amount of
the bonds outstanding at the time of adoption of the supplemental ordinance
shall have consented to and approved the adoption thereof by written instrument
to be maintained on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town. No
holder of any bond issued pursuant to this chapter shall have any right to
object to the adoption of a supplemental ordinance or to object to any of the
terms and provisions thereof. Upon the adoption of any supplemental ordinance
pursuant to the provisions of this section, this chapter shall be, and shall be
deemed, modified and amended in accordance therewith, and the respective
rights, duties and obligations under this chapter of the town and all holders
of bonds used pursuant to the provisions of this chapter then outstanding,
shall thereafter be determined exercised and enforced in accordance with this
chapter, subject in all respects to the modifications and amendments.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of this chapter, the
rights and obligations of the town and of the holders of the bonds authorized
by this chapter, and the terms and provisions of the bonds and this chapter, or
any supplemental ordinance, may be modified or altered in any respect with the
consent of the town and the consent of the holders of all the bonds issued
pursuant to this chapter then outstanding.
   (H)   Terms of chapter construed to create trust; default on bonds;
receivership. The provisions of this chapter shall be construed to create a
trust in the proceeds of the sale of the bonds herein authorized for the uses
and purposes therein set forth, and the holders of the bonds shall retain a
lien on theproceeds until the same are applied in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and of the governing Act. The provisions of this
chapter shall be construed to create a trust in the portion of the Sewage Works
Sinking Fund for the uses and purposes of the fund as in this chapter set
forth. The holders of the bonds shall have all of the rights, remedies and
privileges set forth in the provisions ofthegoverning Act hereinbefore referred
to, including the right to have a receiver appointed to administer the sewage
works, in the event of default in the payment of the principal of or interest
on anyof the bonds herein authorized or in the event of default in respect to
any of the provisions of thischapter or the governing Act.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-14) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.15 BONDS HELD BY FARMERS’ HOME ADMINISTRATION; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   So long as the United States of America, acting through the Farmers’ Home
Administration, is the holder of any of the bonds, the town covenants that in
addition to the other covenants, terms and conditions applicable to the bonds
authorized by this chapter, that:
   (A)   The Clerk -Treasurer shall maintain a fidelity bond in an amount not
less than $90,000 which shall name the Farmers’ Home Administration as a co-
obligee;
   (B)   All disbursements and payments from the Construction Account
established by this subchapter shall be countersigned by the official as shall
be designated in writing by the Farmers’ Home Administration;
   (C)   The town, to the extent permitted by state law, shall make periodic
reports on the sewage works and its funds and accounts as shall be specific by
the Farmers’ Home Administration; and
   (D)   To the extent permitted by law, the town shall comply with the terms
and conditions of the Farmers’ Home Administration Loan Agreement, dated August
12, 1981.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-15) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 53.16 TECHNICAL BOND PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE AND SAVED.
   For so long as the sewage works construction bonds authorized herein remain
outstanding, §§ 5, 6 and 11 of Ord. 1981-14 are hereby incorporated by
reference and preserved from any general repeal of prior ordinances under the
provisions of §
10.11.
(1985 Code, § 3-6-16) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-24-1981)
SEWER SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL FLOW. The total amount of waste treated by the treatment plant during
the preceding year.
   ANNUAL REVENUES REQUIRED. The total amount of revenues necessary to operate
the sewage works in an efficient and economical manner and meet all known or
anticipated expenditures, including, but not limited to, operation and
maintenance expenses, debt service, replacement and depreciation.
   BOD, denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   DEBT SERVICE. The total principal of and interest of the outstanding revenue
bonds of the sewage works due and payable within the next 12 calendar months.
   DEPRECIATION. An annual operating cost reflecting capital consumption and
obsolescence (reduction of future service potential) of the sewage works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from any manufacturing or industrial
user.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastes such as are normally discharged from
individual residences and other housing units. Normal domestic sewage shall not
include any waste containing a loading in excess of 200 milligrams per liter
(mg/l) and BOD and 250 mg/l suspended solids.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All ordinary and necessary expenses
incurred in the normal operation of the sewage works, including, but not
limited to, salaries and wages, electrical power, chemicals, supplies, minor
repairs, insurance and taxes.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works, to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   SERVICE LIFE. The estimated useful life of the sewage works. For purposes of
determining replacement, the town adopts the following guidelines for SERVICE
LIVES for components of its sewage works:
      (1)   Structures: 50 years (includes buildings, sewers, lift stations);
      (2)   Process equipment: 20 years (includes major process equipment such
as clarifier mechanism and vacuum filters, steel process tankage and chemical
storage facilities, and electrical generating facilities on standby service
only.); and
      (3)   Auxiliary equipment: 15 years (includes sewage pumps and electric
motors, mechanical equipment such as compressors, aeration systems, centrifuges
and electrical generating facilities on regular service.)
   SEWER USER. Any person to whom any sewer user charge billings are sent in
accordance with the billing records of the Clerk-Treasurer, including a tenant
or other occupant of any premises served by the town sewer system as provided
by §
53.34.
   SURCHARGE. The additional charge applied to industrial users or other users
whose waste contains BOD or suspended solids in excess of allowable limits.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER CHARGE. That charge applied uniformly to all users of the sewage works
to cover operations and maintenance expenses and replacement, based on the
quantity of sewage produced as measured by water meters or other acceptable
measuring devices.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-1) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981; Ord. 7C-1984, passed 12-
4-1984)
§ 53.26 GENERAL IMPOSITION OF SEWER USE RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the services rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owner of each and every lot, parcel of real
estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewage system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids,
either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the town,
which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided, and shall be
in an amount determinable as follows in this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-2) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981)
§ 53.27 POWER TO IMPOSE SURCHARGES BASED ON STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF SEWAGE;
PROHIBITION OF HARMFUL WASTES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered, the town shall impose, in addition to the
charge based upon volume, a surcharge based upon the strength and character of
the sewage and waste which it is required to treat and dispose of.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to measure and determine, or cause to be
measured and determined, the strength and content of all sewage system in a
manner and by methods as may be deemed practical in the light of the conditions
and attending circumstances in order to determine the proper charge. The town
may prohibit the dumping of waste into the town’s sewage system, which, in the
town’s discretion are deemed harmful to the operation of the sewage treatment
works of the town and is further authorized to require methods of pretreatment
of the wastes to reduce the harmful characteristics of the waste prior to
discharge thereof into the town’s system.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-3) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981)
§ 53.28 NEW SEWER CONNECTIONS; PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE AND TAP-ON CHARGE.
   (A)   Each user wishing to connect to the system shall be charged a permit
and inspection fee according to class of sewer connection permit being applied
for, as follows:
 
Class of Permit                    Permit/Inspection Fee
Residential                        $10 per residential
Commercial                         $25 per commercial unit
Industrial                         $50 per industrial unit
Major contributor (new or renewal) $250
 
   (B)   In the case of two or more residential units, commercial units or
industrial units connecting to the public sewer through a common building sewer
(as in a duplex or apartment house, shopping center or office building or
industrial complex), the above fee shall apply to each unit so connecting
through the common building sewer.
   (C)   The commercial rate shall apply to all buildings not to be used
principally for residential purposes, but which are not expected to produce
industrial wastes.
   (D)   In the case of a potential industry applying for connection to the
town’s sewage works, the town shall require a report from the potential user
which shall set forth the anticipated BOD, suspended solids and flow of the
user’s waste.
   (E)   Tap-on fees for sewer users connecting, or reconnecting to the
municipal sewer system following a period of construction, subsequent to the
passage of this section shall be based upon the type of permit granted as
follows:
 
Class of Permit                                         Tap-On Fee
Residential with one-inch or smaller water service line $1,000
Two such residential water service lines on one lot     $2,000
 
(1985 Code, § 3-7-4) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981; Ord. 1-2005, passed 3-3-
2005; Ord. 2014-5, passed 5-1-2014; Ord. 2022-8, passed 1-5-2023)
§ 53.29 BASIC PER-CUSTOMER CHARGES; BASED ON METERED WATER USAGE; AND
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the volume of sewage
discharged into the sanitary sewage system of the town, from the property or
premises subject to the rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water
meter there in use, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Monthly charges are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum charge per month with meter:
 
Meter Size Gallons Allowed Per Month
5/8" meter First 1,000     $15
 
      (2)   Volumetric charges per 1,000 gallons of water usage thereafter: $14
      (3)   Minimum charge per month with no water meter: $30
   (C)   All sewage works utility users whose properties are located outside
the corporate limits of the town shall be assessed a surcharge of 15% to be
calculated as 15% of the monthly charges assessed for the water usage by the
property which surcharge shall be assessed and paid on a monthly basis.
   (D)   The minimum monthly charge with or without a water meter as well as
the volumetric charge per 1,000 gallons of metered water usage shall
automatically be raised 3% per annum commencing January 1, 2022 and each year
following unless otherwise ordered by the Town Council by separate vote.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-5) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981; Ord. 2009-2, passed 1-8-
2009; Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-6-2014; Ord. 2019-4, passed 10-4-2019; Ord. 2021-7,
passed 10-7-2021)
§ 53.30 CERTAIN COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL USERS; TREATMENT SURCHARGE; REPORTS OF
SEWAGE STRENGTH.
   (A)   Any and all commercial and industrial installations having an effluent
discharge into the town’s sewers with an average BOD (biological oxygen demand)
exceeding 200 parts per million concentration shall be deemed to be discharging
sewage of a strength as to require a surcharge for the treatment and disposal
thereof.
   (B)   The surcharges to be imposed by the town for the treatment of the
waste shall be based upon the following formula:
Surcharge = Bo (BOD - ba) + (SS - Sa) x (8.34 x V)
   (C)   The elements in the above formula are as follows:
      (1)   Bo = Average unit cost of treatment, chargeable to BOD, dollars per
pound;
      (2)   BOD = The concentration of BOD in the wastewater from a specific
user, parts per million;
      (3)   Ba = Maximum concentration of BOD in parts per million which can be
discharged into the town’s collection system without a surcharge - 200 parts
per million;
      (4)   So = Average unit cost of treatment (including sludge treatment)
chargeable to suspended solids, dollars per pound;
      (5)   SS = The concentration of suspended solids in the wastewater from a
specific user;
      (6)   Sa = Maximum concentration of suspended solids in parts per million
which can be discharged into the town’s collection system without a surcharge -
250 parts per million; and
      (7)   V = Volume in million gallons.
   (D)   The town shall for the purpose of computing the surcharge periodically
determine the average cost of treatment chargeable to BOD in terms of dollars
per pound (Bo) and the average unit cost of treatment including sludge
treatment chargeable to suspended solids in terms of dollars per pound (So).
Every industrial user or user whose discharge is of a strength in excess of
normal domestic sewage shall submit to the town periodic reports containing
characteristics of his, her or its waste discharge. Unless the town requires
more frequent reports, the user shall submit within 30 days after the close of
a calendar quarter the report for the calendar quarter. The town shall specify
the form and content of the report to each user. For purposes of verifying
reports submitted by industrial or high strength users, the town may collect
and analyze samples of waste at any time and as frequently as deemed necessary.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-8) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981)
§ 53.31 ANNUAL REVIEW OF RATES AND SURCHARGES; PROPORTIONAL SHARE BY EPA USER
CLASSES; REPORTS TO EPA.
   (A)   The user charge and debt service charge as set forth in §§
53.29 or
53.30 shall be reevaluated annually, as soon after the close of the calendar
year as practical, and shall be adjusted in accordance with the following
formula:
 
CU=   Annual Revenues Required for Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
(exclusive of customer costs)
Annual Flow in Hundred Cubic Feet
 
   (B)   The charge for debt service will in like manner be reevaluated in
accordance with the following formula:
      CD= Annual Revenues Required for Debt Service
            Annual Flow in Hundred Cubic Feet
   (C)   The surcharge imposed under §
53.30 above shall be reviewed annually after September 23, 1981, and the
required adjustments made to maintain the equity of charges to various classes
of users. As of September 23, 1981, the town has classified users according to
EPA guidelines. The town shall annually perform tests to determine that each
user class is producing its proportionate share of the total annual revenues
required to operate the sewage system. Those classes are as follows.
      (1)   Residential includes all dwelling units including detached, semi-
detached and row houses, mobile homes, garden and standard apartments and
permanent multi-family dwellings (transit lodging, considered commercial in
nature, is not included).
      (2)   Commercial includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise for personal, household
or industrial consumption and/or rendering services to others.
      (3)   Institutional includes social, charitable, religious and
educational activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes,
penal institutions and similar institutional users.
      (4)   Governmental includes legislative, judicial, administrative and
regulatory activities of federal, state and local governments, such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, town halls and similar governmental
users.
      (5)   Industrial includes manufacturing activities involving the
mechanical or chemical transformation of materials and substances into other
products. These activities occur in establishments usually described as plants,
factories or mills and characteristically use power-driven machines and
material handling equipment.
   (D)   The town shall keep proper books and records relative to the revenues
and expenses of the sewage works and shall maintain in its files all reports
relative to strength and character of usage. All the records shall be made
available for inspection by representatives of the Environmental Protection
Agency at all reasonable times. The town shall report annually to the
Environmental Protection Agency information as requested by the Agency in the
form the Agency shall prescribe.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-9) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981)
§ 53.32 SEWER CHARGE BILLING PROCEDURE; LIABILITY FOR SEWER BILLINGS; BILLING
WHEN MULTIPLE USERS ON SINGLE WATER METER.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town and
shall be collected in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   Rates and charges will be billed to the tenant or tenant occupying the
property served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owners, but the
billing shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the event payment
is not made as herein required.
   (C)   The owners of the property served, which are occupied by tenants,
shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for the
purpose of determining whether the rates and charges have been paid by the
tenants, provided that the examination shall be made in the office in which the
records are kept and during the hours that the office is open for business.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
building discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used will be averaged for each user
and the minimum charge and sewage rates and charges shall apply to each of the
number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings served through
the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as trailers, apartments
or housekeeping rooms, discharging sanitary sewage, water or other wastes into
the town’s sanitary system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water
and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in that
event billing shall be for a single service.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-10) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981)
§ 53.33 SEWER BILLING DEPOSIT IMPOSED.
   (A)   From and after December 4, 1984, every new sewer user, as a
requirement of initial or continuing sewer service to the premises which is
owner occupied and renter occupied by the new sewer user, shall pay to the town
a sewer billing deposit of $25 and $50, respectively as guarantee against sewer
user charges owed to the town.
   (B)   Deposits collected under this section shall be deemed as a provisional
security deposit only, to be held in trust and escrow by the town, and not as
revenues of the sewage works, and shall be credited to and held under the name
of the sewer user in a special subsidiary account designated as the “Sewer
Deposit Account” within the town’s Special Deposit Fund.
   (C)   The sewer user shall not be entitled to any interest on the deposit
while held by the town.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-11) (Ord. 7C-1984, passed 12-4-1984; Ord. 1-98, passed 7-7-
1998)
§ 53.34 REFUND OF SEWER BILLING DEPOSIT; APPLICATION TO UNPAID SEWER BILLS.
   (A)   If any sewer user who has paid a sewer billing deposit subsequently
ceases to own or occupy any premises for which he or she is liable for sewer
user charge billings, he or she shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the date as
of which he or she will cease to be a sewer user.
   (B)   Thirty days after that date, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the
amount of the sewer billing deposit to the sewer user if it is determined that
all sewer user charges then owing by the sewer user have been fully paid.
However, if the Clerk-Treasurer determines that any portion of the sewer user’s
billings have not been paid, the unpaid balance shall be deducted from the
deposit refund, and shall be transferred from the Special Deposit Fund and
shall be distributed to and deposited in the appropriate sewage works fund or
funds in the same manner as other revenue from sewer user charges.
   (C)   However, if, after application of the billing deposit to the unpaid
sewer bills, there still remains an unpaid balance, the sewer user or owner of
the property for service to which an unpaid balance is owing shall remain fully
liable for the unpaid balance, and subject to attachment of a lien on the
property or other legal proceedings for collection.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-12) (Ord. 7C-1984, passed 12-4-1984)
§ 53.35 UNCLAIMED SEWER BILLING DEPOSITS; DISPOSITION.
   In the event that any sewer billing deposit or portion thereof eligible to
be refunded to a former sewer user under the provisions of §
53.34 remains unclaimed for a period of more than one year after the date when
the former sewer user ceases to receive sewer service by the town, the deposit
or portion thereof shall escheat to the town absolutely and shall be
transferred to the Sewer Operation and Maintenance Fund or other fund from
which the operating costs of the town sewage works and system are paid.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-13) (Ord. 7C-1984, passed 12-4-1984)
§ 53.36 POWER TO IMPOSE FURTHER REGULATIONS FOR COLLECTING, REBATING AND
REFUNDING OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   The town shall make and enforce the bylaws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economic and efficient management of the town’s sewage
works, including the sewer system and the treatment plant for the construction
and use of house sewers and connections to the sewer system, and for the
regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of rates and charges.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-14) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981)
§ 53.37 SUBCHAPTER IN COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN NPDES PERMIT.
   The town has been issued National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
Permit No. IN 0040436 by the Environmental Protection Agency governing
discharge from a publicly owned treatment works. The provisions contained in
this chapter are set forth in accordance with the conditions relative to the
Permit and directives of the Environmental Protection Agency. Reference is also
made to §§
53.30 through
53.68, governing connection to and use of the sewage works.
(1985 Code, § 3-7-15) (Ord. 1981-12, passed 9-23-1981)
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CONNECTION TO AND USE OF MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM
§ 53.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. L. No. 92-500) also known
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as well as any
guidelines, limited and standards promulgated by the Environment Protection
Agency pursuant to the Act.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These uses include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources of reserves, and other uses, both tangible
or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes shall mean the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of building drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to a point approximately five feet
outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to
the sewage system or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clear water or other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial
sewage.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. Of sewage, sewage effluent, and polluted
waters is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of the organic
matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than 200 mg/l BOD and 250 mg/
l suspended solids.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right of the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. Water, together with any waters that may be present, flowing out
of a drain, sewer receptacle or outlet.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator
facility.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   GREASE AND OIL. A group of substances including hydrocarbons, fatty acids,
soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a solvent
from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the laboratory test
procedures. GREASES AND OILS are defined by the method of their determination
in accordance with Standards Methods.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum pump trucks and the like.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment manufacturing or
processing facility that discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned
treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharge, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further mean any waste
from an industrial user.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connection, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to
defective pipes, pipe joints, connection or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cistern over flows, cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters,
surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and
is distinguished from infiltration.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Town Council.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A contributor who:
      (1)   Has a flow of more than 25,000 gallons per average;
      (2)   Has in its wastes a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
33 U.S.C. § 1317, or by state law or regulations;
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow of the municipal system
receiving the waste; or
      (4)   Is found by the town, a state agency having regulatory
jurisdiction, or the EPA to have a significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions
generated by the system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, lake or other body of
surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
Categorical Pretreatment Standard which will be applicable to the source, if
the standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit setting
forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to 33 U.S.C. §
1342.
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health or offensive to the senses
of an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership,
copartnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the state, the United States of
America or other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base ten) of the hydrogen ion concentration of a
solution expressed in gram atoms per liter of solution.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects the waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve the beneficial uses. The human-made or human-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewer sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   PREMISES. A parcel of real estate including any single improvement thereon
which is determined by the Council to be a single user for purpose of
receiving, using and payment for service. Any additional improvement on the
same parcel of real estate which is determined by the Council to be user shall
be separately connected to the sewerage for the purpose of receiving, using and
payment for service.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alterations of the nature of pollutants, or alteration of the
nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to
or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing the pollutants into a POTW.
The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6(d); and shall include all applicable rules and regulations as published
in the Federal Register, under 33 U.S.C. § 1317, under regulations 40 C.F.R.
part 403 pursuant to Act, and amendments.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, basement drains, household laundries, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable
floor drains and all other water-carried waste except industrial wastes.
   SEWAGE WORKS. Sewers, wastewater treatment plant, sewerage system, and any
associated structures or equipment.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying both storm, surface, ground water
runoff and wastewater.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries both storm, surface, ground
water runoff and wastewater.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have
equal rights and which is controlled by public authority, including the
following elements:
         (a)   Collection sewer - a sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges;
         (b)   Interceptor sewer - a sewer whose primary purpose is to
transport wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility;
         (c)   Force main - a pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure; and
         (d)   Pumping station - a station positioned in the public sewerage
system at which wastewater is pumped to higher level.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries wastewater and to which
storm, surface and ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewater are not
intentionally admitted.
      (4)   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage but excludes wastewater.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of publicly owned sewers and appurtenances used
for collecting, transporting and pumping wastewater to the wastewater treatment
plant.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under 33 U.S.C. §§
1342, 1345 and in the applicable requirements under 42 U.S.C. §§ 6921, 6924 and
6944 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (Pub. L. No. 94-580).
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flow during normal operation and shall adversely affect the sewage works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The administrative head of the wastewater treatment plant.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic service charge.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects such as cancer, genetic mutation and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to sanitary sewers
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   USER CLASSES. The Industrial Class shall include any user, identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual of 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions: Division A
- Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing; Division B - Mining; Division D -
Manufacturing; Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary services; and Division I - Services. The Non-Industrial Class shall
include all users whose wastes are segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences where regular domestic wastes are those wastes generated
by normal domestic activity.
   WASTE. Includes sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances,
liquid, solid, gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of
human or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including the waste placed within
containers or whatever nature prior to and for purposes of disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with the ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating wastewater.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-1) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.51 MEANING OF ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   l. Liter.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   WPCF. Water Pollution Control Federation.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-2) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.52 GENERAL WASTE DISPOSAL REGULATIONS; SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful within the town or any area under the town’s
jurisdiction for any person to do or permit any of the following:
      (1)   Deposit in any unsanitary manner on public or private property any
human or animal excrement, garbage, other objectionable waste or any wastewater
or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the provisions or this chapter and the town’s NPDES permit;
      (2)   Discharge to any waterway sewage or other polluted waters except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and the town’s NPDES permit; or
      (3)   Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for sewage disposal, except as permitted
under §
53.68.
   (B)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, shall be required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
Council from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-3) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.53 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED; CLASSES OF PERMITS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer, or appurtenance thereof,
without first obtaining a written permit from the town or its agents.
   (B)   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential service;
      (2)   For commercial service; and
      (3)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (C)   In each case, the owner or his or her representative shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Council or its agents.
   (D)   There shall be a charge made for each class of permit (including
inspections) in an amount as fixed under §
53.28. However, the town shall prohibit any new connection from inflow sources
into the sanitary sewer portions of the sewerage system and shall assure that
policies are established so that new sewers and connections to the sanitary
sewers are properly designed and connected.
   (E)   The Council shall not approve any new connection into the sanitary
sewers which will cause overloading.
   (F)   No new connection shall be made unless there is flow capacity
available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
wastewater treatment plant, including capacity for BOD and SS. The town shall
not authorize any tap permit which will cause excess flow, BOD and/or suspended
solid loading of the wastewater treatment plant, force mains, lift stations or
sewers.
   (G)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either
directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been
obtained and until he or she has satisfied his or her obligation to pay all
assessments, reimbursement or prorate shares of sewer extension costs lain
against that property for public sewers installed to serve it.
   (H)   A tap permit given in error or sewerage service charges billed to
property in error shall not operate to nullify any such obligation that has
been duly recorded.
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the town when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the town.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-4) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.54 MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS; SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS;
TERM AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any industrial user and any other user on demand of the town shall
provide the town with sufficient information to determine if that user is a
major contributor, and shall be required to obtain a permit which describes the
wastewater constituents and characteristics allowed and which sets forth the
applicable surveillance schedule and the monitoring requirements the user shall
be subject to in order to discharge into the town’s sewerage system.
   (B)   Major contributors shall make application for the proposed discharge
on a form provided by the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications, studies or other information considered pertinent by
the town, to evaluate compatibility with the sewerage system.
   (C)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §
53.57(B), as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as
amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities; facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
the additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments or progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring and engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction);
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (C)(9)(a) above shall
exceed nine months; and
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
town including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress to be met on that date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps
being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule established.
In no event shall more than nine months elapse between the progress reports to
the Superintendent.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the town to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
   (D)   The town will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the town may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
   (E)   Wastewater contribution permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the town. Nothing in a major contributor permit shall
constitute an exception to the prohibitions and limitation on wastewater
admissibility as set forth herein.
   (F)   Major contributors are subject to all applicable fees, rate and
charges set forth in this chapter or in §
53.55. A major contributor permit shall be valid for four years unless process
changes are made that, in the opinion of the Superintendent, alter the
wastewater constituents and characteristics significantly. In the event of a
like change, a new application shall be filed accordingly. A permit shall be
renewed by new application at the end of four years. The re-application for
renewal will be subject to normal application fees in force at re-application.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-5) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.55 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The town may adopt charges and fees which may include:
         (a)   Fees for reimbursement of costs or setting up and operating the
POTW’s pretreatment
Program;
         (b)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
         (c)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
         (d)   Fees for permit applications;
         (e)   Fees for filing appeals;
         (f)   Fees for consistent removal (by the POTW) of pollutants
otherwise subject to federal pretreatment standards; and
         (g)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirement contained herein.
      (2)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by major
contributor permits and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the
town. It is the purpose of charges and fees to provide for the recovery of
costs from users of the POTW for the implementation of the program established
herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the schedule of
charges and fees.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-6)
   (B)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
the standard shall be revised to require compliance with the standard within
the time frame prescribed by the standard. Where a user, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater contribution permit as required by §
53.54, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the Applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater contribution permit
shall submit to the town within 180 days after the promulgation of an
applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard the information required
by §
53.54(C)(8) and (9).
(1985 Code, § 3-8-7)
(Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-1981)
§ 53.56 BUILDING SEWER DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Building sewers for which a permit is issued under §§
53.53 or
53.54 must conform to the following requirements for design, construction and
installation.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or an amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 current issue, and the Uniform
Building and Plumbing Code of the state shall apply.
   (C)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall, which might be weakened. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at
uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
   (D)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
   (E)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the town, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for inspection, and kept clean at all times. Grease and
oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bottled in place, shall be gastight and watertight, and
capable of the maximum flow rate of the pipe installed therein.
   (F)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the location specified by the town. The invert of the building sewer at
the point of connection shall be made at the same or higher level of elevation
than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and
the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special
fitting may be used for the connection only when approved by the town.
   (G)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Street, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (H)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the town. Pipe laying
and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM (C12-19) except that no
backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-8) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.57 WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY.
   (A)   Exclusion or restriction of unpolluted waters.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, any stormwater, surface water, ground
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process water.
      (2)   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (3)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the town. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, on approval of the town, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet. Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, sub-surface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation.
      (4)   No person shall use the sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made unless there is
capacity available to all downstream storm sewers. The town shall require the
removal of unpolluted water from any wastewater collection or treatment
facility if the removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all
users of those facilities.
      (5)   The town shall have the authority to require an owner of real
property to disconnect from a building sewer which drains into a sanitary sewer
any down spouts, basement subsurface drains, cistern overflows, yard drains or
other drains which carry the runoff of natural precipitation. Property owners
shall have 30 days after notice to comply with any like requirements.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-9)
   (B)   Discharge of certain substances prohibited; exception by special
agreement.
      (1)   The objective of these prohibitions and limitations are: to prevent
the introduction of pollutants into the municipality wastewater system which
will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the resulting
sludge; to prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal wastewater
system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
water or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system; and to
improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and sludges from the
system.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged to in any public sewer any of the following described
substances, wastes or waters:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 50 milligrams per
liter of compatible animal or vegetable fats, oils, greases or waxes of animal
or vegetable origin, whether emulsified or not hot, which may solidify or
become viscous at temperature between 32° and 150°F (0 and 65°C).
         (c)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, mineral or synthetic
oil, or any other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas of mineral origin
whether emulsified or not.
         (d)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either alone
or by integrating with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance
or hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair;
         (e)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground;
         (f)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, wood, metal,
glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, paunch manure, butchers’ offal or any
other solid or viscous substance capable of causing interference with the
proper operation of the sewerage system or the wastewater treatment plant;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes containing any identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six or higher than
nine or having any other property capable of causing damage or posing hazards
to the structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
         (i)   Any waters or wastes containing any toxic substances in
quantities that are sufficient to:
            1.   Interfere with the biochemical processes of the wastewater
treatment plant; or
            2.   Contaminate sewage sludge; or
            3.   That will pass through the plant into the receiving stream in
amounts exceeding the standards set by federal, interstate, state or other
competent authority having jurisdiction.
         (j)   Any waters or wastes containing iron or any other toxic ions,
compounds or substances in concentrations or amounts exceeding the limits
established from time to time by the Council, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, but in no event shall the limits exceed those set forth
in General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403) for Existing and New
Sources of Pollution published June, 1978, and Effluent Guidelines and
Standards pursuant to this document, or exceeding the limits and restrictions
set forth in the town’s NPDES permit;
         (k)   Any unusual volume of flow or concentration of waste
constituting “slugs” that for a duration of five minutes or more have a
concentration or flow of more than five times the average concentration of the
BOD, the suspended solids or flow of the customer’s sewage discharged during a
24-hour period of normal operation;
         (l)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids or dissolved
solids of a character and quantity that unusual provision, attention and
expense would be required to handle the materials at the wastewater treatment
plant, its pumping stations or other facilities;
         (m)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and refuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no
case, shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-
compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations
developed under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria,
guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air
Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or state criteria applicable to the sludge management
method being used; or
         (n)   In general, all or certain industrial wastes shall be excluded
when conditions are such that NPDES permit restrictions cannot be met.
      (3)   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because any of the
aforementioned substances were improperly discharged, the person responsible
for the discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the expenses incurred by
the town in cleaning out, repairing or rebuilding the sewer. However, no
statement contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any person whereby an
individual waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town
for treatment whether with or without pretreatment, provided that the agreement
does not violate National Categorical Pretreatment Standards for the specific
category of industrial user, provided that there is no impairment of the
functioning of the sewage works by reason of the admission of the wastes, and
provided that no extra costs are incurred by the town without recompense by the
person.
      (4)   Surcharges shall be imposed by the town for any compatible
pollutant discharged in excess of the limits set forth herein.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-10)
   (C)   Limitations on industrial wastes. The admission to the public sewers
for any wastes having:
      (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 200 parts per
million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 250 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
      (3)   Containing any quantity of substances described in division (B)
above; or
      (4)   Having an average daily flow greater than 25,000 gallons; shall be
subject to the review and approval of the town.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-11) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.58 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS; APPLICABILITY AND PRIORITY OF LOCAL, FEDERAL
AND STATE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where necessary in the opinion of the town, the owner shall provide,
at his or her expense, any preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce BOD and/or suspended solids to within limits prescribed
under §
53.57(C)(1) and (2);
      (2)   Reduce undesirable characteristics or constituents to within
maximum limits prescribed under §
53.57(B); or
      (3)   Provide control of flow equalization so as to avoid any “slug”
loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the sewage works.
   (B)   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if
more stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter. The town shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12. State requirements and limitations on
discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal
requirements and limitations or those in this chapter.
   (C)   Where the POTW achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by
federal pretreatment standards, the POTW may apply to the approval authority
for modification or specific limits in the federal pretreatment standards.
CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the amount of a pollutant or
alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater treatment system to
a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is achieved by the system
(95% of the samples taken) when measured according to the procedures set forth
in C.F.R. part 403, § 403.7(c)(2) “General Pretreatment Regulations for
Existing and New Sources of Pollution” promulgated pursuant to the Act.
   (D)   The town may then modify pollutant discharge limits in the federal
pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 403, §
403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is
obtained. Nothing in this section limits the right of the town to establish by
ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
presented in §
53.57(B).
(1985 Code, § 3-8-12) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.59 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
FACILITIES.
   (A)   When, after making a review, the town concludes that, before the
person discharges his or her wastes into the public sewers, he or she must
modify or eliminate those constituents which would be harmful to the
structures, processes or operations of the sewage works or injurious to health,
then the person shall either modify his or her wastes at the point of origin or
shall provide and operate at his or her own expense the preliminary treatment
or processing facilities as may be determined to be necessary to render his or
her wastes acceptable for admission to the public sewers. Appropriate
pretreatment technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks
or facilities, for protection against “slugs” that might interfere with or
otherwise be incompatible with the sewage works.
   (B)   Where there is reason to believe that the use of equalization tanks or
other facilities which have potential for dilution is resulting in dilution,
the Superintendent may impose mass limitations on the user employing the tanks
or other facilities. However, no user shall ever increase the use of process
water or in any way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with limitations
contained in the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other
pollutant-specific limitation developed by the town or state. (Comment:
Dilution may be an acceptable means of complying with some of the prohibitions
set forth in § 53.57(B), e.g., the pH prohibition.)
   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment and processing facilities shall be submitted to
the town for examination and approval, and no construction of the facilities
shall begin until the town has given its written approval. The approval shall
not exempt the person from the obligation to make further reasonable
adaptations of the facilities when those adaptations of the facilities prove
necessary to secure the results desired. Plans, specifications and other
pertinent information shall also be submitted to the Stream Pollution Control
Board for approval in accordance with Stream Pollution Control Board
Resolution, 330 I.A.C. 3-1 through 3-3 (formerly No. SPC 15). When the
preliminary treatment facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating condition by the person at
his or her own expense, and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town. The person shall maintain suitable operating records and shall submit to
the town the monthly summary reports of the character of the influent and
effluent as the latter may prescribe. The user shall notify the Superintendent
immediately of any slug loading as defined herein and in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-13) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.60 POWER OF TOWN TO IMPOSE FURTHER REGULATIONS.
   The town shall, in accordance with the statutes of the state, make and
enforce whatever bylaws, rules and regulations it may deem necessary for the
safe, economical and efficient management of the town’s sewage works, for the
construction and use of building sewers and connections to the sewage system,
and for the implementation of the provisions of this chapter in general.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-14) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.61 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; COMPLIANCE.
   Whenever the town finds that any user has violated or is violating or
failing to comply with this chapter, wastewater contribution permit, or any
prohibition, limitation of requirements contained herein, the town may serve
upon the person a written notice stating the nature of the violation, and
providing a reasonable time limit for its satisfactory correction. Unless a
lesser period for compliance is provided under §§
53.62 or
53.63 hereafter, within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted by the user. The offender
shall, within the period of the time stated in the notice, permanently cease
all violations.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-15) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.62 ADMISSIBILITY STANDARDS; ORDER FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   When the town finds that a discharge of wastewater has taken place in
violation of the admissibility requirements of this chapter, the town may issue
an order to cease and desist, and direct that those persons not complying with
the prohibitions, limits, requirements or provisions to:
      (1)   Comply forthwith;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a time schedule set forth by the town; or
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventative action in the event of a
threatened violation.
   (B)   The town may require the user to submit for approval a detailed time
schedule of specific actions which the user shall take in order to prevent or
correct a violation of requirements.
   (C)   When the town finds that a discharge of wastewater in violation of the
admissibility requirements of this chapter or otherwise causes or threatens to
cause a condition of pollution or nuisance, the town may petition the court for
the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction, or both, as may be
appropriate in restraining the continuance of the discharge.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-16) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.63 SUSPENSION OF SEWER SERVICE.
   The town may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater
contribution permit when the suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the
town, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes
violation to any condition of its NPDES permit. Any person notified of a
suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater
contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. In
the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the town shall take steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW
system or endangerment to any individuals. The town shall reinstate the
wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written
statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any further occurrence shall be
submitted to the Council within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-17) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.64 REVOCATION OF CONNECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   The town may terminate, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, wastewater service and/or a permit of any user who:
      (1)   Fails to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Fails to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refuses reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Violates conditions of the permit, provisions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (5)   Causes or threatens to cause a condition of pollution or nuisance
as defined in this chapter; or
      (6)   Causes the treatment works to violate its NPDES permit.
   (B)   This provision is in addition to other statutes, rules or regulations,
authorizing termination of service for delinquency in payment.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-18) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.65 APPEALS.
   Any user affected by any decision, action or determination, including cease
and desist orders, made by the town interpreting or implementing the provisions
of this chapter, or any permit issued herein, may file with the town a written
request for reconsideration within ten days of the decision, action or
determination, setting forth in detail the facts supporting the user’s request
for reconsideration.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-19) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.66 RIGHT OF ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY AND EASEMENTS FOR INSPECTION,
SAMPLING AND MAINTENANCE.
   The town, through its authorized agents, shall be permitted the following
rights of entry to private property:
   (A)   To enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. Entry shall normally be made during daylight or operating hours or at
reasonable times. The town shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways of facilities for waste treatment. While
performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in this
division (A), all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company shall be observed and the Town Council shall indemnify the company
against loss or damage to its property by town employees, and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions; and
   (B)   To enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-21) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.67 SUBCHAPTER IN COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN NPDES PERMIT.
   The town has been issued National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
Permit No. IN0040436 by the Environmental Protection Agency governing discharge
from a publicly owned treatment works. The provisions contained in this chapter
are set forth in accordance with the conditions relative to the permit and
directives of the Environmental Protection Agency. Reference is also made to §
53.55 above providing for a user charge system.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-22) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.68 SEPTIC TANKS PERMITTED IN SOME CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provisions or requirements under §
53.52(A) above, a septic tank may be constructed or maintained and used for
sewage disposal if:
      (1)   The premises are not required to be connected to the public sewer
under the provisions of §
53.52; or
      (2)   A sewer connection permit has been denied for the premises by
reason of inadequate capacity of the public sewer system or treatment plant;
and
      (3)   The septic tank and system meet all then current requirements as to
location (including soil absorption characteristics), design, construction, use
and maintenance as applicable under regulations imposed by town ordinance, any
applicable county ordinances, the State Board of Health, the EPA or other
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction, or by state or federal law.
   (B)   The authority to construct, maintain and use a septic tank as provided
above is temporary and conditional, and does not permit any person to continue
the maintenance and use beyond a time as connection to the public sewer would
be required under the provisions of §
53.52 above and adequate sewerage and treatment capacity is available to permit
the connection.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-23) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the stated time limit
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine in an amount of not less
than $2,500. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter and convicted thereof shall additionally become liable to the town for
expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
(1985 Code, § 3-8-20) (Ord. 11C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1981-13, passed 9-23-
1981)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Applicability and limitations
   
70.03   Maintenance of required traffic-control signs, signals and markings
   
70.04   Liability for violation of traffic regulations; service
   
70.05   Off-road vehicles
Traffic-Control
   
70.15   Savings clause
   
70.16   Wrong way on one-way
   
70.17   Tractor trailer truck route
   
70.18   No parking where posted
   
70.19   Unlawful parking in alley
   
70.20   Golf carts
   
70.21   Form of citation
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise indicated or defined, words and terms as used in respect to
traffic regulations adopted by the Town Council shall be construed to have the
same meanings as defined for the words and terms under the provisions of I.C.
9-13-2-1 through 9-13-2-201.
(1985 Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 4C-1985, passed - -)
§ 70.02 APPLICABILITY AND LIMITATIONS.
   The provisions and requirements of traffic regulations adopted by the Town
Council shall be deemed to apply to all vehicles unless otherwise expressly
provided or unless clearly inapplicable by virtue of the character of a
particular type of vehicle. However, publicly owned vehicles or authorized
emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the town regulations to the same degree
and under the same circumstances that they are exempt from equivalent state
traffic regulations under the provisions of I.C. 9-21-1-8. Town traffic
regulations, unless otherwise expressly limited as to area, apply to all
publicly maintained streets, alleys or other public ways and thoroughfares
within and under the jurisdiction of the town, but not to any area within the
right-of-way of a state highway or state-maintained route wherein regulation of
traffic is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the State Department of
Highways, nor upon private property (other than a public right-of-way easement)
unless permitted by law and so provided.
(1985 Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 4C-1985, passed - -)
§ 70.03 MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   Whenever any traffic control regulation is imposed with respect to any
designated intersection, portion of street, or other area and:
      (1)   Designates a street to be one-way;
      (2)   Regulates the speed of vehicles in any manner different from the
prima facie speed limit applicable by statute;
      (3)   Designates a stop or yield intersection;
      (4)   Restricts use of a street as to size, weight or type of vehicle;
      (5)   Regulates or prohibits the turning of vehicles;
      (6)   Restricts the parking, stopping or standing of vehicles; or
      (7)   Is any other traffic regulation requiring the erection of signs
pursuant to I.C. 9-21-4-2 or another statute.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or other officer so
directed by the Town Council to erect and maintain at the locations standard
traffic control signs, signals, markings or devices in accordance with the
Uniform Traffic Control Manual of the state.
   (C)   In the case of any regulation which is general in character and not
made to pertain to any particular intersection, portion of street, or other
designated location, the Street Commissioner may cause appropriate signs to be
erected at places wherein the Town Marshal finds that failure of persons to be
informed of and to observe the applicable regulation, and for the regulation to
be properly enforced, creates a substantial traffic hazard, traffic congestion
or public inconvenience.
(1985 Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 4C-1985, passed - -)
§ 70.04 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; SERVICE.
   (A)   In the case of any moving violation, the operator of a vehicle at the
time the violation occurs shall be cited and held liable for the violation.
   (B)   In the case of a nonmoving violation, the operator of the vehicle
having caused the violation shall be cited and held liable if the person is
present and can be identified; otherwise, the registered or acknowledged owner
or lessee of the offending vehicle shall be presumed liable for the violation.
   (C)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle which is in nonmoving violation
is not present at the scene when the violation is discovered, the citation may
be served by securely attaching the violator’s copy of same in a conspicuous
location on the vehicle.
(1985 Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 4C-1985, passed - -)
§ 70.05 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   An off-road vehicle (as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-185). It means a
motor driven vehicle capable of cross country travel:
         (a)   Without the benefit of a road or trail; and
         (b)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland,
or other natural terrain.
      (2)   An off-road vehicle includes the following:
         (a)   A multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle;
         (b)   An amphibious machine;
         (c)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle;
         (d)   An all-terrain vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7);
         (e)   A recreational off-highway vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-
223.5); or
         (f)   Other means of transportation deriving motive power from a
source other than muscle or wind.
      (3)   Off-road vehicle does not include the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle including an off road vehicle being used for
agricultural purposes;
         (b)   A vehicle being used for military or law enforcement purposes;
         (c)   A construction, mining or other industrial related vehicle used
in performance of the vehicle’s common function;
         (d)   A snowmobile;
         (e)   A registered aircraft;
         (f)   Any other vehicle properly registered by the bureau of motor
vehicles;
         (g)   Any watercraft that is registered under state statutes;
         (h)   A golf cart; or
         (i)   Any vehicle including off road vehicle that is being used by a
person suffering from a handicap or disability, if the handicapped or disabled
person is using the vehicle as a necessary means of transportation.
   (B)   An individual may operate an off road vehicle on a town street or
right-of-way if:
      (1)   The individual is at least 18 years old;
      (2)   The individual holds a valid driver’s license and said driving
privileges are not currently suspended by any state;
      (3)   The individual has proof of liability insurance in at least the
minimum amount required by the state;
      (4)   The off road vehicle is properly registered and displays any decals
as required by Hendricks County Board of Commissioners Ordinance 2020-52 and
state law; and
      (5)   The off road vehicle meets all equipment requirements under state
law.
   (C)   In addition, an individual may operate an off road vehicle:
      (1)   To cross a town street or right-of-way at right angles for the
purpose of getting from one area to another when the operation can be done
safely.
      (2)   As authorized by a law enforcement officer on a town street or
right-of-way during emergencies.
      (3)   On a town street or right-of-way for a special event if a pre-
arranged schedule has been approved by the appropriate law enforcement agency.
   (D)   Any individual operating an off road vehicle on a town street or
right-of-way shall operate the vehicle at a reasonable and safe speed and obey
all traffic rules of the state, Hendricks County and the town.
(Ord. 1-05, passed 10-6-2005; Ord. 2021-5, passed 7-1-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL
§ 70.15 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   (A)   In any instance where a reference is made in this title to any state
statute which has since been amended, repealed or replaced, the provision of
the code of ordinances shall be deemed amended to such an extent that it
comports with the current state statute then existing for governance of such
violation.
   (B)   Those provisions of
Chapter 34 that are not inconsistent herewith are hereby ratified and restated
as the law within the town.
   (C)   The provisions of
Chapter 34 that are inconsistent herewith are hereby amended so as to give
effect to both where possible. In all cases, the provisions of this title shall
control in interpreting the applicable law.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011)
§ 70.16 WRONG WAY ON ONE-WAY.
   A vehicle shall be driven upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-
way traffic only in the direction designated.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 TRACTOR TRAILER TRUCK ROUTE.
   The maximum weights of any tractor trailer operated on the streets or
highways within the town other than SR 75 and SR 236 may not exceed the
following limitations:
   (A)   A vehicle may not have a maximum wheel weight, unladen or with load,
in excess of 800 pounds per inch width of tire, measured between the flanges of
the rim, or an axle weight in excess of 22,400 pounds.
   (B)   The total weight concentrated on the roadway surface from any tandem
axle group may not exceed 18,000 pounds for each axle of the assembly.
   (C)   The total gross weight, with load, in pounds of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may not exceed 80,000 pounds.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   A person may not stop, stand, or park a vehicle at any place where official
signs or yellow curb striping prohibit parking.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNLAWFUL PARKING IN ALLEY.
   All dedicated alleyways are designated as fire lanes within the town limits.
A person may not stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a fire lane.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 GOLF CARTS.
   Golf carts may be driven upon the streets and highways of the town only on
the condition that they comply with all provisions of §
71.03 pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 FORM OF CITATION.
   In all cases, the form of the citation to be issued for a violation of this
subchpater shall be as set forth at §
34.13.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Unless stated otherwise, all violations of this chapter shall be punishable
by a fine of $50.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Gators and mules
   
71.02   Bicycles and skateboards
   
71.03   Golf carts
   
71.04   Recreational wheeled devices
Cross-reference:
   Off-road vehicles, see §
70.05
§ 71.01 GATORS AND MULES.
   A four- or six-wheeled gas- or electric-powered vehicle designed to seat two
to four persons, and carrying a short bed on the back, ordinarily used for
farming purposes and more commonly referred to as a “gator” or “mule” so long
as it is being driven in the course of conducting business, such as hauling
materials, tools or workers to and from a job site.
(Ord. 5-2009, passed 8-6-2009)
§ 71.02 BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS.
   Riding bicycles and skateboards on sidewalks in and out of the Business
District shall be done in a safe manner so as to promote the safety of both
pedestrians and the operators of bicycles and skateboards.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BICYCLE. Any two- or three-wheeled vehicle, propelled by any means of
foot pedals or a moped powered by a small engine.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area on Pearl Street (S.R. 236) from Nebraska
Street to Main Street (S.R. 75).
   (B)   All operators of bicycles and skateboards shall yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians on the sidewalks outside of the Business District.
   (C)   All operators of bicycles and skateboards shall obey all traffic laws
as set forth in the state statutes when operated on the streets and highways in
the town limits.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties provided by §
132.99, the Town Marshall may confiscate any bicycle or skateboard being
operated in violation of this section and held in the Town Marshall’s
possession for a reasonable time and thereafter released to the operator of the
bicycle or skateboard if the operator is an adult person or the parent or
guardian of any minor operator upon payment of any fine imposed for the
violation.
(Ord. 2-89, passed 4-4-1989; Ord. 1-92, passed 7-7-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GOLF CART.
      (1)   A vehicle which is primarily used on a golf course; or
      (2)   A small, gasoline or electric powered, three- or four-wheeled
vehicle used for transporting one or two golfers and their equipment around a
golf course.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a golf cart on any street
within the town limits without the following equipment.
      (1)   A slow moving vehicle triangle; or
      (2)   If the golf cart is driven between dusk and dawn, it must also have
the following equipment.
         (a)   Two permanently mounted and functioning headlights; and
         (b)   Two permanently mounted and functioning taillights.
   (C)   The driver of the golf cart must be a valid licensed driver to operate
the golf cart on any street or road within the town limits.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties provided by §
132.99, the Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal may impound the golf cart being
operated in violation of this section. The vehicle may be released from the
impound lot to an adult person or a parent or legal guardian, one of whom must
be a valid licensed driver. Any fine imposed by violation of this chapter must
also first be paid.
   (E)   lt shall be the responsibility of the owner to pay any fees imposed by
the impound lot.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 10-6-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 RECREATIONAL WHEELED DEVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area on Pearl Street (SR 236) from Nebraska Street
to Main Street (SR 75).
      RECREATIONAL WHEELED DEVICE. Tricycle, bicycle, moped, skateboard, roller
skates, and roller blades.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate or ride a recreational
wheeled device on any sidewalk in the Business District.
   (C)   All operators of recreational wheeled devices shall yield the right-
of-way to pedestrians on the sidewalks outside of the Business District.
   (D)   All operators of recreational wheeled devices shall obey all traffic
laws as set forth in the state statutes when operated on the streets and
highways in the town limits.
   (E)   In addition to the penalties §
132.99, the Town Marshal may confiscate any recreational wheeled device being
operated in violation of this section and held in the Town Marshal’s possession
for a reasonable time and thereafter released to the operator of the
recreational wheeled device if the operator is an adult person or the parent or
guardian of any minor operator upon payment of any fine imposed for the
violation.
(Ord. 1-99, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Leaving abandoned vehicle unlawful
   
72.03   Enforcement; towing and storage of abandoned vehicles
   
72.04   Abandoned vehicles; towing costs
   
72.05   Leaving junk vehicles in open view restricted
   
72.06   Junk vehicles; abatement of violations
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle defined as being abandoned by I.C. 9-13-2-1,
excepting those exempted under I.C. 9-22-1-1.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle, irrespective of model or age, which is so
mechanically or structurally deteriorated or has had necessary parts removed,
so that it is inoperable or may not be safely operated as a motor vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or part or appurtenance thereof, designed for use
as a conveyance on the public streets and highways, and which is required to be
licensed for use by the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-1) (Ord. 3C-1985, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 72.02 LEAVING ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be an unlawful act for any person to leave an abandoned vehicle
anywhere within the limits of the town for more than 72 hours after the time
that such vehicle is first declared to be abandoned and tagged as hereinafter
provided.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-2) (Ord. 3C-1985, passed 1-7-1985) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 ENFORCEMENT; TOWING AND STORAGE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Any police officer who has cause to believe that a vehicle is abandoned
shall attach a tag to the vehicle of a type and in the manner prescribed by
I.C. 9-22-1-11. If the vehicle is not then removed within 72 hours, the
officers shall cause the same to be removed in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1 and
shall notify the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in accordance with I.C. 9-22;
provided, however, that notwithstanding any provision of I.C. 9-22-1-14 nor the
officer’s estimated value of the vehicle, the same shall be towed and safely
stored, and regular notice shall be given to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in
the same manner as with any other abandoned vehicles. The officer shall cause
the vehicle to be removed and stored by a towing service with which the town
has a contract under §
72.04.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-3) (Ord. 3C-1985, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 72.04 ABANDONED VEHICLES; TOWING COSTS.
   On or before December 31 of each year, the Town Council shall enter into a
contract with one or more vehicle towing and storage services for the removal
and storage of abandoned vehicles. The contract shall stipulate a schedule of
costs and charges to apply under the contract, and a copy thereof shall be
filed with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in accordance with I.C. 9-22. The owner
of the vehicle shall be liable for paying all the costs to the vehicle towing
and storage service upon and as a condition of reclaiming the vehicle, or in
default thereof the costs shall be the liability of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles from the state abandoned vehicle account and not a liability of the
town.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-4) (Ord. 3C-1985, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 72.05 LEAVING JUNK VEHICLES IN OPEN VIEW RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave a junk vehicle parked on any
public property, except temporarily in an emergency and due to mechanical
failure while driving the vehicle; or to leave the vehicle on private property
other than in an enclosed building or other area screened from public view for
any continuous period longer than 14 days.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-5) (Ord. 3C-1985, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 72.06 JUNK VEHICLES; ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any junk vehicle left on public property in violation of §
72.05 shall be deemed prima facie an abandoned vehicle as provided by I.C. 9-22
and shall be abated in accordance with §
72.03. A junk vehicle left on private property in violation of §
72.05 may be abated in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or I.C. 36-1-6-4, and the
owner of the property shall be liable for all costs of the abatement in
addition to any penal fine which may be incurred under §
72.05.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-6) (Ord. 3C-1985, passed 1-7-1985) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who leaves an abandoned vehicle in violation of §
72.02 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100, in
addition to any costs for towing and storage of the vehicle.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-2)
   (C)   Any person violating §
72.05 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $25 or more than $50 for each
day that a violation continues.
(1985 Code, § 7-5-5)
(Ord. 3C-1985, passed 1-7-1985)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum allowable speed limit on all streets and highways within
the town limits with the exception of SR 75 and SR 236 shall hereafter be 25
miles per hour unless otherwise posted as a school, park or cemetery zone.
   (B)   Fines.
 
Miles Per Hour Over Limit Fee
1 - 10                    $50
11 - 15                   $65
16 - 20                   $75
21 - 25                   $100
26 +                      $125
 
(1985 Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 4C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   One-way and two-way stop intersections established; preferential
streets. The following named or described streets, alleys or other
thoroughfares, as indicated in the following table, are designated as “stop”
streets at their point of intersection with the correspondingly designated
preferential (“through”) street, and all vehicles approaching the intersection
along the stop street must come to a complete stop and give safe right-of-way
to any vehicles on the preferential street before entering the intersection:
Stop Street Preferential Street
Stop Street Preferential Street
Vine        West
Minnesota   West
Vine        Center
Minnesota   Center
Center      Wabashaw
Vine        McKinley
Minnesota   McKinley
Wabashaw    McKinley
McKinley    Railroad
California  Ladoga
Crop        California
Short       California
Vine        California
Minnesota   California
Wabash      California
California  Railroad
Nebraska    Ladoga
Crop        Nebraska
Short       Nebraska
Vine        Nebraska
Minnesota   Nebraska
Nebraska    Railroad
Broadway*   Ladoga
Short       Broadway
Vine        Broadway
Minnesota   Broadway
Stop requirement includes traffic using right-turn by-pass lane
 
(1985 Code, § 7-4-1)
   (B)   Three-way and four-way stop intersections established. The following
described intersections are declared to be three-way or four-way stop
intersections, and all vehicles approaching the intersection from any direction
shall come to a complete stop before entering the intersection, and must yield
safe right-of-way to any other vehicle which has already stopped at or entered
the intersection: Broadway X Railroad.
(1985 Code, § 7-4-2)
   (C)   Violation of stop regulations; penalties and enforcement. Any person
failing to observe a stop sign or signal as established under divisions (A) or
(B) above shall be cited and prosecuted for a town ordinance violation pursuant
to I.C. 34-28-5-2, and shall be liable to a fine of $50. Fines may not be paid
directly to the Clerk-Treasurer, but may be paid in settlement of the complaint
to the Clerk of the court in which the complaint is filled in accordance with §
34.13.
(1985 Code, § 7-4-3)
(Ord. 4C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 2-2011, passed 8-4-2011)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Limited parking
Cross-reference:
   Parking of idling trucks and other vehicles for extended periods, see §
96.05
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park any vehicle in the following described areas
for any continuous period of time greater than that herein indicated: 12-hour
parking limit: a vehicle may not be parked for longer than 12 hours in the
following areas: in the municipal parking lot located on lot #6 as shown in the
original plat of the town.
   (B)   Any person violating the parking limits as established in this section
shall be liable to a fine of $10 for each offense, and each day that a
violation continues is a separate offense. Fines imposed under this section
may, within five business days of the violation, be paid directly to the Clerk-
Treasurer in settlement of the complaint in accordance with §
34.03(A).
(1985 Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 4C-1985, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   RUBBISH AND UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCES
      
93.   ANIMAL PROVISIONS
      
94.   BURNING REGULATIONS
      
95.   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
      
96.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
97.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Closing time of North Salem Memorial Park
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 CLOSING TIME OF NORTH SALEM MEMORIAL PARK.
   The North Salem Memorial Park, located at 100 East Pearl Street, shall close
to the public each day at sunset and shall open each morning at sunrise. It
shall be unlawful for any person of any age to be within the boundaries of the
North Salem Memorial Park between the time of sunset and sunrise.
(1985 Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 12C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 1-1977, passed 5-3-1977;
Ord. 1-1995, passed 2-7-1995; Ord. 2017-2, passed 9-7-2017; Ord. 2018-3, passed
7-5-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
90.01 shall be fined in any amount from $25, but not exceeding $50.
(1985 Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 1-1977, passed 5-3-1977; Ord. 12C-1984, passed - -;
Ord. 1-1995, passed 2-7-1995)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
91.01   Permit required to cut, repair or alter streets, alleys, sidewalks and
curbs
   
91.02   Permit application procedure and fee; requirements of permit; optional
bond requirement
   
91.03   Liability of property owners; improvements to abutting sidewalks
   
91.04   Liability of property owners to clear abutting sidewalks
   
91.05   Dead, diseased or damaged trees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Golf carts, see §
71.03
   Off-road vehicles, see §
70.05
   Recreational wheeled devices, see §
71.04
§ 91.01 PERMIT REQUIRED TO CUT, REPAIR OR ALTER STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS AND
CURBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, repair, alter, destroy,
cut or in any way molest or change any sidewalk, curb, street or alley or part
thereof without first notifying the Town Council of that intention and
obtaining its proper written consent therefor, subject to conditions
stipulated, explained and set out in the application. However, this section and
the requirements of §
91.02 do not apply to work required to be performed under §
91.03.
(1985 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 12C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 56(2), passed 12- -1950)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND FEE; REQUIREMENTS OF PERMIT; OPTIONAL
BOND REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The written application or other written instrument referred to in §
91.01 above shall be made at the Town Hall and shall contain the following:
      (1)   An explanation, in detail (to the satisfaction of the Town Council)
of changes which will in any way affect the present condition of the sidewalk,
curb, street or alley;
      (2)   A written promise and agreement on the part of the applicant that
all work will be done in accordance with and subject to approval by the Town
Council and all requirements, conditions and specifications made by the
Council;
      (3)   A written promise and agreement that all affected sidewalks, curbs,
streets or alleys shall at all times be placed or replaced in as good a
condition as they were before, and in case of damage, that the applicant will
indemnify the town against any liability, loss or damage arising from or
growing out of the work done; and
      (4)   A stipulation that the applicant will be responsible for any damage
done to persons or to property in doing the work described in the application.
   (B)   The Town Council, at its discretion and as a condition of granting the
application, may require the applicant to post a performance bond running in
favor of the town and/or an insurance policy with the town as named insured in
an amount sufficient, in the judgment of the Town Council, to restore the
affected street, alley, curb or sidewalk to its original condition, or to other
condition as specified in the plans approved by the Council, should the
applicant fail to do so in a satisfactory and timely manner, and to indemnify
the town from any damages or liability claims. A person applying for a permit
under this section shall pay to the town a nonrefundable application fee of $15
to cover costs of processing.
(1985 Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 12C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 56(2), passed 12- -1950)
§ 91.03 LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS; IMPROVEMENTS TO ABUTTING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility and obligation of each property owner,
at his or her own expense, to make all necessary, proper and reasonable
construction, reconstruction, repair, improvement and alteration of all
sidewalks abutting his or her property.
   (B)   Whenever the Town Council determines that construction, repair,
alteration or other improvement of a sidewalk or curb, either original or
replacement, is required for the public interest within the town, it may:
      (1)   Adopt and file plans and specifications for the sidewalk
improvement and a preliminary resolution therefor in accordance with I.C. 36-9-
36;
      (2)   Adopt and file estimated costs of the improvement in accordance
with I.C. 36-9-36-5;
      (3)   Schedule, and publish and send notice of, a public hearing for
interested persons concerning the proposed improvement in accordance with I.C.
36-9-36-8;
      (4)   Conduct the public hearing and determine that proposed sidewalk
improvement will provide special benefits to abutting properties in value equal
to or greater than the estimated costs of the proposed improvements;
      (5)   Adopt a final resolution in accordance with I.C. 36-9-36-13, or, if
a remonstrance against the final resolution is filed within ten days of its
adoption as provided by I.C. 36-9-36-14, the Town Council may adopt an
ordinance by a two-thirds vote, determining the need to proceed with the
proposed improvements and ordering owners of abutting properties to make the
prescribed improvement, at the expense of the owners, within 30 days (or within
a longer period if so determined and expressly allowed in the final resolution
or ordinance adopted by the Council) after service of notice as provided in
division (B)(6) below, and as provided by I.C. 36-9-36-17; and
      (6)   Direct an appropriate town officer to serve notice, either in
person or by mail, of an order adopted under division (B)(5) above and
specifying the required improvements and time period for making same, upon
affected owners of abutting properties.
   (C)   If any owner of abutting property fails to satisfactorily complete the
prescribed sidewalk improvements as they pertain to the area abutting his or
her property within the period allowed and in accordance with the plans and
specifications adopted by the Council under division (B)(1) above, the town may
make the required improvement, and an assessment therefor, apportioned in
accordance with I.C. 36-9-36-19, shall be prepared against the noncomplying
property owner in accordance with the procedures set forth in I.C. 36-9-36-19.
However, if an appeal by 40% of affected property owners is filed with the
Circuit or Superior Court for the county within five days of a final order for
the improvement under division (B)(5) above in accordance with I.C. 36-9-36-15,
the period for compliance with the order shall not commence nor shall any
property owner be required to comply until the court has issued a final
judgment upholding the Town Council’s order. Nothing in this section is
intended to limit the powers of the town to make or cause to be made any
necessary improvements to sidewalks or other public facilities, or to make
payments or assessments therefor, by other lawful means and procedures instead
of those set forth in this section.
(1985 Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 12C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 56(2), passed 12- -1950)
§ 91.04 LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO CLEAR ABUTTING SIDEWALKS.
   Every person shall make all reasonable effort to clear public sidewalks
abutting his or her property of snow, ice, mud, windfalls and other obstacles
which may pose a hazard to users of the sidewalk.
(1985 Code, § 4-2-4) (Ord. 12C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 56(2), passed 12- -1950)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 DEAD, DISEASED OR DAMAGED TREES.
    The Town Council shall order the trimming or cutting of trees when it is
deemed a necessity to protect the health, welfare or general well-being of the
citizens of the town or to otherwise prevent property damage. When the Town
Council or its appointed representative determines that a tree is to be trimmed
or taken down, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of doing so.
Trees to be cut shall be between the street and the town sidewalks or, in the
absence of a sidewalk, within the legal planting strip per state statute. In an
effort to save both the town and the property owner as much as possible, the
Street Superintendent shall get no less than two quotes from tree trimmers
whenever a tree is to be cut.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be fined in an amount not less than $25, nor more than $50 for each day that a
violation continues, and shall additionally be liable to the town for any
damages to town property or other costs resulting from the violation.
(1985 Code, § 4-2-5) (Ord. 12C-1984, passed - -; Ord. 56(2), passed 12- -1950)
CHAPTER 92: RUBBISH AND UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCES
Section
   
92.01   Keeping dead animals on premises prohibited
   
92.02   Accumulation of garbage or decaying vegetable matter prohibited
   
92.03   Prohibition of unwholesome substances generally
   
92.04   Disposal of unwholesome substances to public or adjacent property
prohibited
   
92.05   Unwholesome premises declared nuisance; enforcement; notice to abate
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 KEEPING DEAD ANIMALS ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dead animal to remain
on his or her premises for more than six hours after knowing or being informed
that the same is there.
   (B)   However, if the animal did not belong to the owner or person having
possession of the premises where it shall have been found, he or she shall
immediately notify the Town Marshal and give the name of the owner of the dead
animal, if known.
   (C)   The Marshal shall then notify the owner thereof and direct him or her
to dispose of same according to law.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-1985, passed - -; Ord.
passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE OR DECAYING VEGETABLE MATTER PROHIBITED.
   It shall constitute a nuisance for any person to maintain any decaying
vegetable matter or any unreasonable accumulation of garbage.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-1985, passed - -; Ord.
passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PROHIBITION OF UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCES GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any noxious, foul, putrid or
unhealthy substance to remain on his or her premises more than six hours after
knowing or being informed that the same is there.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-1985, passed - -; Ord.
passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DISPOSAL OF UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCES TO PUBLIC OR ADJACENT PROPERTY
PROHIBITED.
   No person may discharge, place, throw or allow to flow from any premises
into the street, an alley, or upon a sidewalk, or adjacent premises, or upon
any vacant lot, grounds or public commons in the town, any noxious, foul,
putrid or unhealthy substance, nor direct or permit any of the foregoing to
occur.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-1985, passed - -; Ord.
passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 UNWHOLESOME PREMISES DECLARED NUISANCE; ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Any premises or part thereof within the corporate limits of the town which
may become noxious, foul, offensive or unhealthy to the neighborhood or to
persons passing along the streets or alleys near the same, or dangerous to the
public health or likely to become so, is hereby declared a nuisance. It shall
be the duty of the Marshal from time to time to enter and examine, at any time
between the hours of sunrise and sunset, any building or premises which he or
she believes to be in a condition dangerous to the public health. If he or she
finds the same to be in such condition, he or she shall order the owner or
occupant to cleanse the same within 24 hours.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-1985, passed - -; Ord.
passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who permits any premises which he or she owns or occupies to
remain in a condition as prohibited in this chapter, and fails or refuses to
abate same after being notified by the Town Marshal as provided by §
92.05 above, or who fails or refuses to remove and dispose of a dead animal
belonging to him or her after being notified to do so in accordance with §
92.01 above, commits a penal violation, and shall be liable to a fine of not
less than $50, nor more than $100 for each day that the violation continues
unabated.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-1985, passed - -; Ord.
passed 5-5-1948)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMAL PROVISIONS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
93.01   Keeping of offensive animals constituting public nuisance prohibited
   
93.02   Permitting animals to defecate on public or private property
prohibited; exception
   
93.03   Running at large prohibited
   
93.04   Dangerous animals prohibited
   
93.05   Limit to the number of dogs and/or cats per household within town
limits
   
93.06   Keeping/feeding of wild animals prohibited
   
93.07   Animal Control Officer defined; duties
Regulation and Restriction of Livestock
   
93.20   Definitions
   
93.21   Keeping livestock; running at large
   
93.22   Disposition of livestock running at large
   
93.23   Priority and limitations; supplementary character with respect to
zoning
 
   
93.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 93.01 KEEPING OF OFFENSIVE ANIMALS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor or keep any animal which behaves in such
manner or is otherwise disposed as described below so as to constitute a public
nuisance.
   (B)   By biting, scratching, digging, jumping, running, frolicking,
urinating, defecating, vomiting or otherwise injures, damages, soils, defaces
or befouls any person, lawn, tree, shrub, plant, building, street, sidewalk or
other public or private property without permission of the property owner or
person in charge of the property, except as provided in §
93.02.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011; Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-1-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 PERMITTING ANIMALS TO DEFECATE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No owner, keeper or person having charge of any animal shall knowingly
permit the animal to defecate on the property, either public or private, of
another without the owner, keeper or person having charge of any such animal
having in his or her possession the necessary tools or equipment to remove the
fecal matter immediately. However, the restriction as to defecating imposed by
§
93.01 or by this section shall not be applicable to public property nor to
private property other than that of the owner, keeper or person having charge
of any such animal when the owner, keeper or person having charge of any such
animal immediately and completely removes all feces deposited by the animal and
disposes of same in a sanitary manner, nor to cases in which service dogs are
leading legally blind persons.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   The owner or person having charge of any animal within the town limits shall
at all times keep the animal confined upon the premises of the owner or person
in charge or under absolute physical control when off the premises. All animals
when off the premises of the owner or person having charge shall be restrained
by a leash or lead not exceeding ten feet in length.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the town limits any
dangerous animal. If any dangerous animal escapes from the person having charge
or control of the animal, and the animal without provocation endangers,
destroys or constitutes a danger to human life or the life of any other animal
or property and cannot be immediately and safely recaptured, it shall be
destroyed by any Law Enforcement Officer or County Humane Officer.
   (B)   Any person is authorized to kill or attempt to kill by the most
expeditious means available any vicious or dangerous animal which he or she
reasonably believes is, without provocation, attacking or threatening to attack
him or her or another person or domestic animal. However, a private citizen
acting under this section shall immediately notify the Town Police Department
of his or her action and the reasons therefor, giving his or her name and
address.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 LIMIT TO THE NUMBER OF DOGS AND/OR CATS PER HOUSEHOLD WITHIN TOWN
LIMITS.
   (A)   No household within the town limits shall have more than four dogs or
cats or combination thereof which animals are six months of age or older.
   (B)   Upon written notice from the Town Marshal, any resident in violation
of this section shall have 30 days to remove such number dog(s) and/or cat(s)
in order to comply with this section.
   (C)   Any resident not in compliance within 30 days after receiving written
notice from the Town Marshal shall be subject to a fine as per the fines
outlined in §
93.99. In addition to any fines imposed, the town may bring an action in the
Circuit or Superior Court of the county for mandatory injunction requiring
compliance with this section.
   (D)   In the event the town is successful in any legal action requiring a
mandatory injunction, the respondent/defendant shall be responsible for all
costs of the action, including attorney fees.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 KEEPING/FEEDING OF WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   With the exception of maintaining bird houses and/or feeders, it shall be
unlawful for any person to keep or feed any wild animal within the corporate
limits of the town including but not necessarily limited to skunks, opossums,
raccoons or other vermin.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER DEFINED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer(s) shall be the Town Marshal, the Deputy
Town Marshal(s), the Reserve Town Marshal(s), Street Superintendent and any
other person(s) so appointed by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer(s) identified in division (A) shall have
the authority to enforce the provisions of this subchapter by the issuance of
citations for ordinance violations, the taking of complaints, informal efforts
at ordinance compliance without the necessity of issuing citations and the
taking of animals into custody for safekeeping, transport to a humane shelter
or disposal pursuant to the terms of the ordinance or applicable state statute.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
REGULATION AND RESTRICTION OF LIVESTOCK
§ 93.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIVESTOCK. Any cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, horses, poultry, waterfowl or
similar animals which are customarily bred, raised, kept or maintained for
purposes of animal husbandry, irrespective of whether any particular such
animal is actually kept for those purposes or for some other purpose.
   TO RUN AT LARGE. For a livestock animal to be loose upon public property or
in a public area, or upon private property other than that of the animal’s
owner or keeper and without the consent of the owner of the private property,
without direct and responsible human control and supervision.
(1985 Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 6C-1984, passed 11-29-1984; Ord. 1-2008, passed 5-1-
2008)
§ 93.21 KEEPING LIVESTOCK; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to do the following within the corporate
limits of the town:
   (A)   Keep and maintain any livestock on any property; or
   (B)    Knowingly or negligently permit his or her livestock to run at large;
   (C)   Chickens. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 93.20 which remain in
full force and effect, chickens shall be allowed to be kept in the town on
parcels of land located within the town limits in strict accordance with all of
the following requirements:
      (1)   A chicken is a gallus gallus domesticus, a domestic bird typically
kept on a farm. This definition does not include other fowl, such as, but not
limited to, peacocks, turkeys or waterfowl.
      (2)   No roosters (male chickens) shall be kept under the provisions of
this section.
      (3)   There shall be no more than 15 chickens on any parcel.
      (4)   Chickens must be kept completely and securely enclosed and under
the control of the owner and on the owner's property at all times. No renters
may harbor chickens.
      (5)   A chicken coop, an enclosed structure for harboring chickens that
provides shelter from the elements, shall be provided. The chicken coop must
provide adequate sun, shade and ventilation and must be impermeable to rodents,
wild birds, and predators, including cats and dogs. No chicken coop shall
exceed 75 total square feet in size. No chicken coop shall be more than ten
feet in height.
      (6)   Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water
always.
      (7)   All feed for said chickens shall be stored in containers to protect
against intrusion by rodents and vermin.
      (8)   The chicken coop shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and in
compliance with the applicable health regulations of the State of Indiana,
Hendricks County and the town.
      (9)   Chickens and chicken coops shall be confined to the rear yard of
the property.
      (10)   Any chickens kept in accordance with the provisions of this
section shall be for non-commercial, personal use only.
      (11)   Any violation of this §
93.21(C) shall be subject to applicable penalties set forth in §
93.99(B).
   (D)   Horses. Not withstanding the provisions of §
93.20 which remain in full force and effect, horses shall be allowed to be kept
in the town on parcels of land located within the town limits in strict
accordance with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Not less than 1.5 acres of securely fenced pasture shall be
provided for each horse kept and maintained within the town.
      (2)   There shall be no more than two horses on any parcel.
      (3)   Horses must be kept completely and securely enclosed and under the
control of the owner and on the owner’s property at all times. No renters may
keep or maintain horses.
      (4)   Any violation of this division (D) shall be subject to applicable
penalties set forth in §
93.99(B).
(1985 Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 6C-1984, passed 11-29-1984; Ord. 1-2008, passed 5-1-
2008; Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-3-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 9-1-2022) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.22 DISPOSITION OF LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   If any livestock animal is found running at large in violation of §
93.21 above, the Town Marshal or his or her deputies may impound and take
custody of the animal, and shall promptly notify the owner of that action (if
known), or shall post a notice giving the time and place of impoundment and a
description of the animal in one public place in each Council member district
of the town and shall send a copy of the notice to the County Sheriff.
   (B)   The owner of the animal, upon giving satisfactory identification and
proof of ownership at the office of the Town Marshal, may reclaim his or her
animal within five days of its impoundment, but shall pay to the town all costs
incurred for custody and boarding of the animal. If the animal is not reclaimed
within the above prescribed period, it shall be presumed abandoned and shall be
deemed the property of the town subject only to the reserved claim of the
original owner as hereinafter provided for, and the Town Marshal may sell the
animal in accordance with I.C. 36-1-11-6(b) or 36-1-11-6(c), as applicable. All
cost of conducting the sale and/or of boarding the animal prior to sale shall
be paid from the sale proceeds, and any remaining proceeds shall be deposited
and held in reserve in the Special Deposit Fund one year of the animal’s
impoundment. The owner’s claim on the town shall be limited to the amount so
held in reserve, notwithstanding any allegations as to the actual value of the
animal nor the worth of its use while in possession of the town. If any money
held in reserve is not claimed within one year, it shall escheat absolutely to
the town and shall be transferred to the General Fund. However, the Marshal or
his or her deputies may immediately destroy any livestock running at large if,
in his or her opinion, it poses a present hazard to persons or property and
cannot be quickly and safely captured by ordinary and available means; and in
that event, the owner shall have no claim against the town for the value of the
animal, but may claim possession of the carcass at any time before it is
otherwise disposed of by the town.
(1985 Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 6C-1984, passed 11-29-1984)
§ 93.23 PRIORITY AND LIMITATIONS; SUPPLEMENTARY CHARACTER WITH RESPECT TO
ZONING.
   Nothing herein is intended nor shall be construed to create an exception to
nor authorize the keeping of livestock in contravention of any provision of any
zoning ordinance as now or hereafter made applicable within the town, and which
would prohibit or place further or more strict regulations upon the keeping of
livestock in any area or zoning district within the town. The provisions of
this act are supplementary and in addition to any zoning ordinance, and the
strictest standard shall prevail.
(1985 Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 6C-1984, passed 11-29-1984)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
93.01 through
93.07 shall be liable for all reasonable and customary expenses incurred by the
town resulting from the violation, including but not limited to reimbursement
for food, board or disposal of the animal. Any violation shall be fined in the
amount of $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense and $75 for the
third offense. Any violations in excess thereof, the person shall be fined no
more than $2,500. A separate fineable offense shall be deemed committed on each
day that violation occurs or continues. Any nuisance created by any animal
under §§
93.01 through
93.07 shall be enjoined or abated.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
93.21 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $100, and
each day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense. In addition to
the fine, a violator shall also be liable for costs as provided under §
93.22, if applicable. The town may additionally seek an injunction under I.C.
36-1-6-4 to prevent any continuing violation of §
93.21.
(1985 Code, § 9-3-2)
(Ord. 6C-1984, passed 11-29-1984; Ord. 1-2011, passed 8-4-2011)
CHAPTER 94: BURNING REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Time of burning leaves restricted
   
94.02   Leaf burning on paved streets and alleys prohibited
   
94.03   Reasonable prudence and precautions required when burning leaves
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 TIME OF BURNING LEAVES RESTRICTED.
   No person may burn leaves in any outdoor area within the town, other than
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any day. All the leaf fires
must be completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 8C-1984, passed 12-4-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 LEAF BURNING ON PAVED STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves, or to rake and pile
leaves for the purpose of burning same, upon the paved portion of any paved
public street or alley within the town.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 8C-1984, passed 12-4-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 REASONABLE PRUDENCE AND PRECAUTIONS REQUIRED WHEN BURNING LEAVES.
   Any person burning leaves in the town in any area shall do so only with the
exercise of reasonable prudence and precautions to prevent the danger of the
fire spreading. This prudence and precautions shall include provision for
responsible supervision of the fire, and consideration of factors such as
proximity to building or flammable materials, dryness of surrounding grass or
other vegetation, and existing or forecasted wind conditions. If the Town
Marshal or the Chief of any fire department providing fire protection service
to the town, or their authorized deputies or representatives, observes that any
person is burning leaves without, in their opinion, exercising prudence and
precautions as required by this section, he or she shall order the person to
immediately correct the condition or extinguish the fire, and failure to comply
shall constitute penal violation.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-3) (Ord. 8C-1984, passed 12-4-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.03 hereof shall be liable to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than
$100, and shall additionally be liable for any cost to the town for damages to
public property caused through any violation of §
94.02.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-4) (Ord. 8C-1984, passed 12-4-1984)
CHAPTER 95: WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
Section
   
95.01   Unlawful maintenance of weeds and vegetation
   
95.02   Standards of compliance
   
95.03   Periodic inspection; duty of Town Marshal
   
95.04   Enforcement procedure; duty of Clerk-Treasurer; costs
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 UNLAWFUL MAINTENANCE OF WEEDS AND VEGETATION.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the town,
whether improved or unimproved, to permit to grow and remain thereon any weeds,
thistle, brush, undergrowth or rank vegetation of any kind whatsoever in
violation of the standards established by §
95.02. It is the duty of the owner of the property to cut or require a
leaseholder or other person in charge of the premises to cut and remove and
dispose in a proper manner all the weeds and rank vegetation at sufficient
intervals to keep the property in compliance with the standards set by §
95.02.
(1985 Code, § 9-5-1) (Ord. 9C-1985, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 STANDARDS OF COMPLIANCE.
   A lot or parcel will be adjudged in noncompliance with the requirements of
this chapter if, at any time during the year:
   (A)   It is a tract between any public sidewalk and a pubic street, and
weeds or other rank vegetation (including lawn grass) has been permitted to
grow to a height of more than six inches;
   (B)   It is an improved lot or parcel, and weeds or other rank vegetation
(including lawn grass) has been permitted to grow to a height of more than six
inches; or
   (C)   It is a vacant and unimproved lot or parcel, other than natural forest
lands, wetlands or agricultural pasture lands, and weeds or other rank
vegetation has been permitted to grow to a height of more than one foot.
(1985 Code, § 9-5-2) (Ord. 9C-1985, passed - -)
§ 95.03 PERIODIC INSPECTION; DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   Within one week before or after May 15 and September 15 of each year, the
Town Marshal shall make an inspection of every lot or parcel of land in the
town to determine compliance with this chapter, but may also make an inspection
at any other time if he or she believes, by virtue of a complaint or for any
other good reason, that a property is not in compliance. The Town Marshal shall
make a list identifying the location of any lot or parcel found to be in
violation, and may collect corroborative evidence such as vegetation samples or
photographs including a recognizable scale object, and shall promptly deliver
the same to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1985 Code, § 9-5-3) (Ord. 9C-1985, passed - -)
§ 95.04 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; DUTY OF CLERK-TREASURER; COSTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a list of noncomplying properties from the Town
Marshal as provided by §
95.03, the Clerk-Treasurer shall determine the name and address of the owner of
each noncomplying lot or parcel as listed on the tax abstracts in the office of
the County Auditor, or by any other reliable means, and shall prepare a written
notice to the owner stating that his or her property, adequately identified by
location, has been found to harbor weeds and rank vegetation in violation of
this chapter, and that if the same are not cut and properly removed within five
days of receipt of the notice, the weeds and rank vegetation will be cut and
removed by the town at the owner’s expense, and that he or she will further be
subject to penalties for violation as hereafter provided.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall direct the Town Marshal to serve the notice
upon the owner personally if the owner is a resident of the town, but if the
owner is not a resident of the town and the notice cannot be conveniently
served in person, the notice shall be sent by registered mail with return
receipt of delivery.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall advise the Town Marshal of the date of
service or delivery of the notice, and on the sixth day after that date or as
soon after that as possible, the Town Marshal shall reinspect the lot or parcel
to determine if it has been brought into compliance. If not, he or she shall
cause the weeds and rank vegetation to be cut and removed either by the town or
a private contractor, keeping a careful record of the actual costs of the
cutting and removal, including personnel time if town employees are used. The
record of costs shall be promptly provided to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
then prepare a certified statement of the costs incurred by the town, and shall
cause same to be served or delivered to the property owner in the same manner
as the original notice of violation.
   (D)   If the costs are not paid within ten days of service or delivery of
the certified statement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify a copy of the
statement to the County Auditor, who shall collect and disburse the amount
claimed to the town at the same time and in the same manner as taxes on the
property are collected and disbursed, all as provided by I.C. 36-7-10-3(b).
   (E)   In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be issued a complaint
and summons citing the property owner for a penal violation of this chapter,
and specifying each day elapsing between the expiration of the five-day period
after the owner’s receipt of the original notice of violation and the day when
the weeds and vegetation are finally cut and removed to be a separate offense
and violation, as hereafter provided. The complaint and summons shall be served
and prosecuted in the same manner as for other town ordinance violations.
(1985 Code, § 9-5-4) (Ord. 9C-1985, passed - -)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any property owner who is given notice of noncompliance, and who shall fail
to bring his or her property into compliance with this chapter within five days
after receipt of the notice as provided by §
95.04 above, commits a penal violation of this chapter, and upon conviction
shall be fined in an amount not less than $25 nor more than $50, and each day
that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
The penalties provided by and imposed pursuant to this section are in addition
to any costs collected for bringing the affected property into compliance.
(1985 Code, § 9-5-5) (Ord. 9C-1985, passed - -)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Public nuisances and littering
   
96.02   Conditions defined as public nuisances
   
96.03   Notice to abate nuisance
   
96.04   Remedial action to abate a damaged building or structure to be taken
within 24 hours
   
96.05   Parking of idling trucks and other vehicles for extended periods
Enforcement
   
96.15   Failure of owner or occupant to correct noncompliance; costs of removal
   
96.16   Lien; delinquent accounts
   
96.17   Civil action; foreclosure for nonpayment
   
96.18   Legal remedies
   
96.19   Transfer of ownership
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE AND LITTERING.
   All owners or persons in control of real property in the town shall be under
a duty to remove or cause to be abated any public nuisance on such real estate
owned or controlled by such persons including such real estate as includes the
parkway or other strip of ground lying between private property and the curb or
paved portion of the town streets.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 CONDITIONS DEFINED AS PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following conditions are hereby defined as public nuisances:
   (A)   Whenever weeds or rank vegetation are on property and are not cut or
otherwise eliminated as provided by Chapter 95. It is further provided that §
95.04 is hereby amended to provide that the costs of abatement incurred by the
town are to now be collected pursuant to the terms and conditions of I.C. 36-7-
10.1-4 or, upon it revision or repeal, any statute designated by law as the
successor statute thereto.
   (B)   Whenever any vegetation exists on private property in close proximity
to any municipal property or governmental right-of-way or easement which
because of its location, size or condition interferes with the public safety or
lawful use of such property, right-of-way or easement.
   (C)   Whenever any sign, structure, tree, shrub, vine or plant may be
standing adjacent to any public street, so as to obstruct thereby the vision of
travelers along such street.
   (D)   Whenever any dead, decayed, broken or dangerous limbs overhang or are
close to a public way.
   (E)   Whenever any tree or other vegetation may overhang the surface of a
public way below a clear height of at least eight feet so as to interfere with
the passage of light from the street lighting system.
   (F)   Whenever any building or premises is not maintained in a clean,
orderly or sanitary manner in compliance with any federal, state or local law,
ordinance or regulation.
   (G)   Whenever any property is abandoned, neglected, or disregarded so as to
permit the same to be cluttered with an accumulation of litter or waste
including but not limited to waste paper, rags, cans, bottles, lumber, metal,
garbage, trash, disused or inoperable vehicles, trailers, machinery,
appliances, or furniture, or old or used tires, thereon, unless specifically
authorized by law.
   (H)   Whenever any property is not graded and maintained so as to prevent
the accumulation of stagnant water thereon or within any item or structure
located thereon.
   (I)   Whenever any buildings shall not be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. Where the same are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by
an acceptable process which will not be injurious to human health.
   (J)   Whenever any property owner neglects or permits a structure on the
owner’s property to lapse into such disrepair that the structure is likely to
fall or collapse and thus cause damage to the property or fence of an abutting
property owner.
   (K)   Whenever any property owner maintains or permits the accumulation of
unwholesome substances as generally described in
Chapter 95 on or about the owner’s property.
   (L)   Whenever a building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
explosion, wind, earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or
deteriorated so as to become an attractive nuisance to children; or freely
accessible to persons for the purpose of committing unauthorized or unlawful
acts; or freely accessible to animals, wildlife or other vermin.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007; Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-2-2013) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   The Town Council hereby designates the individual Council members or the
Town Marshal to enforce this chapter and any of the persons shall enter upon
and inspect the properties of the town. If a nuisance is found to exist, such
person shall serve written notice upon the person owning or controlling the
property, such notice requiring the person permitting such nuisance to correct
the situation so that such nuisance shall thereafter be abated. Service of
notice may be made in person or by certified mail. In the event that such
person or persons so notified shall not abate the nuisance within ten days
after such notice, the person or persons shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 REMEDIAL ACTION TO ABATE A DAMAGED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE TO BE TAKEN
WITHIN 24 HOURS.
   Within 24 hours of a building or structure being so damaged by fire,
explosion, wind, earthquake or flood, so as to constitute a nuisance as
hereinabove described, the owner or insurer of the property shall take remedial
action to abate the nuisance such that all debris shall be retained upon the
damaged property, and all access thereto shall be restricted by the following
means:
   (A)   Substantial secure wood or metal panels shall be installed over all
windows, doors or other openings to limit access to all persons or animals.
   (B)   A chain link or other “construction-type” fence shall be erected to
contain all debris from being windblown off of the property until such time as
the property is either rehabilitated or all debris is removed.
   (C)   All utilities shall be secured and turned off.
   (D)   Signage shall be placed upon the fenced perimeter of the property,
advising the public that there shall be “No Trespassing” due to the dangerous
condition of the property.
   (E)   The property owner or insurer shall designate an emergency contact
person, and shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Marshal of sufficient
information so as to be able to contact that person 24 hours/day until such
time as the property is either rehabilitated or all is debris removed.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-2-2013) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 PARKING OF IDLING TRUCKS AND OTHER VEHICLES FOR EXTENDED PERIODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit the
running of the engine of a parked truck or other vehicle on idle between dusk
and dawn on any property within the town limits of the town.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 12-1-2022) Penalty, see §
96.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 96.15 FAILURE OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO CORRECT NONCOMPLIANCE; COSTS OF
REMOVAL.
   In the event the owner or occupant of the premises fails to correct the
public nuisance condition of the premises as specified in the notice to abate
nuisance within the time required by §
96.03, the Town Council may proceed to correct the condition and shall keep an
account of all costs incurred in correction of the public nuisance condition.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of all costs incurred by
the town involved in correcting the public nuisance condition to be issued
immediately to the owner or occupant of the premises in the same manner as
provided for issuance of the notice of violation by this chapter. The owner or
occupant shall pay the amount of all costs incurred by the town as noted on the
certified statement to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days from the date the
certified statement is served upon the owner or occupants.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 96.16 LIEN; DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All costs by the town to correct a public nuisance as provided in this
chapter shall be and the same are hereby declared a lien in favor of the town
upon and against the premises on which the corrective activity is undertaken.
All costs, together with any penalty applicable thereto as provided by this
chapter, shall be collected in any manner provided by law. The lien created is
superior to and takes precedence over all other liens except for the lien for
taxes.
   (B)   In the event the full amount due the town is not paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer by the owner of the premises within 30 days after receipt of the
certified statement of expenses as provided, the costs shall thereupon become
and are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 25% of such cost
shall thereupon attach to the cost and be included in the lien, and shall be
collectible in addition to the cost of such removal and disposal.
   (C)   In the event a delinquency occurs for nonpayment of the costs set out
in the certified statement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed as provided in
I.C. 36-1-6-2, where applicable, to place the charges on the taxes charged
against the property or otherwise record in the office of the County Recorder a
notice of lien setting forth the name or names of the owner of the premises
upon which the costs have become delinquent, the description of the premises as
shown by the records of the County Auditor and the amount of such delinquent
costs and the penalty thereon. The lien shall attach to the premises described
in the notice of lien from the time of the recording of the notice of lien.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 96.17 CIVIL ACTION; FORECLOSURE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   If the costs incurred by the town for the correction of the public
nuisance are not paid to the town and become delinquent, then the amount due
the town for such corrective action, the penalty thereon and all costs of
collection thereof including reasonable attorney’s fees, may be recovered by
the town in a civil action brought in the name of the town against the owner of
the premises responsible for payment thereof.
   (B)    If the costs incurred by the town for the correction of a public
nuisance are not paid to the town and become delinquent, the town, as an
additional or alternative remedy, may foreclose the lien created by this
chapter as a means of collecting the amount due the town, including the penalty
thereon. In event an action is brought to foreclose the lien as created, the
town is entitled to recover the amount due the town for nuisance correction,
any penalty thereon and all costs of the foreclosure of the lien, including a
reasonable attorney’s fee, and the court shall order that the sale of the
premises be made without relief from valuation and appraisement laws.
   (C)   In the event the costs incurred by the town for the correction of a
public nuisance are not paid to the town and become delinquent, the town, as a
further additional or alternative remedy, may authorize the Clerk-Treasurer to
certify to the County Auditor a true copy of the notice of lien and the amount
of delinquent costs and any penalty thereon which shall then be charged to the
premises on the tax duplicate and shall be collected in a manner that taxes are
collected by law. Upon collection of the costs and penalty thereon, the County
Auditor or any other appropriate official shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the
total amount of the costs so collected together with the penalty thereon.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 96.18 LEGAL REMEDIES.
   In addition to the enforcement remedies provided by this chapter, the town
may enforce the provisions of this chapter, by all other legal remedies,
including but not limited to, the use of a mandatory injunction to require
abatement of any public nuisances with the town by the owner or occupant of the
affected premises. In all such actions brought by the town to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, the town is entitled to recover all costs of such
litigation, including a reasonable attorney’s fee.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 96.19 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises who has received a notice
of violation of the chapter to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise
dispose of the premises to another until the provisions of the notice of
violation have been complied with, or until such owner shall first furnish the
grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee a true copy of any notice of
violation and shall furnish the town a signed and notarized statement from the
grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee acknowledging the receipt of such
notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the corrections or repairs required by the notice of violation.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not less than
$100 nor more than $2,500 and may be subject to other penalties provided by
this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues after the time has passed for correction
stated in the notice to abate nuisance. Any person, firm or corporation
adjudged guilty of violating any provision of this chapter may also be adjudged
to pay the costs of prosecution including attorney fees.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
96.05 shall, upon conviction thereof be fined in an amount not less than $100
and no more than $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during which a violation occurs. Any person, firm or corporation adjudged
guilty of violating §
96.05 may also be adjudged to pay the costs of prosecution including attorney
fees.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 11-1-2007; Ord. 2022-7, passed 12-1-2022)
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Policy statement
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Unlawful practice
   
97.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
97.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
97.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
97.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
97.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
97.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
97.10   Exemptions
   
97.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 97.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of North Salem to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et. seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§ 97.04
through 97.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
97.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
97.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
97.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
97.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OF RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
97.03 and except as exempted by §
97.03(B) and §
97.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.   
      (8)   For purposes of this subsection, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
97.03 through
97.06.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of
this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of this
section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et. seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C )of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 97.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) of this section shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official
of the Town of North Salem, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the Town of North Salem, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section
to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the Town of North Salem, Indiana, or the
Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-2-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
112.   BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AS NUISANCES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Permits authorized
§ 110.01 PERMITS AUTHORIZED.
   The consent of the town is hereby given to the proper legal authorities of
the state to issue liquor retailer’s permits for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, to applicants otherwise duly qualified, for premises within the
town.
(1985 Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. passed 11-4-1970)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Applicability and limitations
   
111.03   License required; application procedure; license terms and fees
   
111.04   Carrying of license required when peddling or hawking
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKING. Conducting, on a temporary or transient basis, and other than in
connection with a fixed and established place of business within the town, of
sales, auctions, public exhibitions, shows or public amusements for pay or
profit.
   PEDDLING. Selling or offering for sale, for profit or pay, either by
immediate transaction or on order, of goods, merchandise, foodstuffs,
subscriptions, tickets, memberships, enrollments, insurance policies, service
contracts and similar commodities and intangibles by traveling about on foot,
door-to-door or from a cart, wagon, automobile or other mobile conveyance not
constituting a fixed and established place of business.
   PEDDLING and HAWKING. Include, but are not limited to, activities of a
transient merchant as defined by I.C. 25-37-1-2.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed 4-16-1934)
§ 111.02 APPLICABILITY AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The licensing requirement and permit fee as hereinafter provided do
not apply to the following persons or activities:
      (1)   Sales to dealers, for resale, by commercial travelers or selling
agents;
      (2)   Receivers appointed by a court in this state making sales for the
benefit of creditors;
      (3)   Sales by public officers as authorized by law;
      (4)   Sales or activities conducted exclusively by or in support of a
nonprofit charitable, educational, religious, scientific or civic organization,
without benefit of private profit or gain by the person conducting the sale or
activity;
      (5)   Seasonal retail establishments, such as fruit and vegetable stands,
which normally conduct business for a continuous period of at least 90 days
during the year from a fixed location;
      (6)   Selling limited goods, wares, fruits and merchandise, conducted by
honorably discharged veterans of foreign wars exempt from municipal licensing
requirements under I.C. 25-25-2-1;
      (7)   Sale of newspapers, dairy products or similar commodities provided
and delivered through regularly established and direct route delivery system;
or
      (8)   Temporary sales by a person of his or her own used or surplus
personal property, which was not originally acquired for purposes of resale.
   (B)   However, any person purportedly conducting business activities without
a license under an exemption provided by this section shall have the burden of
proof that his or her activities are bona fide and eligible for exemption
hereunder. The license required hereunder is so required pursuant to I.C. 25-
37-1-11, and is in addition to any county license issued under I.C. 25-37-1-7.
The fact that a person has a county license does not exempt the person from
municipal license requirements or fees as hereinafter provided.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed 4-16-1934)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCEDURE; LICENSE TERMS AND FEES.
   (A)   Before beginning work or peddling or hawking in the town, a person
must secure a license for the work from the Clerk or Town Marshal.
   (B)   The person applying for a license shall provide the Clerk or Marshal
with his or her name, permanent address, name and address of any person or
company whom he or she represents, and any other reasonable information and
identification which the Clerk or Marshal may require.
   (C)   Licenses shall be available for terms, and a fee shall be paid
therefor, as follows:
 
License Term Fee
Daily        $50 per day
Weekly       $200 per week
Annual       $500 per year
 
   (D)   The license shall be construed only as a personal right and privilege
of the licensee, and does not cover his or her agents or employees.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed 4-16-1934; Ord.
2022-9, passed 1-5-2023)
§ 111.04 CARRYING OF LICENSE REQUIRED WHEN PEDDLING OR HAWKING.
   The license provided under §
111.03 above shall be carried upon the person of the individual doing the work,
and may be exhibited to anyone to show the right or privilege to engage in the
work. However, possession of a town license does not imply, and a licensee may
not represent, that the town warrants or assumes any liability for any goods or
services being sold nor for the integrity or reliability of the licensee.
Veterans exempt from the licensing requirement under §
111.02(A)(6) above shall, in lieu of carrying their license, carry their
military discharge papers or other valid document indicating that they are
eligible for the exemption.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed 4-16-1934)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in peddling or hawking without a license as required
by, or otherwise in violation of, this chapter shall be liable to a fine of not
less than $25 nor more than $50 for each day that a violation exists or
continues.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed 4-16-1934)
CHAPTER 112: BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AS NUISANCES
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Business activities declared nuisance
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Anything that:
      (1)   Works an unreasonable injury, harm or prejudice to an individual or
the public;
      (2)   Is done to the unreasonable hurt or annoyance of the lands,
tenements or hereditaments of another or the public;
      (3)   Endangers life or health or gives unreasonable offense to the
senses, or violates the laws of common decency; or
      (4)   Obstructs the reasonable and comfortable use of private or public
property by another or the public.
(1985 Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948)
§ 112.02 BUSINESS ACTIVITIES DECLARED NUISANCE.
   Any trade, business, occupation or profession which is described as follows
constitutes a nuisance:
   (A)   Any such which emits unreasonably offensive and noxious odors, or is
offensive physically to the senses and which thereby makes life unreasonably
uncomfortable;
   (B)   A junkyard or automobile graveyard; or
   (C)   A slaughterhouse.
(1985 Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person conducting, engaging in or carrying on any trade, business,
occupation or profession herein declared a nuisance; or who purposely,
carelessly or otherwise causes or permits any nuisance as herein defined; or
who, being responsible for the abatement thereof, suffers and permits the same
to continue or refuses to abate the same; shall upon conviction be fined not
less than $50 nor more than $100 for each offense. Each day that the nuisance
is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS/PROJECTILES
      
131.   LOITERING AND CONGREGATIONS
      
132.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND ORDER
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS/PROJECTILES
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Exceptions
   
130.03   Discharge of firearms, air guns and archery weapons
   
130.04   Regulation of dangerous projectiles; generally
   
130.05   Permitted use of air guns and archery weapons
   
130.06   Permitted use of firearms on authorized firearms ranges
   
130.07   Reasonable prudence required
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GUN. A rifle, pistol or other device for propelling a bullet, pellet,
dart or BB shot by means of compressed air or other compressed gas, or by means
of a spring or similar device under mechanical tension which creates a charge
of compressed air when released.
   ARCHERY WEAPON. Any longbow, crossbow or similar device designed to propel
an arrow, dart or spear by the release of string tension, but not including a
toy in which the projectile is so blunted or padded as to be incapable of
causing injury under normal circumstances.
   DANGEROUS PROJECTILE. Any projectile discharged from a firearm, air gun or
archery weapon; but also means any other object which is purposely hurled or
thrown by any means, and which by virtue of its sharpness, heaviness, velocity
or explosive or incendiary character, can reasonably be foreseen as potentially
causing harm or injury to persons or property, whether or not any harm or
injury is actually caused or intended.
   FIREARM. Any rifle, pistol, shotgun, flare gun or other device for
propelling a solid projectile by means of an explosive charge.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -)
§ 130.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this act do not apply to nor restrict the use of firearms,
air guns, archery weapons or dangerous projectiles by the following persons:
   (A)   A police officer or other person lawfully authorized to exercise
police power and acting within the context of and to the extent necessary to
perform his or her police functions;
   (B)   A member of the armed forces of the United States or of an allied
military force acting within the context of and to the extent necessary to
perform his or her military duties; and
   (C)   A person acting in the defense of his or her own life or property or
that of another person, to the extent deemed reasonable and justifiable by law.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -)
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, AIR GUNS AND ARCHERY WEAPONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, air gun or archery
weapon within the corporate limits of the town, except in the manner and for
the purposes hereafter permitted.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS PROJECTILES; GENERALLY.
   In addition to the restrictions imposed by §
130.03 above, it is also unlawful to discharge, hurl or throw any dangerous
projectiles whatever:
   (A)   If the projectile traverses a street, road, alley or other public
thoroughfare; or
   (B)   In any public place or establishment and in such a way that the person
assembled or passing there, or any valuable property, would be imperiled by
that action.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PERMITTED USE OF AIR GUNS AND ARCHERY WEAPONS.
   An air gun or archery weapon may be discharged under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Upon private property, other than an establishment open to the public,
either within an enclosed structure or within an outdoor area enclosed by a
solid wall or fence at least eight feet high;
   (B)   Within a regularly established commercial shooting gallery, or a
temporary or transient shooting gallery licensed under §
111.03;
   (C)   Within an authorized firearms range as provided by §
130.06 below.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -)
§ 130.06 PERMITTED USE OF FIREARMS ON AUTHORIZED FIREARMS RANGES.
   A person may, with the approval and written consent of the Town Marshal,
establish, maintain and operate a private or public firearms range. Firearms of
a type authorized by the Marshal and subject to any further restrictions and
regulations which the Marshal may impose, may be used on the authorized range
for purposes of target practice, firearms training or sport competition. In
considering an application, the Marshal shall take account of physical location
and layout, safeguards to protect neighboring properties or other persons on
the same premises, and the potential for noise and disturbance annoying to
adjoining properties. The permit shall be revocable at the discretion of the
Marshal.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-6) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -)
§ 130.07 REASONABLE PRUDENCE REQUIRED.
   A person using a firearm, air gun or archery weapon as authorized under §§
130.05 or
130.06 shall at all times exercise common and reasonable prudence. If any
police officer finds that the person is not, in the opinion of the officer,
exercising prudence so as to avoid endangering other persons or property, the
office may order the person to immediately discontinue that activity
irrespective of any authorization under §§
130.05 or
130.06 above.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who does any of the following commits a penal violation, and
shall be liable to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each
offense or for each day that a violation continues:
   (A)   Uses a firearm, air gun, archery weapon or dangerous projectile except
in a manner as authorized herein;
   (B)   Establishes, maintains and operates any firearms range without a
permit as provided by §
130.06 above, or in violation of restrictions and regulations imposed as
conditions of the permit; or
   (C)   Disobeys a cease and desist order given in accordance with §
130.07 above.
(1985 Code, § 8-1-8) (Ord. 2C-1985, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: LOITERING AND CONGREGATIONS
Section
   
131.01   Unlawful loitering or gathering on private property
   
131.02   Unlawful loitering or gathering on public property
   
131.03   Special town curfew hours for minors imposed; enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 UNLAWFUL LOITERING OR GATHERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Irrespective of whether or not any other unlawful activity is
conducted or intended, it shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons
to loiter or gather, whether in a vehicle or otherwise, upon any business or
commercial premises:
      (1)   After the closing hours of the business or commercial
establishment; or
      (2)   During the business hours of the establishment other than pursuant
to the purposes for which the establishment is open to the public.
   (B)   Unless with the knowledge and consent of the owner, tenant, operator
or manager of the business or commercial property;
      (1)   Upon any residential, agricultural, industrial or undeveloped
property, occupied or unoccupied, except with the knowledge and consent of the
owner, tenant or manager of the property; or
      (2)   Upon any business or commercial property in a manner contrary to
any written and prominently displayed rules of the establishment, or if asked
to disperse or depart by the owner, tenant or manager of the establishment or
his or her authorized agent.
   (C)   Whenever in this section an exception is made by virtue of the
knowledge and consent of the owner, tenant or manager of any property, it shall
be the burden of any person suspected of or charged with violating this section
to show to the satisfaction of an enforcement officer or a court that the
knowledge and consent did in fact exist.
(1985 Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 5C-1985, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 UNLAWFUL LOITERING OR GATHERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Irrespective of whether or not any other unlawful activity is
conducted or intended, it shall be unlawful, except as hereafter permitted, for
any person or persons to loiter or gather, whether in a vehicle or otherwise:
      (1)   In a public building, except on bona fide public business for
purposes for which the building is open to the public, or which are authorized
by law or by the public body or officer having charge of the building;
      (2)   In a street, alley, parking area, sidewalk or other public
thoroughfare so as to obstruct the use thereof by normal vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, to which use the thoroughfares are hereby dedicated, or
pose a hazard to the traffic; except that the Town Council may, at its
discretion, permit the use of the thoroughfares for parades, demonstrations or
similar events having a public purpose, interest or benefit;
      (3)   In a street, alley, parking area, sidewalk, park or similar public
facility for the purpose of or in a manner so as to harass, disturb or annoy
passers-by or other persons seeking to use and enjoy the public facility; or
      (4)   On other public premises, except for the purposes for which the
premises are ordinarily used and made available to the public and in accordance
with any applicable rules and regulations imposed by the appropriate public
authority.
   (B)   However, nothing in this section shall be construed or applied so as
to prohibit the exercise of any of the rights of any person as guaranteed under
the constitutions or statutes of the state or the United States, except to the
extent that the exercise would unreasonably and unavoidably impair the
supervening rights, safety and welfare of the general public.
(1985 Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 5C-1985, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 SPECIAL TOWN CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS IMPOSED; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whereas I.C. 31-37-3-4 permits a town to advance by up to one hour the
hours of curfew as provided by the state law, it is hereby provided that:
      (1)   No person who is under 15 years of age shall be or remain in any
public place or establishment, whether in a vehicle or otherwise, between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. of any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   No person who is 15, 16 or 17 years of age shall be or remain in a
public place or establishment, whether in a vehicle or otherwise:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on a Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday night and 5:00 a.m. on the following day; or
         (b)   Between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on a Saturday or
Sunday.
   (B)   However, the above restrictions do not apply to a person who is
attending or proceeding directly to or home from a religious or school-
sanctioned event or lawful employment, or who is accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian to accompany the person. Any person who is found in violation of
the curfew hours herein provided commits a delinquent act as defined by I.C.
31-37-1-2 and 31-37-2-1 et seq., may be taken into custody by any police
officer, and shall be treated as a delinquent child in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 31-37-6-1 et seq.
   (C)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
was emancipated:
         (a)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
         (b)   By virtue of having married; or
         (c)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction; at
the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent,
guardian, or custodian;
         (c)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Section 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
            6.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults;
            7.   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
            8.   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside of the state to another location outside of the state.
(1985 Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 5C-1985, passed - -)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
131.01 shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than $10, nor
more than $20 for each offense; provided, however, that should the person or
persons remain or return to the premises to unlawfully loiter or gather after
being directed to depart or disperse by an enforcement officer, the fine shall
be not less than $25 nor more than $50.
(1985 Code, § 8-2-1)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
131.02 shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than $10 nor
more than $20 for each offense, provided, however, that any person who remains
or returns to unlawfully loiter or gather after being directed to depart or
disperse by an enforcement officer shall be liable to a fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $50.
(1985 Code, § 8-2-2)
(Ord. 5C-1985, passed - -)
CHAPTER 132: PUBLIC SAFETY AND ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Making loud, unnecessary noise prohibited
   
132.02   Crying false fire alarm prohibited
   
132.03   Challenges to fight prohibited
   
132.04   Shooting toy guns in public places prohibited
   
132.05   Use of fireworks in public places prohibited
   
132.06   Obstructions in streets and alleys prohibited
   
132.07   Liability of persons aiding or inciting violations
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Golf carts, see §
71.03
   Off-road vehicles, see §
70.05
   Recreational wheeled devices, see §
71.04
§ 132.01 MAKING LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to make a loud, unnecessary noise without
cause.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 CRYING FALSE FIRE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to call a false alarm or fire.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 CHALLENGES TO FIGHT PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to challenge any other person to fight.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 SHOOTING TOY GUNS IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a toy pistol or gun upon, across
or along any public highway, sidewalk, alley, street or other public grounds
within the town.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 USE OF FIREWORKS IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets or any kind of fireworks upon, across or along any public highway,
sidewalk, alley, street or other public grounds within the town.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place any obstruction in any street or alley.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-6) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 LIABILITY OF PERSONS AIDING OR INCITING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall aid, abet, encourage, command or procure a violation of
this chapter by another person shall be deemed an accessory before the fact,
and may be tried and convicted in the same manner as if he or she were a
principal, and upon conviction shall suffer the same penalties as hereinafter
provided.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-7) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, pay a penalty of not less than $50 nor more than $100, and each day
a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 8-3-8) (Ord. 54, passed - -; Ord. 1C-1985, passed - -; Ord. 8C-
1985, passed - -; Ord. passed 5-5-1948)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PLANNING, ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING STANDARDS
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING, ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Authority
§ 150.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions and requirements of the zoning ordinance, subdivision
control regulations, and master plan enacted by the County Board of
Commissioners, as now existing or hereafter amended, shall have full and
binding applicability and enforceability within the town, insofar as they
pertain to the area within the town.
   (B)   The County Plan Commission is hereby authorized to act as the Plan
Commission for the town for all purposes of applying, administering, and
enforcing the provisions and regulations made applicable under division (A).
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners is hereby appointed and authorized
to act on behalf of the Town Council as a legislative body for purposes of
amending, repealing, supplementing, or replacing any provisions, requirements,
and regulations made applicable under division (A).
   (D)   For purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions made
applicable under division (A), the County Plan Commission and its authorized
agents and enforcement officers may:
      (1)   Issue any zoning (improvement location) permit or subdivision
permits that may be required under the provisions of the county zoning
ordinance or subdivision control regulations, which permits shall have full
validity in the town;
      (2)   Charge and collect its usual established fees for such permits,
retaining same for the benefit of the county;
      (3)   Issue citations, prosecute violations in the name of the county,
and collect fines and costs for the benefit of the county for penal violations
of ordinances made applicable under division (A); or
      (4)   Seek injunctions in the name of the county to prevent or require
correction of conditions, location, or uses of property not in compliance with
the master plan, ordinances and regulations made applicable under division (A).
   (E)   The Town Council shall act as its own Board of Zoning Appeals to hear
and act upon written requests for variances pursuant to such procedures as it
may from time to time adopt as a resolution to be kept in the minutes and
records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2-90, passed 5-1-1990)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING STANDARDS
Section
   
151.01   Authority
   
151.02   Application
§ 151.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Building Code, as formerly codified by Ord. 14C-1984 (NSMC 5-2-
1 through 5-2-11) is hereby repealed, and the town does hereby return authority
for establishment of building standards, inspections and enforcement within the
town limits, to the County Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 151.02 APPLICATION.
   In the event an application by a citizen of the town for a building permit
is denied by the County Plan Commission, the applicant may appeal the adverse
ruling to the Town Council by informing the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of his
or her intention to appeal the denial of the requested building permit so that
the appeal can be made by the applicant in person at the next regularly
scheduled meeting for the Town Council.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 5-1-1990)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD PROVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of provisions
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town does hereby indicate its intention to participate in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   The town does hereby adopt by reference the provisions of Ord. 2008-16
and Ord. 2009-20 and all future amendments or replacement ordinances required
to participate in the National Flood Insurance Program, and does designate the
County Area Plan Commission as its planning and zoning agency.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall maintain a copy of this section, together with
Ord. 2008-16 and Ord. 2009-20, in the manner town ordinances are kept and
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2009-6, passed 9-3-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
TABLE I: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Vacates a ten-foot wide alley
                     (1985 Code, § 4-3-1)
                     Incorporation by reference of any other ordinances which
-        - -         vacate any street, alley or the like
                     (1985 Code, § 4-3-2)
91-1     2-5-1991    Vacating alleyway in Block 8 in Hypes Second Addition
2009-3   3-5-2009    Vacates alleyways in Block 4
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1985 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                  Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
5-13                          31.01
                              31.01,
5-13-9-1 et seq.              34.19,
                              53.10
5-14-3                        32.24
5-14-3-8(d)                   32.36
5-31-1                        53.04
6-1.1-18.5-7                  31.08
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)           31.10
6-7-1-12                      31.07
8-1.5-3-8(c)                  52.05
8-1.5-3-8(d)                  52.05
8-1.5-3-8(f)                  52.05
8-1.5-3-8(g)                  52.05
8-1.5-3-11(b)                 52.04
8-1.5-3-11(c)                 52.04
8-1.5-3-11(d)                 52.04
8-1.5-3-11(e)                 52.04
8-1.5-3-13                    31.02
9-13-2-1                      72.01
9-13-2-1 through 9-13-2-201   70.01
9-17-2-12(C)(3)               32.24
9-21-1-8                      70.02
9-21-4-2                      70.03
                              72.03,
9-22                          72.04,
                              72.06
9-22-1                        72.03
9-22-1-1                      72.01
9-22-1-11                     72.03
9-22-1-14                     72.03
9-29-1-1 et seq.              34.13
9-30-2-5(b)                   34.06
9-30-2-5(c)                   34.06
9-30-2-5(g)                   34.13,
                              34.15
9-30-3-6                      34.10
9-30-3-8                      34.06
9-30-3-8(b),(c)               34.06
10-14-3-29                    35.02,
                              35.06
14-8-2-5.7                    70.05
14-8-2-185                    70.05
14-8-2-223.5                  70.05
18-5-10-1 et seq.             30.16
22-9.5-1 et seq,              97.01
22.9.5-1-4 et seq.            97.02
22-9.5-2-2                    97.02
22-9.5-2-3                    97.02
22-9.5-2-4                    97.02
22-9.5-2-8                    97.02
22-9.5-2-9                    97.02
22-9.5-2-11                   97.02
22-9.5-2-13                   97.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.              97.03,
                              97.10
22-9.5-4-8                    97.11
22.9.5-5                      97.02
22-9.5-5-1                    97.03
22-9.5-6                      97.02,
                              97.11
25-25-2-1                     111.02
25-37-1-2                     111.01
25-37-1-7                     111.02
25-37-1-11                    111.02
31-6-4-15.7                   131.03
31-37-1-2                     131.03
31-37-2-1 et seq.             131.03
31-37-3-4                     131.03
31-37-6-1 et seq.             131.03
31-37-19-27                   131.03
33-35-3-2(f)                  34.16
33-37-4-2                     34.13,
                              34.14
33-37-7-6                     34.16,
                              34.18
34-28-5                       34.14
34-28-5-1                     34.09,
                              34.10
34-28-5-2                     Ch. 73, Sch. II
34-28-5-3                     34.04
34-28-5-3.5                   34.04
34-28-5-4                     34.13
34-28-5-4(e)(1)               34.11
34-28-6-1                     34.06
34-28-6-3                     34.06
35-47-2-3                     32.24
36-1-3                        35.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-4-16                     31.03
36-1-5-4                      32.06
                              34.18,
36-1-6-2                      72.06,
                              96.16
                              34.18,
36-1-6-4                      72.06,
                              93.99
36-1-8-5                      31.09
36-1-8-5.1                    31.09
36-1-11                       34.19
36-1-11-6(b)                  93.22
36-1-11-6(c)                  93.22
36-1-20.2                     32.06
36-1-21                       32.06
36-4-6-11                     32.06
36-5-2                        33.03
36-5-2-2                      10.15
36-5-2-9.4                    32.06
36-5-2-9.8                    32.04
36-7-4                        36.01
36-7-4-200 through 36-7-4-223 36.01
36-7-4-210                    36.01
36-7-4-901                    36.01
36-7-10-3(b)                  95.04
36-7-10.1-4                   96.02
36-8-2                        35.02
36-8-3-20                     32.15
                              53.01,
36-9-23                       53.02,
                              53.04
36-9-36                       91.03
36-9-36-5                     91.03
36-9-36-8                     91.03
36-9-36-13                    91.03
36-9-36-14                    91.03
36-9-36-15                    91.03
36-9-36-17                    91.03
36-9-36-19                    91.03
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1985 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1-3-1             34.01
1-3-2             34.02
1-3-3             34.03
1-3-4             34.04
1-3-5             34.05
1-3-6             34.06
1-3-7             34.07
1-3-8             34.08
1-3-9             34.09
1-3-10            34.10
1-3-11            34.11
1-3-12            34.12
1-3-13            34.13
1-3-14            34.14
1-3-15            34.15
1-3-16            34.16
1-3-17            34.17
1-3-18            34.18
1-3-19            34.19
1-3-20            34.20
1-4-1             30.01
1-4-2             30.02
1-4-3             30.03
1-4-4             30.04
2-1-1             30.15
2-1-2             30.16
2-1-3             30.17
2-2-1             31.01
2-2-2             31.02
2-2-3             31.03
2-2-4             31.04
2-2-5             31.05
2-2-6             31.06
2-2-7             31.07
2-2-8             31.08
2-3-1             32.01
2-3-3             32.03
2-3-4             32.04
2-3-5             32.05
2-4-1             32.15
2-4-2             32.16
2-4-3             32.17
2-4-4             32.18
2-4-5             32.19
2-4-6             32.20
2-4-7             32.21
2-4-8             32.22
2-4-9             32.23
2-4-10            32.24
2-5-1             32.35
2-5-2             32.36
2-6-1             33.01
2-6-2             33.02
2-6-3             33.03
2-6-4             33.04
2-6-5             33.05
3-3-1             52.01
3-3-2             52.02
3-3-3             52.03
3-3-4             52.04
3-3-5             52.05
3-4-1             52.15
3-4-2             52.16
3-4-3             52.17
3-5-1             52.30
3-5-3             52.32
3-5-4             52.33
3-5-5             52.34
3-5-6             52.35
3-6-1             53.01
3-6-2             53.02
3-6-3             53.03
3-6-4             53.04
3-6-5             53.05
3-6-6             53.06
3-6-7             53.07
3-6-8             53.08
3-6-9             53.09
3-6-10            53.10
3-6-11            53.11
3-6-12            53.12
3-6-13            53.13
3-6-14            53.14
3-6-15            53.15
3-6-16            53.16
3-7-1             53.25
3-7-2             53.26
3-7-3             53.27
3-7-4             53.28
3-7-5             53.29
3-7-8             53.30
3-7-9             53.31
3-7-10            53.32
3-7-11            53.33
3-7-12            53.34
3-7-13            53.35
3-7-14            53.36
3-7-15            53.37
3-8-1             53.50
3-8-2             53.51
3-8-3             53.52
3-8-4             53.53
3-8-5             53.54
3-8-6             53.55
3-8-7             53.55
3-8-8             53.56
3-8-9             53.57
3-8-10            53.57
3-8-11            53.57
3-8-12            53.58
3-8-13            53.59
3-8-14            53.60
3-8-15            53.61
3-8-16            53.62
3-8-17            53.63
3-8-18            53.64
3-8-19            53.65
3-8-20            53.99
3-8-21            53.66
3-8-22            53.67
3-8-23            53.68
3-9-1             50.15
3-9-2             50.16
3-9-3             50.17
3-9-4             50.18
3-9-5             50.19
4-1-1             90.01,
                  90.99
4-2-1             91.01
4-2-2             91.02
4-2-3             91.03
4-2-4             91.04
4-2-5             91.99
6-1-1             110.01
6-2-1             111.01
6-2-2             111.02
6-2-3             111.03
6-2-4             111.04
6-2-5             111.99
6-3-1             112.01
6-3-2             112.02
6-3-3             112.99
7-1-1             70.01
7-1-2             70.02
7-1-3             70.03
7-1-4             70.04
7-2-1             Ch. 74, Sch. I
7-3-1             Ch. 73, Sch. I
7-4-1             Ch. 73, Sch. II
7-4-2             Ch. 73, Sch. II
7-4-3             Ch. 73, Sch. II
7-5-1             72.01
7-5-2             72.02,
                  72.99
7-5-3             72.03
7-5-4             72.04
7-5-5             72.05,
                  72.99
7-5-6             72.06
8-1-1             130.01
8-1-2             130.02
8-1-3             130.03
8-1-4             130.04
8-1-5             130.05
8-1-6             130.06
8-1-7             130.07
8-1-8             130.99
8-2-1             131.01,
                  131.99
8-2-2             131.02,
                  131.99
8-2-3             131.03
8-3-1             132.01
8-3-2             132.02
8-3-3             132.03
8-3-4             132.04
8-3-5             132.05
8-3-6             132.06
8-3-7             132.07
8-3-8             132.99
8-4-1             35.01
8-4-2             35.02
8-4-3             35.03
8-4-4             35.04
8-4-5             35.05
8-4-6             35.06
8-4-7             35.07
8-4-8             35.99
9-1-1             92.01
9-1-2             92.02
9-1-3             92.03
9-1-4             92.04
9-1-5             92.05
9-1-6             92.99
9-3-1             93.20
9-3-2             93.21,
                  93.99
9-3-3             93.22
9-3-4             93.23
9-4-1             94.01
9-4-2             94.02
9-4-3             94.03
9-4-4             94.99
9-5-1             95.01
9-5-2             95.02
9-5-3             95.03
9-5-4             95.04
9-5-5             95.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
–       - -         T.S.O. I
–       - -         T.S.O. I
                      111.01 -
9         4-16-1934   111.04,
                      111.99
                      92.01 -
                      92.05,
                      92.99,
                      112.01,
–       5-5-1948    112.02,
                      112.99,
                      132.01 -
                      132.07,
                      132.99
                      132.01 -
54        - -         132.07,
                      132.99
55        5-5-1948    32.35
56        11-20-1948  52.01 -
                      52.05
                      91.01 -
56(2)     12- -1950   91.04,
                      91.99
–       11-4-1970   110.01
1-1975    7-7-1975    30.16
–       4-7-1976    31.07
1-1977    5-3-1977    90.01,
                      90.99
1979-5    - -         52.15,
                      52.17
                      53.01,
1981-14   8-24-1981   53.06 -
                      53.16
                      53.25 -
1981-12   9-23-1981   53.32,
                      53.36,
                      53.37
                      53.50 -
1981-13   9-23-1981   53.68,
                      53.99
–       4-6-1982    32.01
–       7-6-1982    31.06
–       12-7-1982   50.15 -
                      50.19
–       3-6-1984    32.15 -
                      32.23
                      31.01 -
1C-1984   - -         31.05,
                      31.08
2C-1984   11-19-1984  33.01 -
                      33.05
                      32.04,
1C-1984   11-29-1984  32.05,
                      32.24,
                      32.36
3C-1984   - -         32.35
5C-1984   11-29-1984  52.16
                      93.20 -
6C-1984   11-29-1984  93.23,
                      93.99
–       12-4-1984   52.01 -
                      52.05
                      53.25,
7C-1984   12-4-1984   53.33 -
                      53.35
                      94.01 -
8C-1984   12-4-1984   94.03,
                      94.99
                      52.30 ,
9C-1984   12-4-1984   52.32 -
                      52.35
                      53.50 -
11C-1984  - -         53.68,
                      53.99
                      90.01,
12C-1984  - -         90.99,
                      91.05,
                      92.01
                      92.01 -
                      92.05,
                      92.99,
                      111.01 -
                      111.04,
1C-1985   - -         111.99,
                      112.01,
                      112.02,
                      112.99,
                      132.01 -
                      132.07,
                      132.99
                      130.01 -
2C-1985   - -         130.07,
                      130.99
                      72.01 -
3C-1985   1-7-1985    72.06,
                      72.99
                      70.01 -
                      70.04;
4C-1985   - -         Ch. 73, Schs. I,
                      II;
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I
                      131.01 -
5C-1985   - -         131.03,
                      131.99
6C-1985   - -         50.15 -
                      50.19
                      35.01 -
7C-1985   - -         35.07,
                      35.99
                      92.01 -
                      92.05,
8C-1985   - -         92.99,
                      132.01 -
                      132.07,
                      132.99
                      95.01 -
9C-1985   - -         95.04,
                      95.99
                      50.18,
1-88      5-10-1988   52.15,
                      52.16
2-88      12-6-1988   51.01
2-89      4-4-1989    71.02
1-90      5-1-1990    151.01,
                      151.02
2-90      5-1-1990    150.01
3-90      11-13-1990  51.01
91-1      2-5-1991    T.S.O. I
1-92      7-7-1992    71.02
2-1992    9-1-1992    50.20
1-1995    2-7-1995    90.01,
                      90.99
1994-1    2-7-1995    36.01
2-95      9-12-1995   52.15
                      50.18,
1-98      7-7-1998    52.15,
                      52.16,
                      53.33
1-99      9-14-1999   71.04
2004-1    1-8-2004    32.01
2-2004    6-3-2004    33.09
1-2005    3-3-2005    53.28
1-05      10-6-2005   70.05
2-05      10-6-2005   71.03
2-2005    - -2005     91.05
2-2006    2-2-2006    33.06 -
                      33.08
3-2006    8-3-2006    50.21
                      96.01 -
                      96.03,
2007-1    11-1-2007   96.15 -
                      96.19,
                      96.99
1-2008    5-1-2008    93.20,
                      93.21
2009-1    1-8-2009    52.17
2009-2    1-8-2009    53.29
2009-3    3-5-2009    T.S.O. I
2009-4    4-2-2009    52.45,
                      52.99
5-2009    8-6-2009    71.01
2009-6    9-3-2009    152.01
2010-1    7-1-2010    50.01
                      93.01 -
1-2011    8-4-2011    93.07,
                      93.99
                      70.15 -
                      70.21,
2-2011    8-4-2011    70.99,
                      Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                      II
2012-1    7-5-2012    31.09
2012-2    7-5-2012    32.06
2012-3    7-5-2012    Adopting Ordinance
2012-4    8-2-2012    50.18
2013-2    5-2-2013    96.02,
                      96.04
2013-3    6-6-2013    Adopting Ordinance
2013-4    12-5-2013   35.06
2014-1    2-6-2014    53.29
2014-2    2-6-2014    52.17
2014-5    5-1-2014    52.15,
                      53.28
2014-6    6-5-2014    52.17
2014-7    7-3-2014    Adopting Ordinance
2016-1    4-7-2016    52.17
2016-2    8-4-2016    31.10
2017-1    6-1-2017    93.01
2017-2    9-7-2017    90.01
2018-1    4-5-2018    52.33
2018-2    3-1-2018    Adopting Ordinance
2018-3    7-5-2018    90.01
2018-4    12-6-2018   52.17
2019-1    5-2-2019    97.01 -
                      97.11
2019-3    12-5-2019   52.17
2019-4  10-4-2019   53.29
2019-5    12-5-2019   53.27
2020-2    5-21-2020   52.17
2020-3    5-21-2020   52.17
2020-4    10-1-2020   52.17
2021-2    4-1-2021    52.06
2021-3    6-3-2021    93.21
2021-4    5-6-2021    31.11
2021-5    7-1-2021    70.05
2021-6    6-3-2021    50.01
                      50.22,
2021-7    10-7-2021   52.17,
                      53.29
2021-8    10-7-2021   32.01
2021-9    9-2-2021    31.12
2022-1    9-1-2022    93.21
2022-3    2-17-2022   Adopting Ordinance
2022-4    6-2-2022    31.11
2022-5    6-2-2022    52.17
2022-6    11-10-2022  52.17
2022-7    12-1-2022   96.05,
                      96.99
2022-8    1-5-2023    52.15,
                      53.28
2022-9    1-5-2023    111.03
                     
 
