ORLAND, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 2018-007, passed 11-12-2018
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town of Orland
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council of Orland,
Indiana.
      COUNCIL.  The Town Council of Orland, Indiana.
      COUNTY.  Steuben County.
      HIGHWAY.  Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH.  One calendar month.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING.  When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE.  The State of Indiana.
      TOWN.  The Town of Orland, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.  Include printing, lithographing or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR.  One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code, regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1985 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1985 Code, §     ).”
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
34.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
35.   FUNDS
      
36.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
37.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Economic development; allocation basis for economic development funds
   
30.03   Payment of dues for town memberships
   
30.04   Interlocal cooperation
Tax Abatement; Economic Revitalization Areas
   
30.15   Requirements
   
30.16   Role of Plan Commission
   
30.17   Resolutions required
   
30.18   Council’s determinations
   
30.19   Conditions of the Council
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 30.02  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; ALLOCATION BASIS FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Insofar as any state or federal statute, rule or regulation does not
mandate the system of allocating tax exempt status to economic development
facility projects which have been the subject of inducement resolutions after
the date of this section and to the extent that any future state or federal
statute, rule or regulation shall limit the overall amount of economic
development facility financing which the town may issue and to the further
extent to which any project shall consume a portion of such allocation and the
overall amount of projects induced during such period exceeds such allocations,
then the following criteria shall be applied in determining the allocation
thereof.
   (B)   (1)   The projects for the duration of any one allocation period shall
be divided into four categories as follows:
         (a)   This category shall have first allocation priority;
         (b)   This category shall be allocated funds after all projects in
allocation/division (B)(1)(a) above have been funded;
         (c)   This category shall be allocated funds after all projects in
allocation/division (B)(1)(b) above have been funded; and
         (d)   This category shall be allocated funds after all other projects
have been funded.
      (2)   The allocation determinations shall be good only for the allocation
period in which the project was induced, after such period has expired the
project if it has not been closed will compete again for allocation in the next
allocation period. The category rank is to be assigned to each project at the
time of inducement and each applicant must agree in writing to abide by the
terms of this section.
   (C)   The classification of projects into the four categories is to be
determined by reference to a point system derived as follows as indicated
hereafter. For the purpose of determining the amount of employment to be
generated for purpose of determining the eligibility for the award of points,
the projected level of employment at the end of the third year of operations
will be used.
   (D)   Criteria:
      (1)   Facility is to be the main home office of the company or is the
expansion of an applicant which already has its home office in the town (five
points);
      (2)   Amount to be induced has a ratio to number of jobs of not more than
$5,000 per job created or retained (five points) of not more than $10,000 per
job created or retained (three points);
      (3)   The overall new investment of applicant in plant, facility and
equipment which will not be subject to tax abatement is greater than 50% of the
amount of financing to be induced (four points);
      (4)   The project is to be or was instrumental to the town is obtaining
state or federal grant funds which will assist in attracting additional
industrial projects to the town or will assist in acquiring or constructing
public improvements of benefit to the town beyond the location of the plan in
said town (five points);
      (5)   The project will employ not less than 20 nor more than 300
employees (two points);
      (6)   The project will be under construction within 90 days after
inducement and the bond issue is projected to close within 120 days and the
applicant has a commitment to purchase the bonds on agreed terms (four points);
      (7)   The applicant proposes to engage in a business which will promote
diversification in said town. The town reserves the right to change whether any
certain type of business promotes diversification during the course of any
allocation period and may but is not obligated to determine during the course
of any allocation period that any certain type of business will no longer be
awarded points under this criteria during that allocation period; provided,
however, any such change shall not affect any point award already made during
that allocation period (five points);
      (8)   The applicant has agreed to make substantial contributions toward
public improvements needed by the town for the benefit of others in addition to
the applicant (five points);
      (9)   The applicant has agreed to landscape the facility site in a manner
which will enhance the general surrounding area which agreement is referenced
by the application letter (five points); and
      (10)   The proposed facility is to be located within the corporate
boundaries of the town or the company has requested annexation and annexation
is legally and economically feasible (five points).
   (E)   Category rankings to be as follows:
      (1)   Class A = points or better: 35;
      (2)   Class B = points or better: 25;
      (3)   Class C = points or better: 15; and
      (4)   Class D = points or less: 14.
   (F)   Any induced project which is not substantially constructed and the
bond issue is not closed within nine months of the date of inducement is to be
penalized by subtraction of five points from the points assigned at inducement
and will have its category reduced if appropriate.
   (G)   Allocation amongst projects within the same category are to be made on
a first to close basis; if more than one bond issue closes on the same date
within the same category, then the allocation shall be made upon a first to
have been induced basis.
   (H)   Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding any project
was induced prior to this section, has closed as to a portion of the full
amount of the inducement and has commenced construction, shall be deemed a
Class A category project and shall be allocated a portion of the allocation
before any other project.
(1985 Code, § 2-5-1)  (Ord. 40, passed 4-23-1984)
§ 30.03  PAYMENT OF DUES FOR TOWN MEMBERSHIPS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to
provide membership for the town, its elected and appointed officials, and its
boards, departments or agencies, in local, regional, state, national
associations of a civic, education or governmental nature which have as their
purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to pay
the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the town belongs.
(1985 Code, § 2-8-1)
§ 30.04  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION.
   The town is authorized pursuant to I.C. 36-1-7-1 through I.C. 36-1-7-12, as
it may be amended from time to time, to enter into joint agreements for the
purchase or exchange of property and services with other governmental bodies.
(1985 Code, § 2-8-2)
TAX ABATEMENT; ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
§ 30.15  REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The initiation of the process for having an area declared either an
economic revitalization area or a residentially distressed area is commenced by
filing a petition requesting such a declaration with the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town, which shall contain the following:
      (1)   A sworn statement stating the factual basis for the determination
required by the Town Council for the declaration;
      (2)   A sworn statement as to the proposed reuse and development of the
area, and the factual basis for the declaration being in the public interest of
said town, in setting forth the factual basis an averment of increases in
employment opportunities, assessed valuation of the town and diversification of
employment shall be deemed insufficient to sustain such a determination;
      (3)   A sworn statement setting forth a factual basis as to fairness of
granting said petition as to the existing commercial and industrial taxpayers;
      (4)   A map, and plats, identifying the area and simplified description
of the boundaries of the area; and
      (5)   A properly executed statement of benefits in the prescribed form.
   (B)   In addition, the petitioner shall submit a non-refundable fee to the
Clerk-Treasurer equal to the estimated cost of publishing the required notices,
plus $100, except as to any petition from any petitioner from whom the
collection of such fees is prohibited.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-1)  (Ord. 58, passed 5-7-1985; Ord. 94, passed 6-4-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Economic revitalization areas, see I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
§ 30.16  ROLE OF PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of said petition and fees, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
submit copies of the same to the Town Plan Commission and the Economic
Development Commission for their review and comment and shall schedule the
hearing of the Town Council by the statute for action thereon and submit the
original of said petition to said Council.
   (B)   Whenever the proposed use or reuse requires the additional designation
of an area as an economic development target area before being eligible for tax
abatement, the Economic Development Commission shall deem the petition as a
request for such status, and shall require the petitioner to provide such
additional information as may be required to make its determination and shall
proceed as required by statute for the processing of such requests.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-2)  (Ord. 58, passed 5-7-1985; Ord. 94, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 30.17  RESOLUTIONS REQUIRED.
   Prior to the Council taking action thereon, it shall receive the report and
comments of the aforesaid Plan Commission and Economic Development Commission,
and, prior to approving any petition for such a declaration, the Council must
receive a resolution recommending such an approval from said Plan Commission
and Economic Development Commission.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-3)  (Ord. 58, passed 5-7-1985; Ord. 94, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 30.18  COUNCIL’S DETERMINATIONS.
   In addition to any findings required by statute, the Town Council must
determine:
   (A)   The declaration of the area would be in the public interest of the
town (in making said determination the factual basis must consist of more than
increase of and diversification of employment, and increase in the assessed
valuation of the town);
   (B)   The proposed declaration will not be unfair to existing industries or
businesses; and
   (C)   That, in the case of a declaration of an area as a “residentially
distressed area” or the designation of an area as an “economic development
target area” for the purpose of allowing tax abatement to residential
development, the declaration will not be unfair to existing residential
developments.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-4)  (Ord. 94, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 30.19  CONDITIONS OF THE COUNCIL.
   In the event the Town Council determines that an area is to be declared an
economic revitalization area, then the Council shall set forth:
   (A)   The general standards which shall apply for the area;
   (B)   Time limits as to the declaration regarding the area;
   (C)   Limits as to the type of deductions allowed; and
   (D)   Such other matters as may be required by statute.
(1985 Code, § 2-6-5)  (Ord. 58, passed 5-7-1985; Ord. 94, passed 6-4-1990)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Council members
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.075   Majority vote; when required
   
31.076   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.077   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.078   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002  RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in the state’s Constitution, Article 6, § 6;
and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004  PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020  OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   The purchase or lease of real property by the Town Council up
to the time a contract or option to purchase or lease is executed by the
parties; or
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The State Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The State Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of the state;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in the state, the retention or expansion
of state business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in the
state; or
         (h)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3, identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism; and
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B).
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022  NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.023  AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024  RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 of this chapter or any other statute that authorizes a governing
body to conduct a meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings.  The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025  QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026  CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or
to which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the
members to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the
roll of members. 
   (B)   If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.026
§ 31.041  QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President.  A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042  ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.043  DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044  DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated, and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking.  The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion.  The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.045  SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.046  WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047  DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048  RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049  VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council.  When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote, and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.076
§ 31.050  PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051  UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053  MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054  MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055  AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council.  The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed.  Finally, a vote shall be
taken on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056  RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained,
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057  VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058  REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting. 
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059  ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060  TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.075  MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.049
§ 31.076  TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.077  DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council.  If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet.  Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the Department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4 or
I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.078  RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Boards and commissions established
   
32.02   Advisory Plan Commission
   
32.03   Departments of the town established
   
32.04   Department of Economic Development and Economic Development Commission
   
32.05   Department of Parks and Recreation
§ 32.01  BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The town shall establish such Boards and Commissions as are deemed
necessary by the Town Council to efficiently and effectively carry out the
services and functions of the town.
   (B)   The following Boards are established:
      (1)   Town Economic Development Commission; and
      (2)   Plan Commission.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-1)  (Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-3-1979)
§ 32.02  ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Plan Commission established. Pursuant to the authority granted in I.C.
36-7-4-201 and I.C. 36-7-4-202(a), and for the purposes of improving the
health, safety, convenience and welfare of the citizens of the town and the
planning for the future development of that community to the end that highway
systems be carefully planned; that new communities grow only with adequate
street utility, health, educational and recreational facilities; that the needs
of agriculture, industry and business be recognized in future growth, that
residential areas provide healthy surroundings for family life, and that growth
of the community is commensurate with promotion of the efficient and economical
use of public funds; there is established an advisory Plan Commission for the
town.
   (B)   Duties and powers. The duties and powers of the Plan Commission shall
be to:
      (1)   Supervise, and make regulations for, the administration of the
affairs of the Commission;
      (2)   Prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and hearings;
      (3)   Supervise the fiscal affairs of the Commission;
      (4)   Keep a complete record of all the departmental proceedings;
      (5)   Record and file all bonds and contracts and assume responsibility
for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the Commission;
      (6)   Prepare, publish and distribute reports, ordinances and other
material relating to the activities authorized under this section;
      (7)   Adopt a seal;
      (8)   Certify to all official acts; and
      (9)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same matter of other
departments of municipal government, as the case may be, and be limited in all
expenditures to the provisions made for the expenditures by the legislative
body of the municipality.
   (C)   Members.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members. The Town
Council shall appoint three persons in the town government as members. The
Chairperson of the Council shall appoint four citizen members, of whom no more
than two may be of the same political party.
      (2)   In the event that Plan Commission exercises jurisdiction outside
the incorporated area of the town as provided in I.C. 36-7-4-205(a) through
(f), the Judge of the County Circuit Court is to appoint two additional members
who reside in the unincorporated area subject to Plan Commission jurisdiction
of opposite political parties for terms as designated in I.C. 36-7-4-214, and
such additional members as may be required pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-215.
   (D)   Qualifications. In order to serve on the Plan Commission, each of the
four citizen members appointed of the Commission:
      (1)   Is to have knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to the
development of the municipality;
      (2)   Is not to hold any other office in the municipal government; and
      (3)   Is to be a resident of the municipality.
   (E)   Term of office.
      (1)   The term of office of a municipal member (appointed from the
membership of a legislative body, a board of park commissioners or the advisory
council on town affairs) is coextensive with the member’s term of office on
that body, board or council, unless that body, board or council appoints, at
the first regular meeting at any year, another to serve as its representative.
      (2)   Upon establishment of a seven-member Municipal Plan Commission, two
citizen members are to be initially appointed for a term of three years and two
initially be appointed for a term of four years.
      (3)   Each member’s term expires on January 1 of the second, third or
fourth year, respectively, after the year of the member’s appointment.
   (F)   Vacancies.
      (1)   Vacancies among the citizen members of the Commission shall be
filled by the Chairperson of the Council.
      (2)   Vacancies among the municipal members are to be filed by the
Council.
   (G)   Officers. At its first regular meeting in each year, the Plan
Commission shall elect from its members a President and Vice President. The
Vice President may act as President of the Plan Commission during the absence
or disability of the President. Action of a Plan Commission is not official,
unless it is authorized, at a regular or special meeting, by a majority of the
entire membership of the Plan Commission.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-2)  (Ord. 21, passed - -)
§ 32.03  DEPARTMENTS OF THE TOWN ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The town shall establish such departments as are deemed necessary by
the Town Council to efficiently and effectively carry out the services and
functions of the town.
   (B)   The following departments are established:
      (1)   Department of Economic Development;
      (2)   Department of Parks and Recreations;
      (3)   Police Department (Town Marshal); and
      (4)   Volunteer Fire Department.
   (C)   The departments established by this section shall perform the
administrative functions assigned to them by statute and ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-3)  (Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 22, passed 3-2-1980)
§ 32.04  DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created a Department of Economic Development as an additional
executive department of the town. Said department shall be under the control of
a board of three members to be known as the “Orland Economic Development
Commission.”
   (B)   The President of the Town Board is authorized to appoint a board of
three members to be known as the “Orland Economic Development Commissioners.”
   (C)   The nomination and appointment of the Economic Development
Commissioners, the organization of the town’s Economic Development Commission,
the scope of the powers to be exercised by said Commission, the manner in which
such powers are to be exercised and all of the other functions of the Town
Economic Development Commission shall be as set forth in I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
and all acts amendatory and supplemental thereto, as well as any other
applicable laws of the state.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-4)  (Ord. passed 7-3-1979)
§ 32.05  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   There is established a Department of Parks and Recreation, composed of
the Board of Parks and Recreation, a Superintendent and such other personnel as
the Board may determine.
   (B)   The Board shall be composed pursuant to the applicable state law.
   (C)   Upon the establishment of a Board, the terms of the members initially
appointed shall be one, two, three and four years. Thereafter, as a term
expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year term. All terms shall
expire on the first Monday of January, but an appointee shall continue in
office until his or her successor is appointed. All reappointments to the Board
shall be made by the President on the first Monday in April of each year or the
incumbent shall continue to serve another four-year term. If a vacancy on the
Board occurs, the President shall appoint a member for the unexpired term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and Vice President. The Vice President shall have authority to act as
the President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President.
The Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its own
membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the general power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition to all
other powers necessary to achieve the general objectives of the Board, the
Board shall have, for park and recreation purposes, all the powers and duties
listed in I.C. 36-10-3-10(a) and 36-10-3-11.
   (F)   The Board may create an advisory council and special committees
composed of citizens interested in the problem of parks and recreation in
accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-17(a) through I.C. 36-10-3-17(d).
   (G)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of the town government as described by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(1985 Code, § 2-4-5)  (Ord. 22, passed 3-2-1980)
CHAPTER 33:  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Adopted Codes and Policies
   
33.01   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) procedures
   
33.02   Policies and Procedures Manual
   
33.03   Identity theft prevention
Nepotism Policy
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Nepotism prohibited
   
33.17   Conflict of interest on certain contracts
   
33.18   Certification by elected officers of the town
   
33.19   Disbursement
ADOPTED CODES AND POLICIES
§ 33.01  AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is designated as the ADA Coordinator for the
town, who shall be responsible for overseeing compliance with the
nondiscrimination laws as they relate to persons with a disability.
   (B)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 12101 et seq. A copy of which is attached hereto, is adopted by the town as
the notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Said notice shall be made
available in alternative formats when necessary and posted in town facilities,
in job postings and meeting notices as deemed appropriate.
   (C)   The Town ADA Grievance Procedure under the ADA, a copy of which is
attached hereto, is adopted as the grievance procedure for addressing
complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision
of services, activities, programs or benefits by the town. Said grievance
procedure shall be made available in alternative formats when necessary and
shall be posted in town facilities as deemed appropriate.
   (D)   The town hereby adopts the most current ADA Standards for Accessible
Design, and any subsequent required standards for accessible design. In
addition, the town hereby adopts the most current Guidelines for Pedestrian
Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way, and any subsequent required guidelines
for pedestrian facilities in a public right-of-way.
   (E)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the town
resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA Coordinator, Notice
and Grievance Procedure under the ADA at such locations as may be determined
from time to time.
   (F)   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this section of any
other resolution or part of any other resolution does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this section. Those rights, liabilities and proceedings are
continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended resolution as if this section had not been adopted.
   (G)   To the extent required by the ADA, the town shall undertake a self-
evaluation and inventory of all of its facilities, programs, policies and
activities to evaluate any access barriers to public facilities and develop a
transition plan for removing the access barriers identified in said inventory,
including a budget and schedule for improvements.
(Res. 27-12, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 33.02  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   The Town Council hereby adopts, accepts and approves the Town of Orland
Policy and Procedures Manual, which manual is attached to the ordinance
codified herein as Exhibit A and incorporated herein and made a part hereof by
reference hereto, as the personnel policies and procedures which shall govern
all of the employees of the town, as they exist and may hereafter be revised
and amended.
(Ord. 246, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 33.03  IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts an identity theft prevention program,
to be known as the “Town of Orland, Indiana Identity Theft Prevention Program”
(the “ITPP”) attached as division (B) below, to comply with the red flags rules
implemented by the FTC. The town opens and maintains a minimal number of
accounts each year so that red flag opportunities are minimal. The Town Council
recognizes that the FTC has allowed for flexibility in creating and
implementing a program that fits the size of the entity and, therefore, the
Town Council adopts this ITPP to reflect the minimal number of accounts handled
by the town.
   (B)   The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) requires every creditor to
implement an Identity Theft Prevention Program (“ITPP”). The FTC requirement
and regulation is necessary because of § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act. The FTC has set forth the ITPP requirement in 16 C.F.R. §
681.2. IDENTITY THEFT is defined as a fraud committed or attempted using
identifying information of another person without authority. The town adopts
the program set forth below to comply with FTC rules and regulations. In
drafting its ITPP, the town has considered: the methods it provides to open its
accounts; the methods it provides to access its accounts; and its previous
experiences with identity theft. Based on these considerations, the governing
authority of the town hereby determines that the town is a low to moderate risk
entity and as a result develops and implements the streamlined ITPP set forth
here.
      (1)   Red flags. The following shall be considered red flags for the town
that require a response:
         (a)   When opening an account:
            1.   The presentation of suspicious documents:
               a.   Documents or cards appear to be forged, altered or
inauthentic;
               b.   Documents or cards that describe the person are not
accurate or consistent with the person presenting them; and
               c.   Other documents contain information that is not consistent
with existing customer information.
            2.   Information presented is inconsistent with other information
the customer provides; and
            3.   Information presented is invalid or expired.
         (b)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account:
            1.   Change of address for an account followed by a request to
change the account holder’s name;
            2.   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use;
            3.   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
            4.   Notice to the town that a customer is not receiving mail sent
by the town;
            5.   Breach in the town’s computer system security; and
            6.   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
         (c)   Alerts from others: any notice to the town from a customer,
identity theft victim, law enforcement or other person that the town has opened
or is maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
      (2)   Detection of red flags. The detection of a red flag shall require
informing the employee’s supervisor, who will then take immediate and
appropriate action to document the detection and notify the proper authorities.
The following are examples of possible procedures for detecting red flags, not
all may be available and each case should be treated according to information
available:
         (a)   New accounts:
            1.   Require identifying information such as name, date of birth,
residential or business address, principal place of business for an entity;
            2.   Verify the customer’s identity by reviewing the information
provided for inconsistencies or signs of forgery;
            3.   Review any documentation provided as to the existence of a
business entity; and
            4.   Independently contact the customer.
         (b)   Existing accounts:
            1.   Verify the identification of customers if they request
information (in person, via telephone, via facsimile or via e-mail);
            2.   Verify the validity of requests to change billing addresses;
and
            3.   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and
payment purposes.
      (3)   Response to red flags. The method of response and the timing of
response to the detection of a red flag shall be commensurate with the degree
of risk posed. Responses may include:
         (a)   Monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
         (b)   Contact the customer;
         (c)   Change any passwords, security codes or other security devices
that permit access to an account;
         (d)   Reopen a covered account with a new account number;
         (e)   Not open a new account;
         (f)   Close an existing account;
         (g)   Notify supervisor;
         (h)   Notify law enforcement; and
         (i)   Determine no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
      (4)   Compliance Officer and training. The Compliance Officer for this
ITPP shall be the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee. The Compliance
Officer shall conduct training of all town employees that transact business
with customers of the town’s utilities. The Compliance Officer shall
periodically review this program and recommend any necessary updates to the
Town Council.
      (5)   Annual report. An annual report, as required by FTC regulations,
shall be provided by the Compliance Officer to the Town Council President. The
contents of the annual report shall address and/or evaluate at least the
following:
         (a)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the town in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of
accounts and with respect to access to existing accounts;
         (b)   Incidents involving identity theft with town accounts and the
town’s response;
         (c)   Changes in methods of identity theft and the prevention of
identity theft; and
         (d)   Recommendations for changes to the town’s ITPP.
(Res. 17-09, passed 12-14-2009)
NEPOTISM POLICY
§ 33.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION.  An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the Town Council to make decisions regarding salary
ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the town.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL.  The Town Clerk-Treasurer and a Town Council member.
   EMPLOYED.  An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town.
   RELATIVE.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Spouse;
         (b)   Parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild;
         (d)   Brother, sister, stepbrother or stepsister;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      (2)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child of
the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or sister
by half blood (a common parent).
(Ord. 241-12, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 33.16  NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (1)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause his or her relative to be in the direct line of
supervision of that individual.
      (2)   This subchapter does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the town that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office of the town.
   (B)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this subchapter unless the individual has a break in employment with
the town. The following are not considered a break in employment with the town:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; and
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated following
by immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
(Ord. 241-12, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 33.17  CONFLICT OF INTEREST ON CERTAIN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with and
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this subchapter are satisfied. Contracts in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official begins are not
affected until those contracts are renewed. The Town Council, or an appropriate
agency of the town, designated by the Town Council, shall make a certified
statement that the contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount or
price bid or offered or make a certified statement of the reasons why the
vendor or contractor was selected.
   (B)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
town shall file a full disclosure of that contract. Disclosure statement must
be in writing, describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town,
describe the relationship that the elected official has to the individual or
business entity that contracts or purchases, and be affirmed under penalty of
perjury. Disclosure statement must be submitted to Town Council and be accepted
by the Town Council in a public meeting prior to final action on the contract
or purchase. Disclosure statement must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
(Ord. 241-12, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 33.18  CERTIFICATION BY ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE TOWN.
   Each elected official of the town shall annually certify in writing, subject
to the penalties for perjury, that the officer has not violated this
subchapter. An elected official shall submit the certification to the Town
Council President not later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 241-12, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 33.19  DISBURSEMENT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to and instructed to disburse the
policies herein to all town employees and officials.
(Ord. 241-12, passed 6-11-2012)
CHAPTER 34:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
34.01   Terms of office of Clerk-Treasurer
   
34.02   Powers and duties
   
34.03   Compensation of Clerk-Treasurer
   
34.04   Deputies and employees
Town Marshal
   
34.15   Appointment; compensation, tenure of Town Marshal
   
34.16   Powers and duties of the Town Marshal
   
34.17   Deputy Marshals
Officer and Employee Benefits
   
34.30   Town appointments
   
34.31   Official surety bonds
   
34.32   Vacations
   
34.33   Mileage
   
34.34   Reimbursement of travel and business expenses
Elections
   
34.45   Conduct and schedule of town elections
   
34.46   Nominating candidates for town office
   
34.47   Abolishing legislative districts
Cross-reference:
   Funds, see
Chapter 35
   General administrative provisions, see
Chapter 30
   Policies, see
Chapter 33
   Tax and Finance, see
Chapter 36
   Town Council, see
Chapter 31
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
§ 34.01  TERMS OF OFFICE OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is an elected position, whose term of office
is for four years, beginning at 12:00 noon on January 1 after his or her
election, and continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole
town.
(1985 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 34.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and
take acknowledgments of instruments as required by law.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Council, and whenever the
Council has an even number of members, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-officio
member for the purpose of casting the deciding vote to break a tie.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may perform all duties prescribed by law,
which include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town monies, and pay them out upon order
of the Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts of all town monies;
      (3)   File monthly reports with the Council, showing all receipts and
disbursements of the Town Treasury for the preceding month;
      (4)   Maintain records which are open for inspection by the Council;
      (5)   Collect fines resulting from ordinance violations;
      (6)   Issue all licenses; and
      (7)   Attend all Council meetings and maintain a recording of its
proceedings.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and Town Fiscal Officer
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-2.
(1985 Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 34.03  COMPENSATION OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   The compensation for the services of the person holding the office of Clerk-
Treasurer shall be fixed by the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation for the Town Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 34.04  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
authorized by the Council.
   (B)   Deputies and employees so hired serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1985 Code, § 2-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer to appoint deputies and employees, see I.C. 36-5-6-7
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 34.15  APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION, TENURE OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Council shall appoint a Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
   (B)   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Council and is subject
to the minimum basic training requirements.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-1)  (Ord. passed 5-2-1916)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
   Council to appoint a Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-7-2
   Tenure, training and removal procedures, see I.C. 36-5-7-3
§ 34.16  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer and has the powers of other law
enforcement officers as set forth in I.C. 36-5-7-4, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 34.17  DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   The Council may authorize the appointment of deputy marshals pursuant to
I.C. 36-5-7-6, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1985 Code, § 2-2-3)
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
§ 34.30  TOWN APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may employ such persons to effectively carry out the
needs and services of the town.
   (B)   Positions which the Council may appoint include but shall not be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Town Manager;
      (2)   Town Attorney;
      (3)   Town Engineer;
      (4)   Town Marshal;
      (5)   Volunteer Fire Chief; and
      (6)   Other officers and employees deemed necessary.
   (C)   Duties shall be set forth for each position by the Town Council and
applicable state law.
(1985 Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 34.31  OFFICIAL SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Individual official surety bonds required by I.C. 5-4-1-18, as it may
be amended from time to time, shall be provided by the town.
   (B)   A blanket bond may be obtained to cover the faithful performance of
all other employees, Commission members and persons acting on behalf of the
town, so required to be covered.
(1985 Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 34.32  VACATIONS.
   Full-time employees of the town shall be entitled to paid vacations as set
forth by proper ordinance of the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Payment of compensation procedures prior to a vacation leave, see I.C. 36-5-
4-7
§ 34.33  MILEAGE.
   (A)   Town employees who use personal cars for official town business shall
be paid at the current federally permissible mileage rate for business mileage
which is properly documented and approved.
   (B)   Town employees and officers who use personal cars for official town
business are to be paid  at the current permissible mileage rate for business
mileage which is documented and approved.
   (C)   Payment of such mileage shall only be after approval by the Town
Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-3-9)  (Ord. 156, passed 3-13-1997)
Statutory reference:
   State-established mileage reimbursement rate, see I.C. 36-2-7-7
§ 34.34  REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL AND BUSINESS EXPENSES.
   (A)   Travel-related expenses.
      (1)   Authorization required. The employee must submit a copy of the
registration form or other written material regarding the travel and
anticipated expenses.
      (2)   Expenses which may be reimbursed.
         (a)   Air, rail, bus, taxi and airport limousine expenses, if such
ground transportation is reasonable and necessary for the purpose of the trip;
         (b)   Normal travel gratuities, up to but not exceeding 15% of the
total cost of the product and/or service;
         (c)   Use of privately owned vehicles at the current federally
permissible mileage rate;
         (d)   Necessary parking and storage fees;
         (e)   Lodging at actual cost at single room rate (lowest cost);
         (f)   Meal expenses at actual cost up to $25 per day or the then-
current amount allowed per day by the state;
         (g)   All other expenses necessarily incurred directly related to the
purpose of travel, such as taxi fare, tolls, parking, registration, business
phone calls and the like, at actual cost; in the event of an overnight stay
while on town business, personal telephone call will be reimbursed up to the
sum of $5 per night;
         (h)   Expenses which shall not be reimbursed:
            1.   Personal entertainment;
            2.   Fines for parking, speeding and the like;
            3.   Alcoholic beverages;
            4.   Travel related to personal entertainment;
            5.   Groceries; and
            6.   Items disallowed as stated under precious headings.
         (i)   If an employee elects to stay longer than was previously
approved, and such extension is not business related, the employee will be
required to pay all additional expenses arising from the extended stay; and
         (j)   An employee of the town while on town-related business out of
town will be paid for the actual hours expended on town related business up to
and not to exceed eight hours per day, whether or not the employee remains out
of town or overnight.
   (B)   Reimbursement procedures.
      (1)   Required documentation.
         (a)   Upon return, an employee must submit the original credit card
receipt and cash receipt.; and
         (b)   A completed and signed claim form identifying the person to
receive payment.
      (2)   Payment of authorized expenses by town. The town shall reimburse
all authorized expenses within three business days following submission of
acceptable receipts or other required documentation of allowable expenses.
(Ord. 05-227, passed 12-27-2005)
ELECTIONS
§ 34.45  CONDUCT AND SCHEDULE OF TOWN ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-2.9, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall stand for
election in the year 2019 (or holdover in office under Article 15, § 3 of the
State Constitution) and serve for a three-year term and take office on January
1 following his or her election (or holdover in office), with the term ending
December 31, 2022. An election for the successor to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
elected in the year 2019 will occur in the year 2022 and shall serve for a term
of four years. Thereafter, all terms for office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall be for four years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-2.9, the members of the Town Council shall
stand for election in the year 2019 (or holdover in office under Article 15, §
3 of the State Constitution) and shall serve for a three-year term and take
office on the first day of January following his or her election (or holdover
in office), with the term ending December 31, 2022. An election for the
successors to the members of the Town Council elected in the year 2019 will
occur in the year 2022 and shall serve for a term of four years. Thereafter,
all terms for members of the Town Council shall be for four years and until a
successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   This section will be effective for the elections beginning in 2019,
forward, until this section is repealed pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-2.9(d), as
amended or supplemented.
   (D)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall file a copy of this section in the
office of the County Circuit Court Clerk.
(Ord. 2018-003, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 34.46  NOMINATING CANDIDATES FOR TOWN OFFICE.
   (A)   Major party candidates for a town office of the town shall be
nominated through the method of a primary election.
   (B)   The nomination of major party candidates for a town office for the
town through the method of political town convention shall be abolished.
   (C)   The County Election Board shall conduct the primary election for
nomination of major party candidates for a town office for the town.
   (D)   All state statutes governing primary elections for towns shall apply
to the nomination of major party candidates for town offices for the town.
   (E)   The town shall not change the method of nominating major party
candidates for its town offices more than one time in any 12-year period.
   (F)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall file a copy of this section in the
office of the County Circuit Court Clerk.
(Ord. 2018-004, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 34.47  ABOLISHING LEGISLATIVE DISTRICTS.
   Legislative districts within the town are abolished, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-
2-4.1(e)(1), and henceforth all members are to be elected at large.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-8-1992)
CHAPTER 35:  FUNDS
Section
   
35.01   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
35.02   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (MVH)
   
35.03   Accident Report Account
   
35.04   Firearms Training Fund
   
35.05   Revenue Sharing Program Fund
   
35.06   Local Road and Street Fund (LRS)
   
35.07   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.08   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.09   Local Option Income Tax Fund
   
35.10   Major Moves Construction Fund
   
35.11   Riverboat Gambling Revenue Sharing Fund
   
35.12   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
35.13   Donation Fund
   
35.14   County Community Foundation Grant Fund
   
35.15   Special Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
35.16   Entertainment and Promotion Fund
   
35.17   Cumulative Investment Incentive Program Repayment Fund
§ 35.01  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund is
established.
   (B)   Purpose. This special fund is established for the purpose of receiving
cigarette taxes allocated to the town pursuant to applicable state law and said
funds shall not revert to the General Fund.
   (C)   Capital improvements. Such monies shall be used solely for capital
improvements, herein defined as the construction or improvement of any property
owned by the town, including, but not limited to, streets, thoroughfares and
sewers, the retirement of general obligation bonds and salaries of public
officials and employees directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
(1985 Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 35.02  MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND (MVH).
   (A)   The “Motor Vehicle Highway Fund” (201) is hereby retained and shall be
renamed “Motor Vehicle Highway Fund - Unallocated” (201) (the “Unallocated
Fund”).
      (1)   The Unallocated Fund will receive 50% of all State Motor Vehicle
Highway distributions received after June 30, 2017.
      (2)   The Unallocated Fund will retain any cash balance including
investment income and interest as of June 30, 2017.
      (3)   The Unallocated Fund will receive all miscellaneous revenues
related to either the Allocated Fund (as hereinafter defined) or the
Unallocated Fund.
      (4)   The Unallocated Fund will be used for any legal expenditure of
motor vehicle highway dollars.
   (B)   The “Motor Vehicle Highway Fund - Allocated” (250) (the “Allocated
Fund”) is hereby created.
      (1)   The Allocated Fund will receive 50% of all State Motor Vehicle
Highway distributions received after June 30, 2017.
      (2)   The Allocated Fund will be used solely for the construction,
reconstruction and maintenance of highways as defined in I.C. 8-14-1-1.
      (3)   The Allocated Fund balances will remain in the fund and will not
revert to the Unallocated Fund.
      (4)   The Allocated Fund balances will not be eligible for transfer to
the Rainy Day Fund 245.
(1985 Code, § 2-7-2)  (Ord. 2017-010, passed 6-22-2017)
§ 35.03  ACCIDENT REPORT ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is created an Accident Report Account for the Town Police
Department. A fee of $5 shall be charged for each report.
   (B)   The source of funds which are to be deposited into said fund are the
fees received for accident reports and information under I.C. 9-26-9-3.
   (C)   This fund may be expended at the discretion into said fund are the
fees received for accident reports and information under I.C. 9-26-9-3.
   (D)   The rules for proper accounting and expenditure of monies collected
and deposited into said fund shall be those established by the State Board of
Accounts.
(1985 Code, § 2-7-3)
Statutory reference:
   Police Department to charge a fee fixed by ordinance in an amount of not
less than $3 for each written report, see I.C. 9-3-1-3, as amended on March 5,
1984
§ 35.04  FIREARMS TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   A Firearms Training Fund is established for the Town Police
Department.
   (B)   The source of funds which are to be deposited into this fund are the
application fees collected for licenses to carry handguns under I.C. 35-47-2-3.
   (C)   This fund is to be used by the Town Police Department and used
exclusively for the purpose of training law enforcement officers in the proper
use of firearms or other law enforcement duties.
   (D)   The rules for proper accounting and expenditure of monies collected
and deposited into said fund shall be those established by the State Board of
Accounts.
(1985 Code, § 2-7-4)
§ 35.05  REVENUE SHARING PROGRAM FUND.
   The Revenue Sharing Program Fund is established for the purposes of
receiving such federal monies and the proper disbursement of such funds
thereafter.
(1985 Code, § 2-7-5)
§ 35.06  LOCAL ROAD AND STREET FUND (LRS).
   The Local Road and Street Fund (LRS) is established for the purpose of
receiving applicable state funds and for expenditures permitted by statute.
(1985 Code, § 2-7-6)
§ 35.07  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established an Town Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
   (B)   An valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from the
levy will be retained in the Town Cumulative Capitol Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) above will not exceed
$0.15 per $100 of assessed valuation for 1994 payable 1995, $0.15 per $100 of
assessed valuation for 1995 payable 1996, and $0.15 per $100 of assessed
valuation for 1996 payable 1997.
   (D)   The Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund is re-established for the
years 1994, 1995 and 1996.
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Town Cumulative Development Fund will be
used for acquisition of real property and the construction, enlarging,
improving, remodeling, repairing and equipping of municipally owned buildings, 
streets, sidewalks, drains, recreation areas, utility lines and systems to the
extent permitted under the following:
      (1)   I.C. 36-8-14 Cumulative Firefighting Building, Equipment and Police
Fund;
      (2)   I.C. 36-9-16-2 Cumulative Buildings;
      (3)   I.C. 36-9-16-3 Cumulative Capital Improvement;
      (4)   I.C. 36-9-17 General Improvement;
      (5)   I.C. 36-9-26 Cumulative Building Fund-Sewer; and
      (6)   I.C. 36-10-4-36 Cumulative Sinking and Building Fund-Park; and, any
ancillary use permitted by any of the foregoing statutes.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E) above, funds accumulated in the town’s
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (E) above, if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare of safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
Town Council and President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare
and safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the
fund.
   (G)   This fund takes effect upon approval of the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(Ord. 136, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 35.08  RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   A Rainy Day Fund is hereby established in the town, to be known as the
“Orland Rainy Day Fund” and shall be controlled according to the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
   (B)   The Town Rainy Day Fund shall consist of the unused and unencumbered
balance that is remaining in a fund containing amounts raised by a general or
special tax levy on all the taxable property of the town which has been
transferred by the Town Council to the Town Rainy Day Fund. The Town Rainy Day
Fund shall also consist of 25% of the one-time special distribution received by
the town from the County Auditor pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-9-17. The Clerk-
Treasurer is instructed to deposit 25% of the one-time special distribution
received from the County Auditor into the Town Rainy Day Fund, upon its
receipt.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money. Before making an appropriation from the
Rainy Day Fund, the Town Council shall make a finding that the proposed use of
the Rainy Day Fund is consistent with the intent of the fund.
   (E)   In any fiscal year, the Town Council may transfer not more than 10% of
the town’s total budget for that fiscal year to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (F)   The Orland Rainy Day Fund shall operate with all the powers,
obligations and privileges authorized under the Act as the same is presently in
force and effect, or as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 04-220, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2016-002, passed 5-9-2016)
§ 35.09  LOCAL OPTION INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, PUBLIC SAFETY shall be as established in the
Act, being I.C. 36-8- 19-7.5 and any amendments thereto, and includes the
following:
      (1)   A police and law enforcement system to preserve public peace and
order;
      (2)   A firefighting and fire prevention system;
      (3)   Emergency ambulance services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-107);
      (4)   Emergency medical services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110);
      (5)   Emergency action (as defined in I.C. 13-11-2-65);
      (6)   A probation department of a court;
      (7)   Confinement, supervision, services under a community corrections
program or other correctional services for a person who has been:
         (a)   Diverted before a final hearing or trial under an agreement that
is between the county prosecuting attorney and the person or the person’s
custodian, guardian or parent and that provides for confinement, supervision,
community corrections services or other correctional services instead of a
final action described in divisions (A)(7)(b) or (A)(7)(c) below;
         (b)   Convicted of a crime; or
         (c)   Adjudicated as a delinquent child or a child in need of
services.
      (8)   A juvenile detention facility under I.C. 31-31-8;
      (9)   A juvenile detention center under I.C. 31-31-9;
      (10)   A communications system (as defined in I.C. 36-8-15-3) or an
enhanced emergency telephone system;
      (11)   Medical and health expenses for jail inmates and other confined
persons; and
      (12)   Pension payments for any of the following:
         (a)   A member of the Fire Department (as defined in I.C. 36-8-1-8) or
any other employee of a fire department;
         (b)   A member of the Police Department (as defined in I.C. 36-8-1-9),
a Police Chief hired under a waiver under I.C. 36-8-4-6.5, or any other
employee hired by a police department; and
         (c)   Other personnel employed to provide a service described in this
section.
   (B)   A non-reverting Local Option Income Tax Fund is hereby established in
the town, to be known as the “Local Option Income Tax Public Safety Fund” (“the
fund”). All revenues received from the county or the state as the result of
distributions from the Local Option Income Tax imposed pursuant to the Act
shall be transferred to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town for deposit into the
fund hereby established.
   (C)   The Council shall administer the fund. The fund shall be appropriated
and spent in accordance with the general rules of the Council and any
applicable state statute. The fund shall be used for expenditures including or
related to public safety only.
(Ord. 234-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 35.10  MAJOR MOVES CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   A Major Moves Construction Fund is hereby established in the town, to
be known as the “Major Moves Construction Fund” and shall be administered
according to the provisions of the Act, being I.C. 8-14-16 et seq. for the
purposes of funding those expenditures listed in the Act.
   (B)   In addition to funding those expenditures listed in the Act, such
monies may be invested in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9 et seq. Proceeds from
such investments may be deposited in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9 et seq.
(Ord. 330-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 35.11  RIVERBOAT GAMBLING REVENUE SHARING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the town a fund for the deposit of
wagering taxes received from riverboat gambling within the territorial
boundaries of the state which are allocated to the town, under I.C. 4-33-13-5,
as amended. Said fund shall be referred to as the town’s Riverboat Gambling
Revenue Sharing Fund.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Town Riverboat Gambling Revenue Sharing Fund
shall be expended only for the following purposes:
      (1)   To reduce the property tax levy of the town for a particular year;
      (2)   For deposit in a special fund or allocation fund created under I.C.
36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-14.5 to provide funding for additional credits for
property tax replacement in property tax increment allocation areas;
      (3)   To fund sewer and water projects, including storm water management
projects;
      (4)   For police and fire pension; provided however, not more than 20% of
the money received under I.C. 4-33-13-5, as amended, may be used for this
particular purpose; or
      (5)   For any legal or corporate purpose of the town.
   (C)   Monies in said Town Riverboat Gambling Revenue Sharing Fund shall be
appropriated and expended in accordance with the general rules to which other
funds are subject.
   (D)   All monies placed in said Town Riverboat Gambling Revenue Sharing Fund
shall be invested and reinvested pursuant to the standard procedures followed
by the town, and said funds shall not revert to the town’s General Fund at the
end of each year.
(Ord. 03-217, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 35.12  LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   A fund is hereby established in the town to be known as the “LOIT
Special Distribution Fund” for the purposed of receipting and accounting for
the portion of the one-time special distribution being made pursuant to the
Act, being I.C. 6-3.6-9-17 and which is required to be restricted. The Clerk-
Treasurer is instructed to deposit 75% of the one-time special distribution
received from the County Auditor into said fund upon its receipt.
   (B)   (1)   The fund hereby established shall be used exclusively for:
         (a)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems;
         (b)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street or thoroughfare projects;
         (c)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or
reservoir road project under I.C. 8-23-5;
         (d)   The purchase, rental or repair of highway equipment;
         (e)   Providing a match for a grant from the local road and bridge
matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30; and
         (f)   Capital projects for aviation related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a board of aviation commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2 or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1; or
as otherwise allowed by law.
      (2)   Such monies may be invested in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9 et seq.
Proceeds from such investments may be deposited in accordance with I.C. 5-13-
9 et seq.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 5-9-2016)
§ 35.13  DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the town a fund for the deposit of all
donations made to the Town Police Department with specific sub-categories of
accounts under the fund for each type of donation received. Established fund
and its sub-categories of accounts shall include any donations to the town
through personal donation or fundraising, including any donations from use of
the town park, any donations from use of the Community Center Building and any
donations to the Town Police Department, as well as any other donation to the
town as determined by the Town Clerk-Treasurer which would require the creation
of a separate and additional sub-category of account. Said fund shall be
referred to as the “Town of Orland Donation Fund.”
   (B)   Monies deposited in said sub-categories of accounts of the Town
Donation Fund shall be expended without appropriations only for the purposes
for which each sub-category account was established including:
      (1)   To fund maintenance and upkeep for the town park;
      (2)   To fund maintenance and upkeep for the Community Center Building;
      (3)   To fund maintenance and needs for the Town Police Department; or
      (4)   For any legal or corporate purpose of the town.
   (C)   All monies placed in said Town Donation Fund shall be invested and
reinvested pursuant to the standard procedures followed by the town, and said
funds shall not revert to the town’s General Fund at the end of each year.
(Ord. 2016-005, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 35.14  COUNTY COMMUNITY FOUNDATION GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the town a fund for the deposit of a
grant awarded to the Town Police Department from the County Community
Foundation. Said fund shall be referred to as the “Steuben County Community
Foundation Grant Fund”.
   (B)   Monies deposited in the fund of the County Community Foundation Grant
Fund shall be expended without appropriations only for the purposes for which
the grant was awarded: provide safety equipment to town police officers.
   (C)   Any unexpended monies in said County Community Foundation Grant Fund
shall be returned to the County Community Foundation at the close of the
project or if the Foundation determines the grantee has not performed in
accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 2016-006, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 35.15  SPECIAL VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   A Special Vehicle Inspection Fund is established for the Town Police
Department. A fee of $5 shall be charged for each inspection.
   (B)   The source of funds which are to be deposited in to this fund are the
fees collected for vehicle inspections under I.C. 9-17-2-12.
   (C)   This fund is to be used by the Town Police Department and used only
for law enforcement purposes as the Town Council appropriates.
   (D)   The rules for proper accounting and expenditure of monies collected
and deposited in to said fund shall be those established by the State Board of
Accounts.
(Ord. 97, passed 11-5-1990)
§ 35.16  ENTERTAINMENT AND PROMOTION FUND.
   (A)   An Entertainment and Promotion Fund is established to receive and
expend funds for food, lodging, recognition of leaders and benefactors, and
entertainment incurred in the promotion of the town and its citizens, the
recruitment of development contacts, attendance at seminars and conferences, or
meetings with state, federal and local administrative officers. The Town
Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General
Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the
betterment of the town.
   (B)   Expenditures from this fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meeting room rental, decorations,
meals and travel; and
      (4)   Expenses incurred in the recognition of leaders and benefactors of
the town and community.
(Ord. 109, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 35.17  CUMULATIVE INVESTMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM REPAYMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is established a Town Cumulative Investment Incentive Program
Repayment Fund. Said Fund is created in accordance with the direction of the
State Board of Accounts and the regulations of the State Department of
Commerce, Said fund is established for receiving unpledged repayments of
investment incentive program loans, excluding any program income, made in
conformity with the provisions of the State Incentive Program grants of the
State Department of Commerce.
   (B)   The provisions set forth herein shall not apply to funds or repayment
receivables pledged to the repayment of any presently existing, or hereafter
created, improvement project revenue bonds (recapture bonds), which funds shall
be handled in accordance with the provisions of the instruments pertaining
thereto, nor shall the provisions hereof apply to any funds classified as
“program income” under applicable regulations which income shall be segregated
from the funds to which this section applies and handled and disbursed under
the provisions applicable thereto.
   (C)   The funds accumulated in the funds accumulated in the Cumulative
Investment Incentive Program Repayment Fund are to be used to provide for
employment and services for the benefit of low to moderate income persons
living or working in or near the town, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Any use for which funds are permitted under the provisions of I.C.
36-9-15.5;
      (2)   Any the acquisition of vehicles and equipment related to or
ancillary to I.C. 36-9-15.5, such as police vehicles, street cleaning equipment
and the like;
      (3)   The granting of secured loans to private entities in order to
induce the latter to acquire equipment or construct improvements which will be
kept in and located within the town, which will create or retain employment
opportunities or housing for low to moderate income persons living in or near
the town. Any such loans shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
division (D) below; and
      (4)   Any other use or reuse permitted under the terms of the regulations
applicable to Investment Incentive Program grants of the State Department of
Commerce.
   (D)   Any loan made under the terms of division (C)(3) above shall provide:
      (1)   Any equipment or construction whose purchase is funded under the
terms of said loan is to have such equipment or real estate as a portion of the
security for the repayment of said loan (the town may require additional
security other than such equipment and real estate if it is determined that
such is required); the lien upon such equipment and real estate shall be a
first lien;
      (2)   The repayment amortization on any loan shall not exceed the
depreciable life of said equipment; and
      (3)   Promissory notes and security agreements for said loans are to be
prepared in accordance with the review of the Town Council and Town Attorney
and are to contain standard default provisions and for the payment of all
expenses pertaining to the making of said loan and collection thereof including
reasonable attorney fees.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall be interpreted in accordance with
the provisions of applicable state and federal statutes and regulations
regarding the use, holding and reuse of funds pertaining to the Investment
Incentive Program administered by the State Department of Commerce.
   (F)   The funds to which this account applies shall not revert to the
General Fund of the town, shall accumulate and shall not require appropriations
unless required by applicable law.
(Ord. 101, passed 7-2-1991)
CHAPTER 36:  TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
36.01   Uniform internal control standards
   
36.02   Vehicle inspection fee
   
36.03   Cost for copy machine use
§ 36.01  UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The recitations in the ordinance codified herein are adopted as
findings by the Town Council.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts as policy the internal control standards as set
forth by the State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for
Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual, as expressly written and published by
the State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to
time.
   (C)   The Town Council directs that the above-adopted the internal control
standards be used to design, implement, operate and modify current operations,
reporting and compliance objectives that safeguard the town, promote
reliability, accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial
information and to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office,
department and covered personnel for an effective and reasonable internal
control system of the town.
   (D)   It is further ordained that at the time the annual financial report is
electronically filed, the Clerk- Treasurer as fiscal officer of the town shall
certify in writing that the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions have been adopted and shall certify that all required
personnel have received training as required by law.
   (E)   All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including, but not limited to, termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-003, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 36.02  VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-17-2-12, there is hereby established in the town a
fee of $5 for each inspection by a police officer of a vehicle that must be
registered with the state. A receipt shall be issued for each payment of said
fee. The proceeds shall be deposited in the Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund.
   (B)   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this section or any
other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this section. Those rights, liabilities and proceedings are
continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this section had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 36.03  COST FOR COPY MACHINE USE.
   The town requires a reasonable monetary charge for these and other records
to cover said costs, a said amount is now set at $0.10 per copy for letter size
documents and $0.25 per copy for legal size documents.
(Ord. 157, passed 3-13-1997)
CHAPTER 37:  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
37.01   Establishment
   
37.02   Fine schedule adopted by reference
§ 37.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created, pursuant to I.C. 33-36-2-1, an ordinance
violations bureau for the town to be known as the “Orland Ordinance Violations
Bureau.”
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated and appointed to serve
as Violations Clerk and vested with such power and authority as provided in
I.C. 33-36-2-1 through 33-36-2-5, the provisions of which are hereby
incorporated by reference.
   (C)   The Violations Clerk may accept admissions of violations of the
certain provisions of the town code.
   (D)   All of the provisions set forth in the above referenced town code
provisions are hereby amended to the amount set forth herein. In no event is
there to be assessed, as civil penalty, a sum in excess of $50.
(Ord. 124, passed 7-12-1992; Ord. 188, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 37.02  FINE SCHEDULE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The fees and fines of the town are hereby adopted by reference and included
herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 124, passed 7-12-1992; Ord. 188, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 166, passed 1-8-
1998)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
52.   WATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Authority to establish utility services
   
50.02   Authority to establish waterworks
   
50.03   Authority to regulate the disposal of sanitary sewage
   
50.04   Water wells; distance restriction
   
50.05   Clerk-Treasurer; collection of delinquent accounts
   
50.06   Town water utility removed from jurisdiction of State Utility Rate
Commission
§ 50.01  AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH UTILITY SERVICES.
   A town may furnish or regulate the furnishing of utility service to the
public.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 50.02  AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH WATERWORKS.
   A town may regulate the furnishing of water to the public, and may
establish, maintain and operate waterworks.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 50.03  AUTHORITY TO REGULATE THE DISPOSAL OF SANITARY SEWAGE.
   (A)   A town may regulate the furnishing of the service of collecting,
processing and disposing of waste substances and domestic or sanitary sewage,
which includes the power to fix the price to be charged for that service.
   (B)   A town may collect, process and dispose of waste substances and
domestic or sanitary sewage, and may establish, maintain and operate sewers,
sewage disposal systems and systems to collect and dispose of waste substances.
(1985 Code, § 9-1-3)
§ 50.04  WATER WELLS; DISTANCE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No person, firm or entity shall cause, allow, suffer, permit,
construct or maintain any sewers, drains, privies, cesspools, septic tanks or
any other above or below ground potential source of dangerous contamination to
a municipal water well within a 200-foot radius of a municipal water well or a
proposed municipal water well site.
   (B)   This section is not to be construed as prohibiting the use of the land
subject to this section for any purpose, providing such use does not represent
any potential source of dangerous contamination to said municipal well.
   (C)   This section is to be in addition to any zoning or subdivision control
ordinance pertaining to said activities and/or any other state, federal, county
or other local ordinance, rule, regulation or statute.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, an existing or proposed municipal
water well shall consist of the well sites described on Exhibit A, which is on
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, and the 200-foot radius shall be as
described thereon. This section shall also apply to any future well sites or
future proposed well sites, provided the actual site of any such future well is
located upon municipally controlled land, there are no existing sources of
contamination within the 200-foot radius at the time of declaration of the site
as proposed well site, and the municipality shall adopt a resolution describing
the proposed well site and records the same with the County Recorder within ten
days after adoption of the resolution.
   (E)   Violations of this section may be enjoined, and the cost of removing
any improvement or correcting any activities pertaining to a violation thereof
shall be charged to the owner of the land upon which the violation occurred and
the person or entity causing the violation.
   (F)   This section may be enforced by any legal or equitable means available
to the town, including, but not limited to, the procedures as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-1 or amendments thereof, and the town may assess and recover such civil
penalties and other relief as permitted by applicable statutes.
   (G)   No construction shall occur within the restricted 200-foot radius area
referred to herein without the consent of the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 9-2-1)  (Ord. 43, passed 5-24-1984)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05  CLERK-TREASURER; COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall henceforth be responsible for the collection
of any and all public utilities accounts that are 60 days or more delinquent
and that said Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and empowered by the Town Council
to employee any legal collection method or combination of collection methods
that said Clerk-Treasurer deems necessary to successfully collect all such
delinquent accounts in a timely manner.
(Res. 158, passed 5-8-1997)
§ 50.06  TOWN WATER UTILITY REMOVED FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE UTILITY RATE
COMMISSION.
   It is in the best interest of said town and its residents and consumers that
the water utility be removed from the jurisdiction of the State Utility Rate
Commission, and that said utility is hereby withdrawn and removed from the
jurisdiction of the State Utility Rate Commission.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-13-1993)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
51.01   Garbage collection fee
§ 51.01  GARBAGE COLLECTION FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a garbage collection fee for each
residence in the sums set forth below.
   (B)   All owners, occupiers and lessees of a residence shall be charged for
garbage pickup and sanitary disposal by the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his or her
designee, and those owners, occupiers and lessees shall pay for such service
monthly in advance pursuant to the following rates and charges established by
the Town Council.
 
Year  Amount Admin. Fee Total
2017* $11.75 $0.25      $12.00
*And thereafter, provided that said rates and charges may be changed or
readjusted in the manner by which they were originally established. However,
if the change or readjustment is made substantially pro rata as to all
classes of use or service, no hearing or notice is required.
 
   (C)   A late fee of $0.50 per month will be assessed on unpaid accounts. Any
owner, occupier or lessee subject to this section and due to the reason of no
garbage and rubbish production for any continuous period exceeding two months
(i.e., seasonal residence) may apply to the Town Council for exception from the
requirements of this section during said period; said exception to be at the
sole discretion of the Town Council and must be in writing.
(Ord. 2017-006, passed 4-21-2017)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER UTILITY
Section
   
52.01   Governing
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Rules and regulations on file
   
52.04   Written application or contract required
   
52.05   Modification of contract
   
52.06   Assignment of contract
   
52.07   Deposits
   
52.08   Description of service to be furnished
   
52.09   Turning on water service
   
52.10   Discontinuance of service
   
52.11   Service connection
   
52.12   Maintenance of service pipes and meter boxes
   
52.13   Thawing frozen pipes/services
   
52.14   Inside piping and service lines
   
52.15   Cross-connections and backflow
   
52.16   Use of booster pumps
   
52.17   Access to premises, location
   
52.18   Metering
   
52.19   Pre-wiring for remote water reading units
   
52.20   Basis for monthly billing
   
52.21   Payment of bills
   
52.22   Adjustment of bills
   
52.23   Collections and deferred payment charge
   
52.24   Waste or excessive use of water
   
52.25   Notification of load increase
   
52.26   Resale of water
   
52.27   Private fire protection service
   
52.28   Interruption of water service and the like
   
52.29   Permanent disconnections
   
52.30   Water main extensions
   
52.31   Rates and charges
   
52.32   Present rules supersede any prior rules
   
52.33   Enforcement
   
52.34   Amendments and revisions
§ 52.01  GOVERNING.
   The rules and regulations of the utility, as amended and supplemented from
time to time, shall govern all water service rendered or to be rendered by the
utility; shall be binding upon every customer; and shall constitute a part of
the terms and conditions of every contract for water service, whether expressly
incorporated therein or not, or whether or not a signed application for water
service is on file.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION.  The Public Service Commission of the State of Indiana.
   CONTRACT.  An agreement between the utility and the customer by which the
utility sets forth its conditions to provide water service.
   CURB STOP or SERVICE VALVE.  A fitting inserted in the service pipe near the
curb or main for turning on and shutting off water to the premises supplied or
to be supplied.
   CUSTOMER or CONSUMER.  The person, firm, corporation, governmental agency or
association having interest, whether legal or equitable, sole or only partial,
either as tenant or owner, in any property which is, or is to be, supplied with
water service, either temporarily or permanently, by the utility and all those
having such interest.
   DISTRIBUTION MAIN.  A pipe owned by the utility, located in a street,
easement, road, right-of-way and/or alley and used to deliver water:
      (1)   To fire hydrants or fire lines;
      (2)   To service pipes attached to said water main; and/or
      (3)   To private mains.
   METER.  The mechanical device owned by the utility and used to measure and
record the quantity of water supplied to the customer.
   MONTH.  The period between any two consecutive regular billings by the
utility for service rendered to a customer at his or her premises. Such
billings are scheduled at intervals of approximately 30 days.
   PLUMBER.  A person or firm licensed by the State of Indiana and recognized
qualified to perform plumbing services.
   PREMISES.  A dwelling, building, structure or parcel of real estate which is
normally supplied through a separate water service pipe and meter.
   PRIVATE FIRE SERVICEORFIRE SYSTEM. A privately owned arrangement of pipes,
fixtures and devices designed for stand-by service and from which is taken only
for the extinguishment of fires.
   PRIVATE WATER MAIN.  A privately owned pipe connected to the utility’s
distribution system and used to deliver water:
      (1)   For private fire service purposes; and/or
      (2)   For general service purposes; services rendered through such
private main shall be billed directly in accordance with established rates
unless otherwise provided by written contract with the utility.
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY.  Water used on a premises as geothermal energy
source, cooling water, manufacturing and other supplemental water usually drawn
from private wells or captured surface waters, located on or near the premises
served by the utility public supply.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The portion of a service pipe situated between and
including the tap and the curb stop, installed and/or maintained by the
utility.
   SERVICE PIPE.  A supply pipe including pipe and fittings leading from the
tap in the distribution system main to or into the premises supplied or to be
supplied.
   TAP or CORPORATION COCK.  A fitting owned by the utility and inserted in the
distribution main to be used as the service pipe connection.
   UTILITY.  The town water utility, a department of the Town of Orland, in the
State of Indiana, having its principal office at 101 East State Street, Orland,
Indiana, and engaged in furnishing the public water supply in the town and its
environs.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.03  RULES AND REGULATIONS ON FILE.
   (A)   A copy of all rates, rules and regulations under which water service
will be rendered from the utility to its customers is on file for the
convenience of the public in the general offices of the utility and with the
Public Service Commission of the state.
   (B)   Information provided by utility to applicants and customers: the
utility will publish and distribute, without request, a copy of a comprehensive
pamphlet which, in clear language easily understandable to the layman, fully
describes the rights and responsibilities of the customer/consumer.
   (C)   Upon request by the applicant or customer, the utility will furnish,
free of charge, a copy of the rate schedule for new and existing customers.
   (D)   The utility, whenever it petitions for the Public Service Commission
for a change in its rate schedule, will furnish to each customer, within the
prescribed schedule, a notice that fairly summarizes the nature and extent of
proposed changes in existing rates.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.04  WRITTEN APPLICATION OR CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A written service application and/or properly executed contract and
paid receipt for all applicable fees and charges will be required from the
applicant (including contractors or builders) before the utility will be able
to supply service; however, the utility may reject an application for a valid
reason, where unusual construction or equipment expenses are involved in the
furnishing of service, the utility may require the water services contract to
be for an appropriate period of time specified by the utility with notification
of termination of water service.
   (B)   A prospective service application customer must show positive
identification when applying for service (i.e., driver’s license and the like).
A written contract for service shall be in full force and effect until the
party contracting for service serves the utility with notification of intent to
terminate water service.
   (C)   Should the utility deny service, the utility shall immediately notify
the applicant, in writing, stating the precise facts upon which the utility
based its decision and shall provide the applicant with an opportunity to rebut
such facts and show facts demonstrating creditworthiness.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.05  MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT.
   No promise, agreement or representation by any agent, employee or officer of
the utility shall be binding upon the utility unless incorporated in a written
contract signed and approved by an agent authorized to sign such contract on
behalf of the utility and its administrators. No adjustments to applicable
rates as set forth in the rate schedule shall be allowed in any case and under
any circumstances.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.06  ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT.
   The benefits and obligations under any contract for supply of water by the
utility will begin when the utility commences to supply water in service
thereunder and shall inure to and be binding upon the successors or assigns or
survivors, executors or administrators, as the case may be, of the original
parties thereto, respectively, for the full term thereof; provided, that no
assignment thereof shall be made by the customer or by any successor, assign,
survivor, executor or administrator unless there be expressed written consent
by the utility to any such assignment.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.07  DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The utility shall require from each applicant for water service a cash
deposit as a guarantee against the non-payment of bills for service. The amount
of such deposit shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
utility.
   (B)   The utility may require a present customer to make a reasonable cash
deposit when the customer has been mailed a disconnect notice for two
consecutive months or any three months within the preceding 12-month period, or
when the service has been disconnected pursuant to §
52.21. The amount of such deposit will be as established from time to time by
resolution of the utility. In cases where such deposit is required as a result
of a disconnection for non-payment, full payment of the deposit will be
required prior to restoration of service.
   (C)   Any deposit will be refunded promptly, along with a statement
accounting for each transaction involving the deposit, upon satisfactory
payment by the customer for a period of 12 months consecutively. Any customer
whose account was delinquent for any two consecutive months during said 12-
month period will not qualify for such consideration.
   (D)   Procedure following a customer request for termination of service:
      (1)   The utility will require payment of any past due balance currently
billed and owing;
      (2)   The utility will apply the deposit to the final billing; and
      (3)   Any portion of said deposit remaining after such application will
be forwarded to the customer.
   (E)   The utility will maintain a record of each applicant or customer
making a deposit which will indicate:
      (1)   The name of the customer;
      (2)   The current address of the customer so long as there exists as
active account with the utility in the same name;
      (3)   The amount of the deposit;
      (4)   The date of receipt of deposit; and
      (5)   A record of each transaction affecting such deposit.
   (F)   Each customer will be provided a written receipt from the utility at
the time the deposit is paid.
   (G)   Any deposit made by the applicant, customer or any other person to the
utility (less any lawful deductions), or any sum which the utility is ordered
to refund for utility service, which was remained unclaimed for seven years
after the utility has made diligent efforts to locate the person who made such
deposit or the heirs of such persons, will be presumed abandoned and treated in
accordance with the laws of this state as Uniform Disclaimer of Property
Interests Act, I.C. 32-17.5.
   (H)   A deposit may be used by the utility to apply toward any unpaid
balance following disconnection of service, provided, however, that any surplus
may be returned to the customer. In instances where the deposit is used to
apply to arrearages, the utility may require a new deposit to replace that
applied to unpaid balances before service is restored.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.08  DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE TO BE FURNISHED.
   Upon request, the customer shall present to the utility a written list of
the devices to be attached to the utility lines, giving the location of the
building. The utility will advise the form and character of the supply
available to the customer.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.09  TURNING ON WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Until a contract for water service has been executed and a meter
installed, or a three-month use permit for residential construction obtained,
or special arrangements are made to pay for other temporary, unmetered water
usage, water shall not be turned on at any premises, and then only by the water
utility representative. Water will not be turned on unless there is at least
one adult person present to see that all water outlets on the premises are
closed in order to present water damage.
   (B)   Should the utility schedule an appointment for turning on a water
service for any reason, other than credit turn-ons, and the customer fails to
keep that appointment, the return trip to the premises will cause an added trip
charge to be levied to the account. The amount of said charge shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the utility.
   (C)   When water is required to test plumbing before a water contract has
been executed and meter installed, a water utility employee shall be called to
make the turn-on and turn-off.
   (D)   It is a violation of both the water utility’s general rules and
regulations and the municipal code for anyone except a water utility employee
to make such turn-ons and turn-offs.
   (E)   A fee shall be charged by the utility for turning water service off
and on for the purpose of making repairs to a private plumbing system or for an
extended absence and similar occasions when the turn-on or turn-off is for the
benefit or convenience of the customer. The amount of said fee shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the utility.
   (F)   No person but an authorized representative of the utility, Fire
Department or Town Street Department shall open or operate any fire hydrant to
which water is supplied by the utility, or remove the nozzle cap from the
hydrant.
   (G)   Violation of this rule will subject the offender to the penalty
provided in the municipal code and for payment of the estimated quantity of
water used or wasted during the period the water was turned on without
authority of the water utility.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.10  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Customer requested service.
      (1)   The customer shall notify the utility at least seven working days
in advance of the day discontinuance is needed. In the case of termination of a
“fire protection service,” the customer’s notice shall be in written form,
signed by an authorized agent/representative of the customer. The customer
shall remain responsible for all the service used and the billings therefor
until service is terminated pursuant to such notice by the customer.
      (2)   Upon request by a customer of the utility to discontinue service,
the utility shall discontinue the service within seven working days of the
requested discontinuance date. The customer shall not be liable for any service
rendered to such address or location after the expiration of these seven
working days. The customer is responsible for providing access to the premises
for an actual final reading within the seven-day period. Failure to do so will
result in the utility rendering a final bill based on an average of previous
consumption. No adjustments will be made after the expiration of the seven-day
period.
      (3)   There will be no abatement of charges in whole or in part by reason
of the extended absence of the customer for any cause unless the utility has
been notified to turn off water service.
      (4)   When water service is temporarily discontinued at the request of
the customer, a charge for turning off and on the water service will be made to
the customer. The amount of said charge shall be established from time to time
by resolution of the utility.
      (5)   Rules in this section will not apply to any case where a customer
has entered into a contract with the utility to take service from the utility
for a definite period of time specified or provided for in such contract, and
such stipulation time has not expired.
      (6)   The utility will perform disconnect services only between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., prevailing local time, subject to fulfilling the
utility’s rules and regulations as may apply.
      (7)   The utility will not disconnect or terminate water service for non-
payment on any day on which the utility’s offices are closed to the public, or
after 12:00 noon of the day that is immediately preceding any day on which the
utility office is not open to the public.
   (B)   Without customer’s request.
      (1)   The utility may disconnect service without request by the customer:
         (a)   When an emergency exists;
         (b)   For any unauthorized use of water;
         (c)   For maintaining an unprotected “cross-connection” of a water
customer’s piping to any other source of water supply or for permitting any
condition to exist on or about the customer’s premises that causes or might
cause contamination and/or the pollution of the utility public water supply, or
any part thereof;
         (d)   Upon order by any authority having jurisdiction over matters of
public water supply;
         (e)   For failure to repair any leak in the service piping or
appurtenances between the service connection and the meter, or in any private
fire protection system, or other unmetered facilities;
         (f)   For tampering or knowingly permitting tampering with any service
piping, curb stop, service valve, meter or meter seal, or any other appliance
or equipment owned by the water utility;
         (g)   For the vacating of a premises, or abandonment of premises;
         (h)   For issuing a bad check or draft to the water utility;
         (i)   For failure to comply with the terms of a credit agreement;
         (j)   For failure to pay a cash security deposit in accordance with
the utility’s rules and regulations and/or rate structure;
         (k)   For failure to pay in accordance with the rules, any water
billings or other charges in connection with water utility service
installations or facilities at the service address, other service address or
otherwise, except as noted hereafter;
         (l)   For failure to provide free and non-hazardous access to the
premises and meter, appliances and/or other utility-owned equipment for the
utility to read meters, make inspections, replacements, relocations of meters,
appliances/equipment;
         (m)   For failure to maintain or cause to be maintained approved meter
settings, meter pits and vaults;
         (n)   For failure to maintain or cause to be maintained approved meter
settings, meter pits and vaults;
         (o)   For the installation of a new water service pipe and
appurtenances or altering or removing existing service pipe and appurtenances,
including the meter, without written authority by an authorized agent of the
water utility; and/or
         (p)   For waste or excessive use by a customer on a special purpose
unmetered rate, in excess of contract.
      (2)   In each case, except those arising under divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)
(1)(b), (B)(1)(d), (B)(1)(f), (B)(1)(g), (B)(1)(h), (B)(1)(i), (B)(1)(j), (B)
(1)(n) and (B)(1)(o) above, the utility will issue written notice of at least
five days either mailed to such customer at the address of record, or
personally delivered to the customer or person on the water customer’s
premises, advising the customer of the reason for the proposed termination of
water service and stating that service will be discontinued if the reason
continues and is uncorrected.
      (3)   When water service to the premises has been terminated for any
reason, water service will be restored only upon proper application to the
utility after conditions of the notice of termination have been properly
corrected and inspected by the utility, when all charges due from the customer
have been settled, and when arrangements have been made to provide access to
the premises during regular working hours of the utility. No payments in lieu
of disconnection will be accepted by utility personnel in the field. A service
charge will be due and owing at the time the disconnect order is issued,
whether disconnection of service has been effectuated or not prior to the
correction of the condition or conditions under or contained in the notice of
which service was scheduled to be discontinued. The amount of said charge shall
be established from time to time by resolution of the utility. If the
termination or restoration of service involves any excavating, the cost of such
work shall be borne by the customer.
      (4)   Should the conditions under which service was discontinued not be
corrected within 60 days, the utility shall have the right to finalize the
customer’s account. In the absence of a final meter reading, the utility will
renew a final bill based on the average of previous consumption; if
arrangements are made within seven working days after or following the date of
the final billing, adjustments will be made. No adjustments will be made after
the expiration of the seven-day period.
      (5)   Reconnection of the service is included in the initial base service
charge; however, if the utility schedules an appointment for reconnection and
the customer fails to keep that appointment, an additional service charge will
be added for each and every additional service call, plus any applicable hourly
charges for utility personnel. The amount of said additional charge shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the utility.
   (C)   Prohibited disconnections.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, the utility will postpone or cause to
be postponed, the disconnection of water service for 30 days, if: prior to the
disconnection date specified in the notice of disconnection, the customer
provided to the utility a medical statement from a licensed physician or public
health official which states that discontinuance of water service would be a
serious and immediate threat to the health or safety of a designated person in
the household of the customer. The postponement of disconnection will be
continued for one additional 30-day period upon the furnishing of an additional
medical statement.
      (2)   The utility will not disconnect service to the customer:
         (a)   Upon failure to pay for the service rendered at a different
meter address, residence or location, if such billing has remained unpaid for
less than 45 days; or
         (b)   Upon failure to pay for services to a previous occupant of
premises to be served, unless the utility has good reason to believe the
customer/applicant is attempting to defraud the water utility by using another
name.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.11  SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   The utility reserves the right to determine the placement of each
service connection so that the curb stop will, as a general rule, be located
between the present or proposed sidewalk and curb, or at such other location
that will, in the judgment of the utility, provide a safer, more convenient or
more satisfactory location for the curb stop and service box.
   (B)   It is required that the utility will furnish at the customer’s expense
the materials for the connection between the main and the curb box, including
the saddle, corp stop, service line, curb stop and curb box. Inside the
building, the utility will supply at owner’s expense, the yoke, backflow from
the main to curb stop. Customer will open and close trench, furnish all piping,
inside shutoff valve and labor to install service line. The trench will remain
open until inspected by the utility, and it is determined that the installation
meets all requirements. Basic three-quarter inch meter tap-on fee is to be in
the amount as established by resolution of the Town Council. Installations
requiring longer than usual piping runs and runs made in congested areas, and
for larger than three-quarters, the actual or estimated cost shall be paid
accordingly. The utility requires 48 hours of advance notice of need of such
materials.
      (1)   Inducement ordinances and resolutions with respect to the extension
of water mains to lots platted after August 31, 1987, are to be construed to be
limited to such lots which have streets, curbs, lighting and gutters. It is
further resolved that the phrase “extend water mains,” means only that the
utility will extend such water mains to said area in accordance with the
various provisions of the water use ordinance, subdivision control ordinance
and fee schedules pertaining thereto, and does not mean that the town will bear
the cost of such extensions.
      (2)   Water extensions being made to subdivisions governed by a
subdivision control ordinance shall take into consideration the applicable
subdivision control ordinance.
   (C)   The customer, at no expense to the utility, shall install or cause to
be installed the service piping beyond the curb stop and into the premises. The
utility and/or Town Building Inspector or Commission reserve the right to
inspect each service run made by a plumber, contractor or individual, for
proper materials and depth of the service before the service trench is
backfilled. However, the quality of material and workmanship shall be the
customer’s responsibility and must conform to applicable plumbing codes and
standards as if specifically mentioned. In the event that any portion of said
service piping is located upon a special easement granted to the town by the
occupants of said property at the time of the initial construction of the water
distribution system for the town, and said service piping was financed through
the proceeds of an FmHA grant or loan, then said service piping is to be
maintained, repaired and constructed in accordance with said agreement.
      (1)   Service piping of three inches and larger in diameter shall be
disinfected at the customer’s expense, before the water supply shall be turned
on for service. The customer shall perform or cause to be performed,
disinfection of such piping and appurtenances in compliance with the State
Board of Health Standards. There shall be at least three samples obtained from
the service piping on consecutive days and must be proven satisfactory for
usage, which shall be reported in writing to the utility by a laboratory
qualified to make such analysis and be acceptable to the utility.
      (2)   Water if furnished through a single service pipe to one property.
Where a single property consists of several units or buildings and is served by
a single service pipe, the property owner has the option of valving and
metering each unit or building separately. A separate valve must be provided
outside the building, and accessible to the utility, for each unit or building
metered. The utility may make special arrangements for exceptional situations
as required.
      (3)   In a case where a service has been installed prior to the adoption
of and not in accordance with these general rules and regulations, where water
is being taken from a single curb stop for supply for two or more units,
buildings or premises, each customer benefitting from such arrangements shall
be responsible for the payment of the individual usage charges and all other
legitimate charges.
      (4)   Any violation of the rules of the utility by either of the
occupants of said premises shall be deemed a violation as to all, and the
utility may enforce compliance with these rules by terminating the water supply
to all, except that such action will not be taken until the innocent customer
not in violation of the utility’s rules has been issued written notice and a
reasonable opportunity to attach said service to a separately controlled
service as if a new applicant.
   (D)   All service piping shall be grey cast or ductile cast iron, brass or
type “K” copper from the curb stop to the meter. No service pipe shall be less
than three-quarter-inch nominal diameter, and all service pipes shall be
installed with a minimum of four feet of ground cover.
   (E)   Service pipes, curb stops, service boxes, meter pits, stop and waste
valves and other fixtures used in the installation of, repairs to or additions
to service pipes shall be of a type and quality approved by the utility. The
material and supplies of any manufacturer in accordance with the utility’s
standards is allowed.
   (F)   New service piping between the water main and a building shall be run
in a straight or direct line when practicable, without bends and at a depth of
not less than four feet. Pipe with joints shall not be driven. Service pipes
shall not be placed in the same trench with sewers or other piping and shall be
in accordance with state, local and applicable standards, codes, regulations
and ordinances.
   (G)   There shall be no physical connection from a secondary water supply to
any service provided by the utility. Such connection shall be cause for
immediate termination of water service (§
52.10(B)).
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987; Ord. 153, passed 1-10-1997)
§ 52.12  MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES AND METER BOXES.
   (A)   The service connection and fixtures from the water main to and
including the curb stop or service valve will be maintained in good repair at
the expense of the utility against damage, corrosion, tuberculation or other
deterioration. However, if replacement is due to increased demand by the
customer, such replacement shall be at the customer’s expense.
   (B)   The customer shall maintain the service, pipe fixtures and its
appurtenances (meter excepted) from the curb stop or valve into the property
served by the utility, including leaks and other defects promptly.
      (1)   All private service lines or water mains shall be maintained by the
customer or owner, regardless of location, unless the utility has accepted, in
writing, for maintenance by the utility.
      (2)   Should needed repairs to any private service line or water main not
be completed within five days after issue of written notice to the customer,
said customer or owner may be subjected to a daily charge for each day
following the five-day grace period, that the leak or repair is allowed to
continue. The amount of said charge is to be established from time to time by
resolution of the utility.
   (C)   All meter boxes, pits or vaults installed on private property,
regardless whether constructed or installed by the customer or the utility,
shall be maintained in good condition by the customer at their expense.
      (1)   When meter boxes are of an approved frost-proof type and located
within a public right-of-way by the utility, the utility will maintain such
boxes at utility expense.
      (2)   The utility will not maintain piping and appurtenances leading to
and from such meter boxes except the piping between the water main and the curb
stop, as referred to in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.13  THAWING FROZEN PIPES/SERVICES.
   (A)   The thawing of frozen service pipes is the customer’s responsibility,
except for service lines from the water main leading to the curb stop or valve.
   (B)   The thawing of customer service pipes may or may not be performed by
the utility personnel, depending on the circumstances and the amount of
schedules work to be performed by the utility normally.
      (1)   If the utility performs thawing activities, the utility shall first
require a signed agreement from the customer covering the thawing service prior
to the work commencing.
      (2)   Repairs of ruptured lines will be arranged by the customer with a
private plumber and shall be at the expense of the customer.
   (C)   (1)   Upon request by the customer, the utility will make a basic
inspection/investigation of the customer service and advise of the needed
repairs as determined. No excavation of the location will be performed by the
utility on the premises.
      (2)   A service charge may be levied for such investigation service, to
the customer or owner of the location. The amount of said charge is to be
established from time to time by resolution of the utility.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.14  INSIDE PIPING AND SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Each water service applicant shall provide a main supply shut-off
valve to valves, just inside the building foundation wall, along with all
piping and appurtenances, installed and maintained by the applicant. All work
and materials shall be subject to inspection and approval by any authorized
inspector in accordance with the utility general rules and regulations and/or
other regulatory agencies as applicable.
   (B)   Each service connection of five-eighths inch in size shall be fitted
with a compression type stop and waste valve on the inlet side of the meter.
Each water service connection of one inch in size or larger shall be fitted
with a gate or ball type shut-off valve or valves on both the inlet and outlet
sides of the meter.
   (C)   Service lines of larger sizes and/or supplying special equipment may
require special valving and fitting arrangements as specified in §
52.18 and elsewhere.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.15  CROSS-CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW.
   (A)   No cross-connections or conditions which might permit potentially the
backflow of contaminants and/or pollutants from a customer’s piping system into
the public water distribution system shall be permitted.
   (B)   Piping systems within the customer’s premises shall conform to the
latest revision of the “cross- connection regulations” ordinances and rule of
the town’s water utility and governing agencies, which is, by reference made a
part of the general rules and regulations, the same as if printed herein.
   (C)   Installation shall be subject to approval of the utility and any
authorized inspector having jurisdiction over such connection and shall be
maintained in accordance with manufacturers’ specifications and in the total
compliance with applicable rule, regulation and guidelines.
   (D)   This section does not supersede but shall be in addition to any
ordinance by the town governing said matters.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.16  USE OF BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   No booster pump shall be installed, taking its suction or supply from
the utility’s water distribution system, without the expressed written approval
of the utility.
   (B)   In all booster pump installations, the suction of the pump shall be
connected to an atmospheric tank with municipal water flow entering the tank
being controlled by an automatic float valve and discharging freely into the
tank two pipe diameters, or a minimum of six inches, above the positive
overflow level of the tank.
   (C)   As an alternate, suitable control valve limiting suction pressure of
the pump to a minimum 20 psig, may be allowed with prior approval by the
utility in writing. Proper and continuous operation and maintenance shall be
the customer’s responsibility and expense.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.17  ACCESS TO PREMISES, LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   The utility authorized representatives shall have the right to
enter upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose
of inspecting and/or testing cross-connection protective devices, atmospheric
tank installations, booster pump-vacuum breaker-type valves, general plumbing,
as well as meter readings, inspection, repairs, testing, removal, replacement
and relocation in connection with the water service.
      (2)   Failure to provide or allow access for the utility to the customer
premises for the herein state purposes, after written notice of such purpose,
shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
   (B)   Any customer providing a secondary water system supply on the
customer’s premises or available to the premises shall be required to give
reasonable access to the utility representative during any inspection of the
customer premises. Said customer shall be required to provide evidence that no
connection exists between the customer secondary supply and the public water
supply system.
   (C)   (1)   The customer shall comply with all rules and regulations as set
forth by applicable local, state, federal and health agencies as if in writing
herein. (See §
52.11(G).)
      (2)   Failure to comply as stated shall be cause for immediate
termination of water service to the premises with notice of said violation to
the State Board of Health and other agencies having jurisdiction over such
matters. Water service shall not be reinstated until proof of compliance is
furnished to the utility.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.18  METERING.
   (A)   Unless specified in or by contract or tariff on file, all of the water
provided to customer shall be measured by meter(s) of standard manufacture,
furnished and installed by the utility in accordance with the requirements of
the utility in force and effect, and as amended from time to time. The customer
shall provide a suitable location for the placement of the meter, near the
service entrance either in the basement, in an approved meter box or in a
location approved by the utility prior to the water service installation.
   (B)   The utility will designate the minimum size and type meter to be
installed for each customer. Each building to be served from the water main
shall be supplied by at least a three-quarter-inch or one-inch line. For water
services larger than the minimum size, the utility will reserve the right to
designate the number and size of meters that can be supplied for such service
requested.
   (C)   (1)   A “bypass” arrangement around all new meter installations will
be required under any of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The service line on the meter outlet side is one and one-half
inches or larger;
         (b)   The service line, regardless of size, serves refrigeration
equipment or water supplied is used in and for cooling; and
         (c)   The water service must not, for any other reason, be so
interrupted while the meter is being repaired or replaced.
      (2)   The bypass shall be furnished and installed by the customer in
accordance with the utility’s specifications and/or codes, and shall include a
seal. Where existing piping, not containing a bypass, is altered to meet any of
the above conditions, such alteration shall also include a bypass arrangement.
   (D)   (1)   All meters, appliances, equipment and appurtenances furnished by
the utility and which may be on the customer’s premises, shall remain as the
property of the utility, unless otherwise expressly provided herein; the
customer shall protect such property from freezing, loss or damage and shall
not be permitted to remove, tamper or alter such property.
      (2)   The customer shall be responsible and liable for all damages to the
utility’s property while on the premises in the event that such property is
damaged from freezing or hot water and shall pay for cost for repair or
replacement necessary to restore service and required accuracy of the metering.
Upon repeated instances of damaged meters due to negligence of the customer,
the utility can refuse service until the customer can properly protect the
equipment from such damage.
   (E)   Ordinary repairs to meters will be performed by the utility without
expense to the customer.
   (F)   A meter will be tested for accuracy upon request from the customer. A
utility representative will first investigate the premises for other reasons
for excessive water usage before removing the meter for testing.
      (1)   If leaks are found or if the meter test establishes accuracy of the
meter to be between 98% and 102%, the utility may make a service charge of at
least $25 for either service activity. The customer may have a representative
present during the investigation or testing.
      (2)   Such testing and/or investigation will not be performed more than
once in 12 months, unless the customer has abnormally high billings. A report
of the results of the test will be made to the customer and a complete record
of the test will be maintained by the utility.
   (G)   The utility may place seals on any water meter, bypass or related
couplings, in and for any premises, and will replace such seals found to be
broken or removed. The water supply may be turned off if such seals are found
to be broken or removed.
   (H)   Where water is taken through one meter servicing a multi-family
dwelling, the utility required the owner of the real property to maintain the
billing in the owner’s name.
   (I)   New meter applications shall be installed with “remote-read” equipment
as designated by the utility within its ordinances, general rules and
regulations and schedules of installation, in effect.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.19  PRE-WIRING FOR REMOTE WATER READING UNITS.
   (A)   All new dwelling units constructed within the service areas of the
utility shall be pre-wired by the builder with suitable transmission wire as a
part of the construction costs to the unit.
   (B)   When the water service is ordered for the unit, a reasonable fee will
be charged by a representative of the utility, in addition to the costs of the
water service connection, to compensate for materials, labor and/or equipment
to install a water meter remote read unit at the location in the new dwelling
unit.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.20  BASIS FOR MONTHLY BILLING.
   (A)   All water usage charges, other than for unmetered fire service or
other special purposes, will be calculated upon the registration of the meter
or meters installed, which registration shall be prima facie evidence of the
amount of water used.
   (B)   The utility will make an effort to read meters every month or at
intervals as designated by the Town Council. In the event that the utility is
unable to read the meter, or should the meter fail to register, or if the
utility is unable to gain access to the customer’s premises, the customer will
be billed on the basis of average of consumption as shown by the record or
previous meter readings. The first charge after a meter reading is obtained
will then be adjusted by averaging consumption over a period from the last
reading, charging for each period in accordance with the schedule of rates in
effect for the periods and allowing credit for the amount of estimated billings
as applicable to the event.
   (C)   After six consecutive months of estimating, the utility will
automatically boost the consumption to four times the estimated amount. The
customer will continue to be billed at the boosted rate until such time as an
actual read is taken and validated. Any necessary billing adjustments will be
made on the following billing, after the actual read.
   (D)   Where water is taken through more than one meter, and, where such
arrangement is for the convenience of the customer, then, each meter will be
read and billed separately. Where water is taken through more than one meter
for the convenience of the utility, then, the meter readings will be aggregated
and billed as one reading.
   (E)   All water passing through meters will be charged for at the applicable
rates, whether used, wasted or lost through leakage.
   (F)   The utility will not be bound by billings rendered under a mistake of
fact as to the quantity of service rendered.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.21  PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Billings rendered to customers for water service will reflect at least
the following information:
      (1)   The dates at the beginning and ending of the service period, and
the meter reading at the end of the period for which the billing is rendered;
      (2)   The previous balance, if any;
      (3)   The amount of the billing;
      (4)   The date on which the billing is due;
      (5)   If an estimated billing, a clear coding or other indicated
identifying the billing as an estimated bill; and
      (6)   An explanation, which can be readily understood, of all of the
codes and/or symbols on the billing.
   (B)   Billings will be rendered monthly. If a billing is not paid on or
before the due date indicated on the billing (approximately 15 days after the
bill is mailed to the customer), the customer will be considered delinquent. A
period of two consecutive months delinquent will then constitute termination of
water service to the customer by the utility.
   (C)   Failure to receive a billing shall not effect the right of the utility
to cut-off and discontinue service for non-payment as provided above.
   (D)   To qualify for the above consideration, the customer must not be
entered into and have breached a similar, agreement with the utility during the
last 12-month period.
   (E)   At the time of the execution of any agreement, the customer must agree
to pay all future billings as they become due for water service. Failure to
fulfill the terms of the agreement will make the same null and void; and the
total unpaid past due amount, together with any associated service charges
related thereto, will become due. Failure to comply with the conditions of the
agreement will result in the discontinuance of the service without further
notice to the customer.
   (F)   Disputing the accuracy of any billing shall not be a valid reason for
non-payment of the billing by the customer, or abatement of charges.
   (G)   The customer may pay a billing under protest, giving written notice
that redress of the dispute is being sought by the customer. Such written
notice must be filed with the Utility Office Department of the utility, with
payment, prior to the due date of the billing, with no exceptions.
   (H)   The Town Council shall review the written protest as received from the
customer, for disposition of the request. Utility office personnel will not be
in authority to render disposition of the dispute.
   (I)   Failure to make payment on or before the billing due date, pending
settlement of a dispute billing, shall be considered the same as with any other
past due account, regardless of past payment history of the customer.
   (J)   All water charges follow the customer rather than the property; if a
customer moved from the premises where water service has been supplied, such
customer will be held responsible for the payment of all billings rendered for
the service supplied to the premises until proper notice of discontinuance of
water service has been given to the office of the utility.
   (K)   Moving from one location to another location in no way absolves the
customer from any unpaid charges incurred at a previous location.
   (L)   A customer’s service may be discontinued for failure to pay any of the
unpaid charges due from the customer, regardless of the premises with respect
to which the charges were incurred.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.22  ADJUSTMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   If any service meter is found to have a percentage error greater than
that allowed by the Public Service Commission of the state, the following
procedure for the adjustment of billings will be observed.
      (1)   Fast meters. When a meter is found to have a positive average error
(i.e., is fast, in excess of 2%), the utility will refund or credit the
customer’s account with the amount in excess of that determined to be an
average charge for one-half of the time elapsed since the previous test of the
meter, or six months, whichever period is shorter. This average charge will be
calculated on the basis of the units registered on the meter over corresponding
periods either prior or subsequent to the period for which the meter is
determined to be based. No part of a minimum service charge will be refunded.
      (2)   Stopped or slow meters. When a meter is topped or has a negative
average error (i.e., is slow, in excess of 2%), the utility may charge the
customer an amount estimated to be an average charge for one-half of the time
elapsed since the previous meter test or six months, whichever period is
shorter. This average charge shall be calculated on the basis of the units
registered on the meter over the corresponding periods or subsequent to the
period for which the meter is determined to be slow or stopped. Such action may
be taken only in cases where the utility is not at fault for allowing the
stopped or slow meter to remain in service.
   (B)   All billing errors, including incorrect tariff applications, will be
adjusted to the known date of the error or for a period of one year, whichever
is shorter.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.23  COLLECTIONS AND DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE.
   The utility may bring a civil action to recover any delinquent charges
together with applicable interest at the statutory rate, the costs and
disbursements of said actions, and any other remedies prescribed by law.
   (A)   Deferred payment charge. All billings for water services not paid on
or before the due date indicated on the billing shall be subject to a
collection or deferred payment charge as established from time to time by the
utility, and in effect at the time that the charge is posted to the account.
   (B)   Returned check charge. The utility is to receive a return check charge
to be determined from time to time by resolution of the utility for any check
tendered to the utility for payment which is returned by the institution upon
which it is drawn for any reason.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.24  WASTE OR EXCESSIVE USE OF WATER.
   If a customer on a special purpose unmetered rate is found using water in
excess of the contracted for amount, or permits leaks on the premises, or
wastes water by allowing hydrants or faucets to run more or less continuously,
the utility may require the customer to provide a suitable place for the
installation of a water meter and thereafter will supply service in accordance
with said applicable metered tariff.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.25  NOTIFICATION OF LOAD INCREASE.
   The service and meters supplied by the utility have definite capacities; no
substantial addition to the water-consuming equipment or appliances connected
thereto shall be made, except after written notice to a written consent from
the utility.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.26  RESALE OF WATER.
   The water or service furnished under these rules and regulations is for the
use of the customer on the premises. He or she shall not resell any water or
service without the expressed written consent of the utility. Written consent
shall be in the form of a clear contract with the utility.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.27  PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   The entire private fire protection service on a customer’s premises
shall be subject to inspection and testing by the utility at such times as it
is deemed necessary by the utility or other authority having legal interest in
such private systems.
   (B)   Before any modifications are made to any private fire protection
system or before service is furnished to any new private fire protection system
connected to or proposed to be connected to and supplied with water from the
utility’s distribution mains, the owner of the private fire protection system
or the owner’s contract shall provide certification in accordance with §
52.11 to the utility, that the system has been disinfected and final plans of
such fire protection system shall be filed with and approved by the Town
Council or its designated representative and the Fire Department.
   (C)   The following shall be shown on the final plans:
      (1)   The number of sprinkler heads to be served;
      (2)   The sizes and location of the system’s piping;
      (3)   The sizes and locations of all connections to the utility’s
distribution mains;
      (4)   The sizes, locations of all hose connections, reels and/or
cabinets;
      (5)   The sizes and locations of storage tanks connected to the fire
system;
      (6)   The outlet sizes and locations of all fire hydrants; and
      (7)   The sizes, locations and types of all valves.
   (D)   All fire protection lines within buildings must be installed in such
manner that all pipes will be easily accessible for inspection at any time.
Underground pipes outside of buildings must be placed and be maintained at a
minimum depth of four feet.
   (E)   No connection with a fire protection system will be permitted to
supply water for general purposes unless the connection has been approved by
the customer’s fire underwriter and unless the general purpose water is
metered. If such a connection is approved, both the fire protection line and
the general purpose line shall be separately valved outside the building to be
served and proper cross-connection devices provided, all in accordance with the
utility’s specifications, thus permitting either line to be turned on or off
without affecting the other.
   (F)   A private fire protection system without a tank shall be equipped with
an alarm valve and an approved cross-connection backflow prevention device, to
be located on the main service pipe(s) supplying fire protection to the
property. All valving installed as part of the fire system shall protect the
utility’s distribution system from water “hammer” damage.
   (G)   An unmetered private fire service is furnished for the sole purpose of
supplying water for the extinguishment of accidental fires and the use of water
from such a service connection for any other purpose is absolutely forbidden.
   (H)   Hydrants and other fixtures connected to a private fire service
connection may be sealed by the utility, and such seal shall be broken only in
case of fire or as specifically permitted by the utility; the customer must
immediately notify the utility when any such seal is then broken for any
purpose.
   (I)   When a service tap on utility distribution main provides water for
both fire and general purposes to a customer or customers, separate charges
will be made for each purpose to each customer by the utility in accordance
with the established rules and schedule of rates.
   (J)   A private fire service, at the option of the customer and after
approval by customer’s fire underwriter, may be connected to the metered water
service. The monthly charges for such combined fire and general purpose uses
will be as set out in the established schedules rates. Any additional
investment costs incurred by the utility in such metering must be paid by the
customer; maintenance of such meter will be at the water utility’s expense.
   (K)   Whenever a private fire system is to be tested under the regulations
of the fire service underwriters, the customer shall notify the utility of such
proposed testing, naming the day and the hour of the testing, so that the water
utility may have a representative present.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.28  INTERRUPTION OF WATER SERVICE AND THE LIKE.
   The utility shall not be responsible in damages for any failure to supply
water service, for interruption of the supply of water, for defective piping on
the customer’s premises, or for damages resulting to a customer or to third
persons from the use of water or the presence of the utility’s devices on the
customer’s premises, unless due to fault, neglect or culpability on the part of
the utility. Neither party shall be liable to the other for any failure or
delay in case such failure or delay is caused by strikes, the acts of nature,
unavoidable accidents or contingencies beyond its control and is not due to
fault, neglect or culpability on its part.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.29  PERMANENT DISCONNECTIONS.
   In order to reduce the potential of leakage from the utility’s distribution
system, when water service is no longer needed at a given property, the owner
of the property shall, at the owner’s expense, disconnect the service line from
the utility’s distribution main or shall employ the utility to make this
disconnection, for which the owner shall pay the utility a reasonable fee.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.30  WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   The town’s water utility requires a person(s), firm(s) and/or corporation(s)
to pay for the costs of the extension(s) required to adequately serve water for
domestic, commercial and/or fire protection purposes. This policy intends to
place the costs of installation of local water mains upon the owners of the
properties benefitted.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.31  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Beginning with the November 2014 billing cycle, there shall be and
there is hereby established for the availability, use of and/or service
rendered by the waterworks system of the town the following rates and charges:
 
Metered Rates per Month Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 1,000 gallons     $21.05
Next 4,000 gallons      $5.25
Next 5,000 gallons      $4.45
Next 10,000 gallons     $4.30
All over 20,000 gallons $4.25
 
   (B)   Each person whose premises or property is made available and/or served
by the town waterworks shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed for which the user will be
entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of rates.
 
Size of Meter Minimum Charge Per Month Rate
No meter                               $21.05
Up to a 3/4" meter                     $21.05
1" up to 2" meter                      $87.75
2" up to 4" meter                      $175.50
4" up to 6" meter                      $333.50
6" and larger meters                   $614.25
 
Fire Protection Charges                        Rate
Hydrants   6" connection per hydrant per ann$505
Sprinklers     2" line per line per annum  $350
           4" line per line per annum$525
           6" line per line per annum$880
           8" line-per line-per annum$1,275
 
Connection Charges          Rate
Residential churches, halls $307.75
Commercial                  $395
Industrial                  $1,755
 
   (C)   There shall also be and there is hereby established for the
availability, use of, and/or service rendered by the waterworks system of the
town the following hydrant surcharge rates and charges:
Hydrant Surcharge Rate (1) Rate (2) Rate (3)
Hydrant Surcharge    Rate (1) Rate (2) Rate (3)
Up to a 3/4" meter   $2.36    $4.72    $7.08
1" up to 2" meter    $5.90    $11.80   $17.70
2" up to 4" meter    $18.88   $37.36   $56.65
4" up to 6" meter    $37.37   $74.74   $112.11
6" and larger meters $68.83   $137.66  $206.49
(1) Hydrant surcharge effective with the November 2014 billing cycle
(2) Hydrant surcharge effective January 1, 2016
(3) Hydrant surcharge effective January 1, 2017
 
   (D)   All bills not paid within 15 days from the due date thereof, as stated
in such bills, shall be subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of
10% on the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3.
   (E)   A copy of the schedule of rates and charges adopted herein shall be
kept on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer. The rates and charges established for any class of user or property
shall cover any additional property that is subsequently served and falls
within the same class, without any hearing or notice.
(Ord. 251-14, passed 10- -2014)
§ 52.32  PRESENT RULES SUPERSEDE ANY PRIOR RULES
   (A)   All rules and regulations heretofore promulgated by the utility
governing the services provided and supplied by the utility are superseded and
replaced by the foregoing general rules and regulations; provided, however,
this code of rules and regulations does not replace or supersede any ordinance
of the Town Council, or the terms or provisions of any contract or easement
agreement executed in connection with an FmHA financing for said utility.
   (B)   In the event that these rules conflict with the terms and provisions
of any such ordinance, contract or easement agreement, then the following rules
of construction shall apply:
      (1)   The source which grants the greater authority to the utility shall
apply;
      (2)   The source which is the most restrictive insofar as use of the
water system by the consumer shall apply;
      (3)   Any terms or provision which shall be required by the terms of any
FmHA financing, or by the terms of any rule or regulation of the Environmental
Protection Agency, the State Board of Health or the State Department of Natural
Resources shall apply; and
      (4)   The source which grants the greater remedies to the utility for the
collection of sums owed or for requiring connection to the municipal water
system shall apply.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.33  ENFORCEMENT.
   The remedies provided to the utility in these rules and regulations shall
not be exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies which the
utility has at law or in equity.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
§ 52.34  AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   The Town Council may, by appropriate action, amend, modify, delete, change
or otherwise revise the general rules and regulations of the town municipal
water utility as it may deem desirable and/or may deem necessary for the good
of the utility operation for the public supply.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1987)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   GOLF CARTS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Title and enabling provisions
   
70.002   Definitions
   
70.003   Names
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.015   Signs and signals
   
70.016   Specifications
   
70.017   Obedience to
   
70.018   Tampering with
   
70.019   Imitating or interfering with
   
70.020   Officially presumed
General Regulations
   
70.035   Following emergency vehicles
   
70.036   Firefighting equipment
   
70.037   Obstructing traffic
   
70.038   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
70.039   Driving on sidewalk
   
70.040   Backing
   
70.041   No driving on streets closed for repairs
   
70.042   Operation of noisy vehicles unlawful
   
70.043   Use of vehicle horns
   
70.044   Unlawful riding on vehicles
   
70.045   Human and animal propulsion and devices and the like
   
70.046   Operation of human propulsion devices and the like
   
70.047   Snow emergencies
   
70.048   State speed limits
   
70.049   Yield intersections
   
70.050   Signalized intersections
   
70.051   One-way streets and alleys
   
70.052   Restricted turn intersections
   
70.053   Restricted turns on red at signalized intersections
   
70.054   Through on red limited
   
70.055   Engine brakes
   
70.056   Loads dropping or leaking from vehicles
Rules and Enforcement
   
70.070   Police Department
   
70.071   Impoundment of vehicles
   
70.072   Traffic citations
Pedestrians
   
70.085   Crossing streets
   
70.086   Jaywalking
Parking Regulations
   
70.100   Parking prohibited at all times
   
70.101   Alley parking
   
70.102   Obstructions of traffic
   
70.103   Standing vehicles
   
70.104   Parking temporarily
   
70.105   Vehicle to occupy single parking space
   
70.106   Private parking signs
   
70.107   Parallel parking
   
70.108   Angle parking
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001  TITLE AND ENABLING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This title shall be known as the “Town of Orland Traffic Code,” and
shall apply to the entire incorporated area of the town.
   (B)   This title is enacted pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 9-13-2-94, 9-
20-1-3, 9-21-1-1, 9-21-1-2, 9-21-1-3, 9-21-1-4, 9-21-1-5, 36-5-2-9, 36-9-2-7,
as well as any and all other applicable statutes with respect to the control
and regulation of traffic within the municipal limits of the town.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.002  DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases when used in this title shall have their ordinary, usual
and customary meaning except that in case of conflict, the statutory
definitions contained in I.C. 9-13-2, as amended, shall prevail.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.003  NAMES.
   The street, alley and highway names hereafter used in this title shall be as
shown on the recorded plat of the town, now of record in the Recorder’s office
in and for the county, with the exception that plats filed after this date
shall be admissible in evidence where they have been first approved by the Town
Council prior to recordation in said office.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.015  SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The town shall place and maintain official traffic-control devices when and
as required to make effective the provisions of this Traffic Code, and may
place and maintain additional official traffic- control devices as it may deem
necessary to regulate, warn or guide traffic under this Traffic Code or state
motor vehicle laws.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.016  SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the State
Highway Commission’s Manual and Specifications of Traffic-Control Devices and
all signs and signals required hereunder for the particular purpose shall, so
far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the town and
shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.017  OBEDIENCE TO.
   The driver of any motor vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless otherwise directed by a police officer
or subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an authorized motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.018  TAMPERING WITH.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereof, or any
other part thereof.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.019  IMITATING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the town any sign, signal,
marking or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized and erected
by the town, which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an
official traffic-control device in view of any street or highway; and it shall
be unlawful to place or maintain any sign or other article which hides from
view any lawful traffic-control device.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.020  OFFICIALLY PRESUMED.
   When a traffic-control sign, signal, marking or device has been placed, the
presumption shall be that it is official and that it has been lawfully placed
by the proper municipal authority.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.035  FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   No driver of any motor vehicle shall follow any authorized emergency vehicle
apparently traveling in response to an emergency call closer than 500 feet or
drive or park his or her motor vehicle within a radius of one block from the
point where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.036  FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive over any hose lines or other
equipment of the Fire Department, except in obedience to the direction of a
firefighter or police officer.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.037  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the motor vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.038  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall stop the motor vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or
onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yielding the right-of-way
to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all motor vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.039  DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not drive on or across any sidewalk
area, except where there is a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.040  BACKING.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not back his or her motor vehicle unless
the movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with
other traffic.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.041  NO DRIVING ON STREETS CLOSED FOR REPAIRS.
   Except for necessary access to property abutting thereon, no motor vehicle
shall be driven upon any street that is barricaded or closed for repairs or
other lawful purposes.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.042  OPERATION OF NOISY VEHICLES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for a person to drive or operate
a motor vehicle which makes or emits an unusually loud or unnecessary noise,
including, but not limited to, the unnecessary racing of motor, or causing the
screeching or squealing of tires.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.043  USE OF VEHICLE HORNS.
   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and audible signaling
device or horn in efficient working condition. The signaling device shall be
sounded only when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of the motor
vehicle, and it shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to sound
his or her signaling device or horn for any purpose other than as a warning of
impending danger.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.044  UNLAWFUL RIDING ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall ride on any motor vehicle or upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.045  HUMAN AND ANIMAL PROPULSION AND DEVICES AND THE LIKE.
   Every person being propelled by any human propulsion device or riding an
animal upon a roadway and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall
be subject to the provisions of this subchapter applicable to the driver of any
motor vehicle, except those provisions which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.046  OPERATION OF HUMAN PROPULSION DEVICES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person upon roller blades, skates, skateboard, or riding in or by
means of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway
(excluding road worthy sport bicycle equipment and riders). However, it shall
be permissible while crossing a street at an intersection on a crosswalk.
   (B)   When so crossing, the person shall be granted all the rights and shall
be subject to all the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not
apply upon any street while set aside as a play street.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.047  SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In order to keep the public streets open for the flow of traffic, the
Superintendent of Streets shall use snow plows and other equipment as
appropriate to remove the snow from the streets.
   (B)   When snow emergency conditions exist or are anticipated, each person
should remove his or her parked motor vehicle from the street to facilitate
snow removal operations of the Street Department.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Streets is authorized to ban parking in those
areas where it is necessary to remove the snow to the curb to provide for the
movement and safe passage of traffic.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.048  STATE SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   State speed laws applicable. The state motor vehicle laws regulating
the speed of motor vehicles shall be applicable upon the streets within this
town; except as division (B) below, as authorized by the state motor vehicle
laws, hereby declares and determines upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas. In this event, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so
declared by the town when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Increasing or decreasing. It is hereby determined upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that the speed permitted by the state
motor vehicle laws upon the following streets is greater or less than is
necessary for the reasonable or safe operation of motor vehicles thereon and it
is hereby declared that the maximum speed limit shall be as herein designated
when signs are erected giving notice thereof.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.049  YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a motor vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to stop if necessary and shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian legally crossing the street on which he or she is driving and to
any motor vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may
then proceed into the intersection; provided, however, that if the driver is
involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a motor vehicle in
the intersection after driving past a yield sign, the collision shall be deemed
to be prima facie evidence of his or her failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.050  SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS.
   When appropriate traffic-control signals are installed at each intersection,
the operator of a motor vehicle entering the intersections shall obey the
signal displayed as the driver approaches the intersection, except when
directed by a police officer to do otherwise.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.051  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon the designated streets and parts of streets, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.052  RESTRICTED TURN INTERSECTIONS.
   When appropriate signs conforming to the requirements of this Traffic Code
are erected that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a motor
vehicle shall disobey the direction of any sign.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.053  RESTRICTED TURNS ON RED AT SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS.
   When appropriate signs conforming to the requirements of this Traffic Code
are erected that no turn on red may be made at signalized intersections, no
driver of a motor vehicle shall disobey the sign.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.054  THROUGH ON RED LIMITED.
   Vehicular traffic, approaching a signalized intersection whereat traffic
from different directions is alternately directed to stop and proceed, and
whereat the intersecting highway serves traffic only to and from the left, is
prohibited from proceeding at a red signal at the following designated
intersections.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.055  ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate
or cause to be used or operated within the corporate limits of the town, any
engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in
the braking or deceleration of any vehicle for any reason, except in the case
of failure of the service brake system or emergency.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, an ENGINE BRAKE or COMPRESSION BRAKE
is defined as any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed air. These
mechanical exhaust devices are also commonly referred to as dynamic brakes,
transmission brakes or Jake brakes.
   (C)   Upon promulgation according to law, the Town Marshal and/or Town
Street Superintendent, is authorized to post all street signs necessary to
accomplish this section.
(Ord. 05-226, passed 10-11-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.056  LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway,
roadway or other public place within the corporate limits of the town, unless
such vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load
from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that
sand or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction,
or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining such street, highway, roadway or other public place.
      (2)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials, or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle, shall be driven or
moved on any street, highway, roadway or other public place, unless the load is
covered with a sufficient cover to prevent the load or any part of the load
from blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle.
   (B)   No person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity shall
operate any vehicle or equipment in connection with a construction site and/or
a business or commercial enterprise so as to carry onto, deposit in, track or
drop mud, dirt, stones, gravel or other similar material on any street,
highway, roadway or other public place.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the driver and/or owner of a vehicle and/or
the property owner, jointly and severally, who unlawfully drops or deposits
mud, dirt, stones, gravel or other similar material, or permits the load or any
portion thereof to be dropped or deposited upon any street, highway, roadway or
other public, to immediately remove the same or immediately cause it to be
removed.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the waste deposited
by a horse upon any street, highway, roadway or other public place when the
horse is utilized for a horse-drawn vehicle.
(Ord. 238-10, passed 5-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
70.999
RULES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.070  POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Town Marshal, or the deputies as are assigned by
him or her:
      (1)   To enforce the Traffic Code of the town, and the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the town;
      (2)   To enforce all traffic regulations of the town and state vehicle
laws as they apply to any school grounds; and
      (3)   To direct all traffic in person, or by means of visible or audible
signal in conformance with the provisions of the Traffic Code; provided, that
in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, the Town Marshal or the officers as are assigned by him
or her may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
   (B)   The Town Marshal is hereby empowered to make and enforce the traffic
regulations as are necessary to make effective the provisions of this Traffic
Code and to make and enforce temporary regulations to meet emergency traffic
conditions.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.071  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized, when reasonably
necessary to prevent obstruction of traffic, to remove from the streets and
alleys and impound any vehicle whose operator is arrested, or any motor vehicle
which is illegally parked or otherwise parked or stalled so as to constitute an
obstruction or hazard to normal traffic. Such an impounded motor vehicle shall
be stored until the owner claims it, given satisfactory evidence of ownership
and pays all applicable fines, costs, towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 70.072  TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   When a police officer halts a violator other than for the purpose of giving
a warning, and does not take the person into custody under arrest, the police
officer may issue to him or her a written ordinance citation containing a
notice to answer to the charge against him or her in the appropriate authority
by a specific time. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the
alleged violator to answer as specified in the citation, shall forward it in a
timely manner through the appropriate channels.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.085  CROSSING STREETS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections
where the signals are operating. When traffic-control signals are not operative
or in place, the driver of a motor vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians crossing the roadway within the crosswalk. No pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a motor vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield
the right-of-way.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.086  JAYWALKING.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within the
crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all motor vehicles
upon the roadway.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.100  PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park, a motor vehicle at any time for any
purpose in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer,
traffic-control sign or signal:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On any grassy area between a curb and sidewalk;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 25 feet from the intersection of curb lines;
   (E)   Within 30 feet upon the approach of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
   (F)   Within 20 feet, of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
   (G)   Within 15 feet of any fire hydrant;
   (H)   In front of any public or private driveway;
   (I)   On a sidewalk;
   (J)   Alongside of or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   Alongside any curb painted yellow or red by the town;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any parked motor vehicle, commonly known as
“double parking;” and
   (M)   Upon any bridge or under any elevated structure.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.101  ALLEY PARKING.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle in any alley except for a period not
exceeding 30 minutes while loading or unloading the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.102  OBSTRUCTIONS OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle upon a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions so as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway of the street or alley free for the movement of
vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle within
an alley or street in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any
abutting property.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.103  STANDING VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key, or when standing upon any perceptible grade, without effectively
setting the brakes thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of
the roadway.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.104  PARKING TEMPORARILY.
   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to erect or cause to be erected,
temporary signs indicating no parking upon any street when the parking would
interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation. When the signs are
erected indicating “No Parking” upon any street, no person shall park a motor
vehicle in any such designated area.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.105  VEHICLE TO OCCUPY SINGLE PARKING SPACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in any
designated parking space so that any part of the motor vehicle occupies more
than one space or protrudes beyond the official marking on the street or curb
designating the space.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.106  PRIVATE PARKING SIGNS.
   No person shall place any sign along or on any street or alley or designated
any place thereon with the intent to regulate or prevent the parking of motor
vehicles on any street or alley, and the Town Marshal shall cause the signs to
be removed.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.107  PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except where angle parking is permitted, a motor vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway shall be stopped or parked with the curb side wheels of the
motor vehicle parallel with and within 12 Inches of the curb or edge of the
roadway.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.108  ANGLE PARKING.
   Motor vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb, as marked on the
roadway on the following designated streets. It shall be unlawful for any
person to angle park any motor vehicle which has a trailer attached to it or
any motor vehicle which protrudes beyond marking.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this title, and
any person who aids, abets or assists therein shall, upon conviction thereof,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500, plus additional penalties to include
reasonable attorney fees and court costs incurred by the town for collection of
the account, as determined by any other ordinance of the town referencing this
title or as determined by the Fremont Town Court or other court of jurisdiction
in any court proceeding. The schedule of penalties for violations, as adopted
by the Fremont Town Court from time to time, is incorporated herein in its
entirety.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
70.055 shall be fined not less than $100 for the first offense; not less than
$150 for the second offense; and not less than $200 for the third or subsequent
offenses.
   (C)   It is an infraction for any person to violate any provision of §
70.056. Any individual who shall violate the provisions of §
70.056, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$200 and not more than $2,500.
(Ord. 05-226, passed 10-11-2005; Ord. 238-10, passed 5-10-2010; Ord. 245,
passed 9-9-2013)
CHAPTER 71:  GOLF CARTS
Section
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Operation
   
71.03   Age restriction
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  DEFINITION.
   GOLF CART, as used in this chapter, is defined as a four-wheeled motor
vehicle originally and specifically designed and intended to transport one or
more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on
a golf course.
(Ord. 233-09, passed 7-13-2009
§ 71.02  OPERATION.
   (A)   A person may operate, drive or park (“operate”) a golf cart on the
streets, alleys and properties under the jurisdiction of the town subject to
the rules and restrictions set forth herein.
   (B)   Operators of golf carts must have a valid driver’s license and shall
obey all state, federal and local laws, regulations and ordinances governing
passenger motor vehicles, including, but not limited to, laws, regulations and
ordinances pertaining to licensing of operators, and traffic regulation.
   (C)   Golf carts operated during darkness from dusk to dawn, or during
inclement weather, when headlamps are necessary for motor vehicles, must be
equipped with and use headlights and taillights visible from a distance of not
less than 500 feet. A red flashing light may also be used facing to the rear of
the golf cart.
   (D)   Golf carts shall be driven as close to the right edge of the street or
alley as possible.
   (E)   No person shall operate a golf cart on a sidewalk.
   (F)   No person shall operate a golf cart on the walking track at the town
park.
   (G)   No person shall operate or permit the operation of a golf cart without
proof of financial responsibility.
   (H)   No person shall operate a golf cart unless any and all passengers of
said golf cart are seated in a seat attached to the golf cart as manufactured.
In no event shall a person operate a golf cart with more than four total
passengers.
   (I)   No person shall operate a golf cart unless said golf cart is equipped
with and displays a triangular slow moving vehicle emblem that is entirely
visible from the rear of the golf cart at all times.
   (J)   No person shall operate a golf cart unless said golf cart is equipped
with and displays an orange triangular flag flying from the driver’s side above
the upper most portion of the golf cart.
   (K)   No person shall operate a golf cart unless said golf cart is equipped
with a rear view mirror permanently mounted to the golf cart.
   (L)   No person shall operate a golf cart so that it impedes or blocks the
normal flow of traffic.
(Ord. 233-09, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  AGE RESTRICTION.
   No passenger shall be permitted to ride on a golf cart on the streets,
alleys and properties under the jurisdiction of the town under the age of 12
years old without being restrained by a seatbelt and any other safety devices
necessary to prevent injury to the passenger.
(Ord. 233-09, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, or permits a violation of any
provisions of this chapter shall pay a minimum fine of $25 and a maximum fine
of $50. Money collected for fines shall be deposited in the General Fund.
(Ord. 233-09, passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck traffic
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Multiple stop intersections
SCHEDULE I.  TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Truck defined. For the purpose of this schedule, a TRUCK is any motor
vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of
property, and which has three or more axles, or licensed to carry a combined
body and weight exceeding 26,000 pounds.
   (B)   Designation of truck routes. The following streets are designated as
truck routes upon which trucks can travel without restrictions and shall be
clearly posted with signs at reasonable intervals, consisting of the words
“truck route.”
 
Street          From           To
Maple Street    State Road 327 State Road 120
Market Street   State Road 120 Railroad Street
Railroad Street State Road 327 Market Street
Vermont Street  Market Street  Church Street
 
   (C)   Use of town streets by trucks. Except as provided in divisions (C)(1)
and (C)(3) below, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to travel
upon any street which is not a truck route within the town.
      (1)   The operation of a truck is permitted on local streets for pick-up,
delivery or service only if the truck has a point of origin or a destination
within the town which is not on a truck route. The operator of the truck with a
point of origin within the town may travel by local streets using the
physically shortest distance between the point of origin and a truck route. The
operator of the truck with a point of destination within the town may travel by
local streets using the physically shortest distance between truck route and
the point of destination.
      (2)   The operator of any truck subject to this schedule and that travels
on a local street shall produce evidence if stopped by a law enforcement
officer while driving on a town street which is not a truck route that it has a
proper place of origin or destination within the town. In the event the
operator of the truck cannot produce such document, then a citation for
violating this division (C) shall be issued.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this schedule, the operator
of a truck may operate said truck upon any detour officially established as a
substitute for those streets identified as truck routes herein; or, by
direction of any law enforcement officer; or pursuant to any special temporary
emergency use permit issued by the Controller’s office.
   (D)   Exceptions. The provisions of this schedule do not apply to trucks:
      (1)   Owned or operated by the town;
      (2)   Engaged in picking up solid waste with the town; or
      (3)   Used as an ambulance, fire truck, school bus or in a law
enforcement capacity by any governmental agency or governmental unit.
   (E)   Authority to weigh commercial vehicles. The Town Marshal shall have
the authority to require any person driving or in control of any commercial
vehicle, whether or not proceeding over a truck route, to proceed to any public
or private scale available for the purpose of weighing said vehicle and
determining compliance with this division (E).
   (F)   Penalty. For weight violations, a fine of $0.01 per pound for each
overweight pound may be imposed in lieu of the fine herein provided.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
SCHEDULE II.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are designated as stop intersections. When stop
signs are erected at the entrance to the intersections, the operator of a motor
vehicle approaching any of the streets where a stop sign has been erected shall
bring the motor vehicle to a full and complete stop before entering the
intersection, except when directed by a police officer to do otherwise.
 
Traffic On     Shall Stop for Traffic On
Center Street  Railroad Street
Center Street  Vermont Street
Church Street  State Road 120
Church Street  Vermont Street
Parker Street  Center Street
Vermont Street Market Street
 
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013)
SCHEDULE III.  MULTIPLE STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are designated as multi-stop intersections
which may be a four-way stop, a three-way stop or an all-way stop.
   (B)   When appropriate signs conforming to the requirements of this Traffic
Code are erected at the entrance to the intersections, the operator of a motor
vehicle entering any of the streets shall bring the motor vehicle to a full and
complete stop before entering the intersection, except when directed by a
police officer to do otherwise.
 
Streets                          Kind of Stop
Center Street and Vermont Street 3-way stop
 
(Ord. 245, passed 9-9-2013; Ord. 2017-014, passed 12-11-2017)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I.  HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   There shall be reserved parking spaces designated and posted for
handicapped parking.
   (B)   A parking space reserved for handicapped use is located north of the
intersection of State Road 120 and State Road 327. This space is the first
parking space on the east side of State Road 120, adjacent to the Joyce Public
Library.
   (C)   A parking space reserved for handicapped use is located within the
Town Park, on the west side of the handicapped accessible pavilion.
   (D)   Any person who parks a motor vehicle in the above spaces must conform
to the directives contained in I.C. 5-16-9-5.
   (E)   Penalties and violations of this ordinance shall be as set forth in
I.C. 5-16-9-5 thereof are hereby enacted by reference as if fully set out
herein.
(Ord. 186, passed 12-9-1999)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   FIREWORKS AND FIRE PROTECTION; BURNING
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Restraint; running at large
   
90.03   Dangerous animals
   
90.04   Harboring a nuisance animal
   
90.05   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any living, nonhuman vertebrate creature.
   AT LARGE.  An animal that is off the premises of the owner, and not under
restraint by its owner.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  Any animal which:
      (1)   Has seriously injured a human, domestic animal or farm animal;
      (2)   Has without provocation attacked, bitten, pursued or attempted to
attack, bite or pursue a human, whether on or off the property of its owner or
the owner’s agent;
      (3)   Has attacked or bitten a domestic animal, or farm animal while on
or off the property of its owner or the owner’s agent;
      (4)   Has been found to be at large and has been documented to be at
large by an animal control officer on three or more separate occasions; or
      (5)   Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting
physical harm or death to humans, as determined by the Town Police Department.
   HARBOR.  The permitting of an animal to remain, to be lodged or to be fed
within one’s home, store, enclosure, yard or place of business or any premises
on which such person resides or controls. An animal shall be presumed HARBORED
if it is fed or sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   IMPOUND.  The taking into custody of an animal by any police officer, animal
control officer or any authorized representative of the town.
   OWNER.  The owner of an animal, including a person who possesses, keeps or
harbors an animal.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE or SECURELY ENCLOSED.  Any enclosed building or lighted,
ventilated and sanitary outdoor pen that:
      (1)   Is roofed or that has sides at least four feet tall;
      (2)   Is constructed in such a manner that the type of animal contained
within the pen cannot reasonably be expected to escape; and
      (3)   Does not obstruct access to metering devices provided to the
public.
   UNDER RESTRAINT.  The animal is secured by a leash not exceeding six feet in
length, and under the control of a person physically capable of restraining the
animal and obedient to that person’s commands.
(Ord. 242-12, passed - -2012)
§ 90.02  RESTRAINT; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   All animals shall be kept under restraint by the animal’s owner while off
the premises of the owner. No animal shall be allowed by its owner to run at
large within the jurisdictional boundaries of the town, and it shall be deemed
a violation of this chapter by each owner of an animal that is found to be
running at large in the town.
(Ord. 242-12, passed - -2012)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The owner of a dangerous animal shall keep the dangerous animal confined at
all times in a secure enclosure while on the owner’s premises. No person shall
permit a dangerous animal outside of its secure enclosure unless it is under
restraint of its owner. The owner shall display in a conspicuous manner, a sign
on his or her premises warning that there is a dangerous animal on the
premises. This sign shall be visible and legible from the street. While off
such premises, the owner shall keep the animal under restraint, or in a locked
pen or other locked enclosure (i.e., car or truck) and station a person of
suitable age and discretion with the animal in close enough proximity to
prevent it from causing injury.
(Ord. 242-12, passed - -2012)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  HARBORING A NUISANCE ANIMAL.
   An owner who harbors an animal within the limits of the town shall be guilty
of creating and maintaining a nuisance if the animal:
   (A)   Barks, whines or otherwise makes noise audible beyond the boundaries
of the property harboring the animal and which noise persists or continues
after notice by representatives of the town;
   (B)   Molests or disturbs pedestrians or passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacks other animals;
   (D)   Damages public property or private property not owned by the person so
harboring the animal;
   (E)   Habitually defecates on property owned by someone other than the
person harboring the animal;
   (F)   Habitually eats or destroys the plants, shrubs or similar landscaping
on property owned by someone other than the owner of the animal; and/or
   (G)   Fails to confine a dangerous animal to the owner’s property within a
secure enclosure.
(Ord. 242-12, passed - -2012)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   The town, through its authorized agent or the Town Police Department, may
take any and all necessary actions for enforcing this chapter, including, but
not limited to, issuing a notice of violation to the owner of the animal,
impounding the animal, and destroying the animal. Destruction of the animal
shall be in compliance with any applicable regulations of the impounding animal
shelter holding the animal. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent an authorized
agent of the town or officer of the Town Police Department from destroying the
animal in the event said animal, when not under unjustified provocation, is
causing an eminent danger of attack, bite, injury or death to a person or
property.
(Ord. 242-12, passed - -2012)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall pay a civil
penalty. Payment of $50 will be imposed for the first violation, $100 for the
second violation within one year of the first violation and $200 for the third
and subsequent violations within one year of the immediately previous
violation. The owner will also be liable for any and all costs incurred by the
town in the process of impoundment and destruction of the animal. As determined
by the court, the owner shall be liable for any damage or injuries caused by
the animal, unless such damage or injury was to the body or property of a
person who, at the time such damage or injuries were sustained, was committing
a trespass on the owner’s property, or was teasing or abusing such animal on
the owner’s property.
(Ord. 242-12, passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 91:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Authority to operate
   
91.02   Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Park
   
91.03   Department of Parks and Recreation
Rules and Regulations
   
91.15   Enforcement
   
91.16   Hours open to public; entrances and exits
   
91.17   Riding or driving
   
91.18   Authority of Park Board to designate kind of vehicle and maximum
weights allowed in parks
   
91.19   Firearms, fireworks prohibited, parks to be considered game preserve
   
91.20   Animals; dogs on leash
   
91.21   Assemblies allowed only with Park Board approval
   
91.22   Reserving park facilities; permits
   
91.23   Disorderly conduct prohibited
   
91.24   Model airplanes and boats
   
91.25   Ball playing or active games
   
91.26   Golf
   
91.27   Open fires prohibited; exceptions; permits
   
91.28   Hours when lights to be turned out; exceptions
   
91.29   Illegal to move benches, picnic tables or fixtures
   
91.30   Throwing of stones or rubbish on park property
   
91.31   Injuring or defacing park property; care and maintenance by users
   
91.32   Bringing, selling or consuming intoxicants or controlled drugs or
substances
   
91.33   Owner responsible for personal property
   
91.34   Speed limits in public parks
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
   The town may establish, aid, maintain and operate public parks, playgrounds
and recreation facilities and programs.
(1985 Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 91.02  SOLDIERS AND SAILORS MEMORIAL PARK.
   The Soldier and Sailors Memorial Park, in the town, situated on Lot 36, in
Original Plat Addition to the town, shall not, and cannot be used for any
purpose other than memorial services.
(1985 Code, § 5-2-1)  (Ord. 12, passed 6-2-1947)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The Department of Parks and Recreation established therein shall have
no further authority to perform any act which binds the town nor any powers to
establish, maintain, manage or operate any public park of the town.
   (B)   The Town Council shall hereafter have all authority to establish,
maintain, manage and operate all public parks of the town.
   (C)   No part of this section shall be interpreted to conflict with federal,
state or local laws, and all reasonable efforts should be made to harmonize the
same. Should any section or part thereof of this section be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of this section as a whole, or any portion thereof other than that
portion so declared to be invalid, and for this purpose the provisions of this
section are hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 228-06, passed - -2006)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 91.15  ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers and employees of the Town Parks Department
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 91.16  HOURS OPEN TO PUBLIC; ENTRANCES AND EXISTS.
   The park shall be open to the public from dawn to dusk and after dusk only
with the permission of the Town Park Board. The playgrounds shall be open from
dawn to dusk. No person, other than employees of the Parks Department or law
enforcement officers, shall be permitted to remain in the public park except
when open as herein specified, and no person at any time shall enter or leave
the park except by established entrances, exists, walks or drives.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  RIDING OR DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle of any nature
or size on the walk/run track or on any path designed for foot or bicycle
traffic, except park employees and law enforcement officers. Vehicle parking is
permitted only in the designed areas, and not on the grass. Vehicles are not
permitted on playgrounds or picnic areas. Parking of vehicles, other than law
enforcement officers or park employees, in the park between dusk and dawn shall
be prohibited, except upon permission of the town’s Park Board. Horseback
riders are prohibited from riding in the park. The term MOTOR VEHICLE shall
have the meaning as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-105 and shall include, but not be
limited to, a “motor scooter,” “motorcycle” and “motorized bicycle” as those
terms are defined by I.C. 9-13-2 et seq., as well as all automobiles,
snowmobiles and off-road vehicles.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  AUTHORITY OF PARK BOARD TO DESIGNATE KIND OF VEHICLE AND MAXIMUM
WEIGHTS ALLOWED IN PARKS.
   The Town Council is hereby granted authority to designate by order recorded
in its minutes, the kind of conveyance and vehicles and loads thereon that may
not be used or hauled in the public park, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to use any vehicle or conveyance contrary to the provisions of such
order of the Park Board.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19  FIREARMS, FIREWORKS PROHIBITED, PARKS TO BE CONSIDERED GAME PRESERVE.
   No person, except law enforcement officers or park employees, shall be
allowed to carry firearms. No person shall shoot or throw stones at, set traps
or harness any wildlife, animals, birds and fish within the limits of any park.
All park lands shall be wild game preserves. Fireworks, firearms, “B-B” guns,
sling shots, peashooters, archery devices and water pistols are prohibited in
all park areas, unless permission has been obtained from the Park Board.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20  ANIMALS; DOGS ON LEASH.
   (A)   Dogs allowed only on leash with exception. Dogs (except police dogs)
are not allowed in the public park except on leash. The owner must pick up
after his or her or their dog. No dog of the age that requires immunizations
shall be brought into the park unless the immunizations required of the dog by
law, have been received by the dog and so indicated by tags attached to the
collar of said dog.
   (B)   All pets and animals prohibited upon notice. All pets and other
domestic animals (except service animals such as police dogs and horses) are
not allowed in the park during any time said prohibition is publically posted
by the Park Board at the main entrance of the park. During the times posted,
only pets and animals receiving previous written permission from the Park
Board, or dogs assisting the legally blind owner of said dog, shall be allowed
in the public park.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002; Ord. 05-224, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21  ASSEMBLIES ALLOWED ONLY WITH PARK BOARD APPROVAL.
   No gathering or meeting of any kind assembled through advertising shall be
permitted in any park without previous permission having been obtained from the
Park Board. No concerts will be permitted in the park without having obtained
previous permission from the Park Board.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  RESERVING PARK FACILITIES; PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits are issued and a fee charged for park pavilions at the office
of the Park Board.
   (B)   Reservations may be made for the pavilions the first working day after
January 1 of each year, or any time thereafter, so long as the pavilion
requested to be reserved is available.
   (C)   Ball diamonds and soccer fields are to be used only by those teams or
leagues having permits issued at the office of the Park Board, or as part of
the playground schedule.
   (D)   The person or organization to whom a permit or reservation is issued
is responsible for any damage to the buildings, equipment, fixtures or grounds.
   (E)   The Park Board reserves the right to limit, make conditional,
withdraw, refuse to issue or cancel any permit issued for any reason determined
necessary by the Park Board to manage and protect the parks and public grounds
of the town or as a result of past or present violations of this section by any
person, team or league.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002; Ord. 04-219, passed 9-13-2004)  Penalty, see
§
91.99
§ 91.23  DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   Disorderly conduct, vulgar, obscene and profane language is prohibited.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24  MODEL AIRPLANES AND BOATS.
   (A)   Model airplanes with motors are required to be flown only at
designated areas at the discretion of the Park Board.
   (B)   Model boats with motors or engines are to be sailed only at designated
areas at the discretion of the Park Board. Except for small model boats, boats
with inboard or outboard motors are prohibited on any water contained in the
parks.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25  BALL PLAYING OR ACTIVE GAMES.
   No ball playing or other active games are permitted on park strips or
esplanades, except the areas so designated for this purpose.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26  GOLF.
   Practicing of golf is not allowed in parks and playgrounds, except at the
established practice area or at any time when other persons are present in the
designated area.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27  OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS.
   Open fires, except in fireplaces or charcoal pits and ovens, shall not be
permitted in any park. Fire permits may be issued by the Park Board for certain
designated areas. Portable charcoal grills and ovens shall not be permitted to
be used inside pavilions or under roofs thereof. Persons using charcoal pits or
ovens shall be responsible for disposing of their own coals and must have their
own container.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28  HOURS WHEN LIGHTS TO BE TURNED OUT; EXCEPTIONS.
   Ball diamond and sport court lights must be turned out at 11:00 p.m., except
by special exception permission granted by the Park Board.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29  ILLEGAL TO MOVE BENCHES, PICNIC TABLES OR FIXTURES.
   No benches, picnic tables or fixtures shall at any time be removed or
changed from their place in the parks without permission to do so having been
obtained from the person in charge of the parks.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30  THROWING OF STONES OR RUBBISH ON PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw stones, rubbish or other articles into any waters or
into the park areas.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  INJURING OR DEFACING PARK PROPERTY; CARE AND MAINTENANCE BY USERS.
   (A)   No person shall cut, break or pluck flowers or in any way injure or
deface the trees, shrubs, plants or turf of any of the buildings, fences,
benches, structures, fixtures or statuary within the public park or boulevard
strip.
   (B)   If it is necessary to slightly disturb the surface of the ground when
erecting stands, care must be taken to fill all holes after the stands are
removed.
   (C)   Ice or ice water containing salt must not be emptied on the park
grounds.
   (D)   The park grounds must be cleaned up after using and put in as good
condition as before using.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32  BRINGING, SELLING OR CONSUMING INTOXICANTS OR CONTROLLED DRUGS OR
SUBSTANCES.
   No alcohol, intoxicants or controlled drugs, unless prescribed by a
physician, of any kind, shall be brought into the park area, consumed, sold or
given away on the premises of the public park.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33  OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Personal property or equipment brought into the park shall be at the owner’s
risk.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34  SPEED LIMITS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   A speed limit of ten mph is hereby established on all streets, roads and
drives of the town parks system; provided however, that at or near hazardous or
congested locations, speed limit of less than that specified in this section
may be established, and/or speed devices installed, when deemed necessary at
the discretion of the Park Board.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
91.15 through
91.34 shall, upon conviction of the party so offending, subject the offender to
a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $2,500.
(Ord. 2002-212, passed 8-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
92.01   What constitutes a public nuisance
   
92.02   Permission to enter
   
92.03   Notification
   
92.04   Citation
   
92.05   Cost of abatement; lien
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.20   Definition
   
92.21   Tag
   
92.22   Enforcement
   
92.23   Report; disposal of vehicle
   
92.24   Towing
   
92.25   Removal
   
92.26   Liability
   
92.27   Exceptions
   
92.28   Fund
   
92.29   Time
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.01  WHAT CONSTITUTES A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
the state as a public nuisance may, when found to exist within the town limits,
be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this subchapter, or
in accordance with any other provisions of law. Whenever the word NUISANCE is
used in this subchapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant or any other person having a substantial
interest in any real or personal property within the town, or agent thereof,
shall permit or allow to remain on or within the property or upon public ways
abutting the real property any materials, trash, garbage, debris or any other
matter which is detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety or the
aesthetic well-being of the town.
   (C)   The following conditions shall be considered to constitute public
nuisances for the purpose of this subchapter:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Grass over eight inches high;
      (3)   Fallen trees, stumps or dead trees;
      (4)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items and tires;
      (5)   Demolition remains;
      (6)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property with the
town, including open foundations;
      (7)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
      (8)   Structure defaced with paint or wording;
      (9)   Any portion of real property which emits an unwholesome odor;
      (10)   Any waste water, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste or
human excrement which is deposited, allowed or caused to be upon any public or
private property;
      (11)   Any water or other substance which is caused or permitted to flow
on to or be deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural
surface water drainage;
      (12)   Any dead domestic or wild animal;
      (13)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon
any public property;
      (14)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
      (15)   The placing or accumulation on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, domestic animals or wild animals in such a manner as
to create a health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (16)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous or
detrimental to life or health due to the lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heating, plumbing or ventilation;
      (17)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure or dwelling that
is so out of repair that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch on fire
or communicate fire to surrounding properties;
      (18)   Any noxious odors, smoke, dust or noise that emits from the
premises into the surrounding atmosphere which creates an uncomfortable
condition to surrounding properties;
      (19)   The storage of explosive, combustible or other inflammable
material which creates a safety or health risk;
      (20)   Any trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, fences or other material which
obstruct public ways or cause a visual barrier for vehicular traffic;
      (21)   Any junk automobiles, broken concrete, scrap metals or automobile
parts including, but not limited to, iron, steel, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum
or alloy; and
      (22)   Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation, including,
but not limited to, ragweed, goldenrod, milkweed, Canadian thistle, dandelions,
plantain and other broadleaf weeds, buckthorn, poison ivy, poison sumac and
burdock, which is either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown or removed;
         (b)   Has attained a height of eight inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or immediately detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare.
(Ord. 2001-201, passed 5-14-2001)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  PERMISSION TO ENTER.
   It shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report the
existence of nuisances to the Town Council. For this purpose, the Town Marshal
or other employees designated by the Town Council shall be permitted to visit,
enter into or upon any building, lots, grounds or premises within the limits of
the town to ascertain and discover any nuisance kid to make examination
thereof.
(Ord. 2001-201, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 92.03  NOTIFICATION.
   When a public nuisance is found to exist, the Town Marshal or other
employees designated by the Town Council shall notify the property owner or
persons known to have a substantial interest in the property to abate the
conditions which are deemed to be a public nuisance under this subchapter.
Notification to abate shall be issued according to applicable law. Notification
shall state the nature of the nuisances, the penalty for neglect or refusal to
abate the nuisance, and the period of time allowed to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 2001-201, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 92.04  CITATION.
   Whenever the Town Marshal or other employees designated by the Town Council,
after the expiration of the notice specified in §
92.03, determines that the record property owner, or persons with substantial
interest in the property, has failed to abate, the Town Marshal or other
employees designated by the Town Council may cause to be issued a citation
against the record property owner or persons known to have substantial interest
in the property. Each subsequent day of violation shall be considered a
separate violation.
(Ord. 2001-201, passed 5-14-2001)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  COST OF ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any party to comply with the notice to
abate given under §
92.03, or whenever a nuisance exists which creates a safety or health hazard
requiring immediate abatement in order to protect public safety or health, and
after all persons known to have a substantial interest in the property where
the nuisance exists have been given a reasonable opportunity to bring the
property into compliance and have not done so, the town may abate the nuisance
and bill the cost of abatement to the record property owner or to persons shown
to have the exclusive possession of the property. Unpaid costs may be made a
lien against the property.
(Ord. 2001-201, passed 5-14-2001)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.20  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Defined as:
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this subchapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by
the owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
         (g)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is
mechanically inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a
location visible from public property for more than 20 days.
      (2)   The storage of any vehicle which shall not have attached to it a
current and valid license plate shall be held prima facie to be an abandoned
vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.21  TAG.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within the 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts including information on the condition, missing parts and
other facts that might substantiate that the market value is less than $100.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.22  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $100, the officer shall immediately dispose of
the vehicle or parts to an automobile scrapyard. A copy of the abandoned
vehicle report and photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be
forwarded to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The Police Department shall retain
the original records and photographs for at least two years.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.23  REPORT; DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area, the officer shall prepare and forward to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles an
abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle including the
make, model, engine number, if any, identification number, and the number of
the license plate, and request that the Bureau of Motor Vehicles advise the
officer of the name and most recent mailing address of the owner and any lien
holder.
   (B)   The Bureau of Motor Vehicles or the town shall dispose of the vehicle
in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.24  TOWING.
   (A)   The maximum amount that an authorized towing service may charge for
towing or removing a vehicle under this chapter shall not exceed $50, except
where special treatment may be required.
   (B)   The service may charge the towing fee after hook-up if the owner/
operator wishes to retrieve the vehicle.
   (C)   The maximum amount that may be charged for storage shall not exceed
$10 per day.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.25  REMOVAL.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts or vehicles
declared public nuisances, the town may enter into towing contracts or
agreements for the removal and storage of abandoned vehicles and parts.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.26  LIABILITY.
   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed nor the town or its officers, authorized
towing service, or automobile scrapyard is liable for loss or damage to the
vehicle or parts occurring during its removal, storage or disposition.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.27  EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately-owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
storage or impound yard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34-4 as a historic
vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.28  FUND.
   There is hereby created the Abandoned Vehicle Fund, which shall be a
revolving fund, and all monies paid to the town for the cost of removal,
storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles shall be placed in said fund and in
no other place. Said fund shall also have added to it such monies as may be
appropriated by the Town Council. The costs of removal and storage of an
abandoned vehicle or parts not claimed by the owner or lien holder shall be
paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund. The proceeds of sale of an abandoned
vehicle or parts shall be credited against all costs and incidents to the
removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle. All monies remaining in said fund
at the end of each year shall remain in such fund and not revert to the General
Fund. The monies in said fund shall be expended and used only for the purposes
enumerated in I.C. 9-22-1 et seq. providing for the disposal of abandoned
vehicles.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.29  TIME.
   In computing any period of time prescribed in this subchapter, the day of
the act, event or tagging, or mailing from which the designated period of time
begins to run shall not be included. Such time shall begin to run on the next
succeeding day and shall conclude on 12:00 midnight of the last day of the
period that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
(Ord. 2000-198, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of §§
92.01 through
92.05 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an offense and fined not less
than $25 for a first offense, not less than $100 for a second offense within
the same calendar year, and not less than $200 for all subsequent offenses
within the same calendar year, but no fine shall exceed $2,500. Each day after
the expiration date of the time limit ordered by the Town Marshal for abating a
nuisance condition under §§
92.01 through
92.05 shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 2001-201, passed 5-14-2001)
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention or intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Exemptions
   
93.10   Administrative enforcement of chapter
   
93.11   Limitation of liability
§ 93.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitation,
for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for under the
federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as amended,
the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§
5301 et seq. as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON.  Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION.  The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT.  A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.  An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04,
93.05,
93.06,
93.07 or
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is:
      (1)   Pregnant;
      (2)   Domiciled with an individual under 18 years of age in regard to
whom the person is:
         (a)   The parent or legal custodian; or
         (b)    Has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian for
the domicile with that person; or
      (3)   Is in the process of obtaining legal custody of an individual
younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY.  An individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9) or individuals having familial
status as that term is defined in this section.
   HANDICAP.  With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and any other impairment defined under
I.C. 22-9.5-2-2; and
      (5)   The provisions of this section notwithstanding, the term HANDICAP
does not include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance
as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual
solely because that individual is a transvestite.
   PERSON.  Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, 
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title
11, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT.  Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-2-2, 22-9.5-2-8, 22-9.5-2-9, 22-9.5-2-11
§ 93.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
93.04 apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in section is
to apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
only applies to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesperson; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 93.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03, and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the moving of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terras, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin; or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental the landlord may
where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted; and
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
      (3)   Nothing in this section requires a dwelling to be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
      (4)   Nothing in this section requires, with respect to a rental property
or property sold on an instalment basis, a landlord or contract seller to allow
modifications to a dwelling which will irreparably destroy the original design
of a home which was built over 50 years previously or which was custom built
for the owner as a residence; nor shall it require a landlord or contract
seller to allow modifications which would substantially reduce the value of
said property where the landlord or contract seller has reasonable doubt as to
the financial capability of the renter or buyer to restore the dwelling to its
original state upon termination of the lease or default upon the contract by
the buyer.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or nation origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance;
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
   It is unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It is unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any person
in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise of, any right granted or protected by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08  PREVENTION OR INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or is or has participated lawfully in speech or peaceful
assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an ordinance violation and the town, or any party aggrieved by said violation
shall be entitled to seek and received injunctive relief to require cessation
of any such violations, or future violations.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is to prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin, nor does anything in the chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental and occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this subchapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 93.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter is
vested in the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative enforcement of
actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Clerk-Treasurer of said town is the
designated person to receive any complaints brought to the attention of the
town and is responsible for forwarding all formal complaints of violations of
the provisions of this chapter to the Commission.
   (B)   All departments, officers and agencies of the town shall carry out
their administrative duties pertaining to the departments, programs and
activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner consistent
with the purposes of this chapter and are to cooperate with the officers
involved with the administration thereof and the Commission to further such
purposes.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall provide information available to
any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information as may be
provided to the town from time to time, along with a copy of the provisions of
this chapter if so requested, along with the address of the Commission.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 93.11  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter is to be construed as imposing upon the town or any
town officer administering the same any liability in addition to any the town
or said official would have otherwise been subjected to had this chapter not
been adopted. Whenever any violation of this chapter is also a violation of
state or federal law, and a state or federal agency, officer, commission or
board has jurisdiction to prosecute under said state or federal law, then the
town shall defer to said state or federal agency, officer, commission or board
in the enforcement thereof. In addition, whenever any aggrieved party has
available to such party relief in the form of civil penalties or injunctive
rights as against a violator of this chapter, then the town shall defer to said
party in the initiation of any enforcement of this chapter; provided, however,
when the town has been provided a written opinion by legal counsel stating that
the state, federal law or the availability of civil penalties or injunctive
rights are not as extensive as are provided by the terms of this chapter, or
are inadequate to cause cessation of violations of the chapter, then the Town
Council may approve the initiation of enforcement of the chapter directly.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-12-1993)
CHAPTER 94:  FIREWORKS AND FIRE PROTECTION; BURNING
Section
Burning; Fires
   
94.01   Containers for burning required
   
94.02   Supervision of fire
Fireworks
   
94.15   Regulation of storage and wholesaling of fireworks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
BURNING; FIRES
§ 94.01  CONTAINERS FOR BURNING REQUIRED.
   No person shall burn leaves, refuse, trash or set fire to any material in
any public street or alley of the town, or within 40 feet of any building in
the town; excepting nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit such burning in
any street or alley if such burning is done in an incinerator or container
approved by the Fire Department.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-6)  (Ord. 14, passed 8-6-1963)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  SUPERVISION OF FIRE.
   Any person who shall burn or set fire to any materials addressed in §
94.01, regardless of the place of burning and not in violation of that section,
shall not abandon the same and shall watch and maintain control over the same
until entirely consumed and extinguished.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-7)  (Ord. 14, passed 8-6-1963)  Penalty, see §
94.99
FIREWORKS
§ 94.15  REGULATION OF STORAGE AND WHOLESALING OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful, within the town, to store fireworks of a kind not
permitted to be sold under I.C. 22-11-14-8 within any building which has a
common wall with another building or where the distance between such building
and the wall of any adjacent building is less than ten feet.
   (B)   This section is in addition to any other restriction imposed by state
or federal law, in the case of a conflict between this section and any state or
federal law or regulation, the more restrictive of the same is to apply. This
section is not to be construed as limiting the jurisdiction of any state,
federal or county agency with respect to the sale, possession or storage of
such fireworks.
   (C)   This section is to apply to any person, firm or entity regardless of
whether the storage is for wholesale or retail purposes, or whether the storage
is for eventual sale inside or outside of the state.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall constitute an ordinance violation.
(Ord. 111, passed 6-8-1992)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
94.01 or
94.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 for each offense.
(1985 Code, § 6-2-8)  (Ord. 14, passed 8-6-1963)
CHAPTER 95:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
95.01   Opening permit required
   
95.02   Application and cash deposit
   
95.03   Restoration of pavement
   
95.04   Barriers around excavations
   
95.05   Warning lights
   
95.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
95.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
95.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
95.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
Sidewalks
   
95.35   Applicability; definitions
   
95.36   Legal obligation
   
95.37   Town may assist
 
   
95.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 95.01  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been  obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 95.03  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 95.04  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50  feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for
each added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise
for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to
contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest
responsible bidder, who shall give bond  for the faithful performance of the
work. The town executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 95.20  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
95.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 95.35  APPLICABILITY; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the town; and any reference to TOWN in
this subchapter shall refer to the town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Orland.
      HAZARDOUS ELEMENTS.  Specifically refer to any material which causes the
sidewalk to become slippery or otherwise dangerous and hazardous for use by the
public, but shall not include snow.
      RUBBISH.  Includes, but is not limited to, such matter as ashes, cans,
bottles, metal waste, broken glass, all kind of garbage, dirt, sweepings,
boxes, lumber, wood, leaves, grass, weeds, paper and litter of any kind.
      SIDEWALK.  The cement or asphalt pedestrian pathway or walkway bordering
any given property, on any all sides.
(Ord. 154, passed 1-9-1997; Ord. 188, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 95.36  LEGAL OBLIGATION.
   It shall be the legal obligation, responsibility and duty, of the owner of
any property, upon which, or bordering that property, sidewalks for public use
are located; to maintain said sidewalks at all times in such manner as to
ensure the health, safety and will being of any person, persons, or public
using such sidewalks. This includes, but is not limited to, removal of rubbish
and hazardous elements.
(Ord. 154, passed 1-9-1997)
§ 95.37  TOWN MAY ASSIST.
   This subchapter is to be specifically construed and understood to mean that
regardless of what the town may undertake to do to aid, assist, clean, plow or
in any other way relieve, mitigate, negate or in any other way does not change
the property owners legal responsibility under §
95.36, or any other section of this subchapter.
(Ord. 154, passed 1-9-1997)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, business or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
95.35 through 95.38 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any amount up to $50
per violation, payable to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and each day that
such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense, in accordance
with §§
95.35 through 95.38.
(Ord. 154, passed 1-9-1997)
CHAPTER 96:  NOISE
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   General prohibitions
   
96.03   Specific restrictions
   
96.04   Quantitative limits
   
96.05   Exemptions and permits
 
   
96.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Specifics of Noise Levels
§ 96.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL.  The loudness of a sound measured through a
filtering device intended to simulate human hearing. The level is designated dB
(A) or DBA.
      COMMERCIAL ZONE.  Zones General Business (B-1) District as established in
the Town of Orland.
      DECIBEL (DB).  A unit for measuring the sound pressure level of a sound.
      FREQUENCY.  An objective way to describe the pitch of a sound.
      HERTZ (HZ).  A unit for measuring the frequency of a sound (sometimes
called “cycles per second”).
      INDUSTRIAL ZONE.  Zones Light Industrial (I-1) District as established in
the Town of Orland.
      LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motorized vehicle with gross vehicular weight
less than 8,000 pounds, including automobiles, vans, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycles, motor scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-
karts, minibikes, trail bikes and light trucks.
      MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM.  Any exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been removed, altered or replaced to produce more noise.
      NOISE.  Any unwanted sound.
      OCTAVE BAND.  A way to divide the entire frequency range of sound into
sections for more accurate measurements.
      PERSON.  Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE.  Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, including understandable spoken
speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised (agitated) or normal or
comprehensible musical rhythms.
      RESIDENTIAL ZONES.  Zones Agricultural (A) District, Single-Family
Residential (R-1) District, Lake Residential (R-2) District, Mobile Home Park
(R-3) as established in the Town of Orland.
      SOUND LEVEL METER.  An instrument designed to measure sound pressure
levels.
      SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.  An objective way to describe the loudness of a
sound.
   (B)   All terminology used in this chapter shall be in conformance with
applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or
its successor body.
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 96.02  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person or precludes his or her or their enjoyment of property or
affects his, her or their property’s value. This general prohibition is not
limited by the specific restrictions listed in the following sections.
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03  SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   The following acts are declared to be unlawful:
   (A)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, tape or record players,
amplifiers and similar devices. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any such device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner
as to be plainly audible across property boundaries or through partitions
common to two or more persons within a building;
   (B)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
lawnmower, snowblower or similar device used outdoors between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby;
   (C)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tool or
equipment used in construction, drilling or demolition between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby;
   (D)   Horns and signaling devices. Operating a horn or other audible
signaling device on any motor vehicle except in an emergency or when required
by law;
   (E)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. Participation in any
party or gathering between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. giving rise to
noise that is plainly audible across property boundaries or between partitions
common to two or more persons within a building; and
   (F)   Animals. Harboring or keeping any animal which by causing frequent or
long continued noise shall disturb or annoy any reasonable person nearby.
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04  QUANTITATIVE LIMITS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure
level of the noise emitted during the operation of a light motor vehicle to
exceed 80 DBA in speed zones of 35 mph or less within the corporate limits of
the town. The sound pressure level measurement shall be made at a distance of
not less than 15 feet from the edge of the lane of travel or the violator.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a light motor
vehicle which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified
exhaust system or as a result of an unnecessary rapid acceleration, de-
acceleration, engine revving or tire squealing.
   (B)   Stationary source. (See Appendix A for octave-band breakdowns of the
DBA limits for each zone.)
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure
level to exceed the limits listed below at any point on the boundary of the
property where the person is located.
         (a)   If the person is located within a residential zone: 55 DBA
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   If the person is located within a commercial zone: 64 DBA at all
times.
         (c)   If the person is located within an industrial zone: 66 DBA at
all times.
      (2)   If the property boundary lies between two zones, the lower limit
shall apply regardless of the zone in which the person creating the noise is
located.
      (3)   In addition to the above, no person within a residential or a
commercial zone shall make or cause to be made any earth-shaking vibrations
perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond the property boundary of the
vibration source. No person within an industrial zone shall make or cause to be
made any earth-shaking vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments
beyond the zone boundary of the zone in which source is located.
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  EXEMPTIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of
sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency or
the emission of sound in the performance of work to prevent or alleviate
physical or property damage threatened or caused by a public calamity or other
emergency.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the authority to issue permits for:
      (1)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades or other special events
(public or personal); and
      (2)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the
community or other persons, and that the adverse impact on the health, safety
and welfare of persons affected by the permit has been outweighed by such
hardship. Permits may contain any conditions (including a time limit) that are
necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity.
   (C)   Noncompliance with any condition of the permit shall terminate it and
subject the person holding it to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The Town Council may issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a permit and the specific criteria to be considered in
deciding whether to issue a permit.
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of the motor vehicle noise limits set
forth in this chapter shall be fined no less than $50, nor more than $250, plus
court costs.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of any other provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $25 for the first offense; not less than $75 for
the second offense; and not less than $150 for the third or subsequent
offenses.
   (C)   Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (D)   During any trial concerning the provisions of this chapter, the court
may admit evidence of the sound pressure level as tested by a sound level meter
which meets or exceeds ANSI specifications for Type II equipment.
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)
APPENDIX A: SPECIFICS OF NOISE LEVELS
   
§ 1  Concise scientific definitions
   
§ 2  Octave-band breakdowns
§ 1  CONCISE SCIENTIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   The concise scientific definitions of the terms used in this chapter shall
be:
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL.  The sound pressure level of a sound measured
through an A-Weighting Filter Network. This level read is designated dB(A) or
DBA.
   DECIBEL (DB).  The unit used for comparing the sound pressure level of a
sound to the sound pressure level of a reference sound having a sound pressure
of 20 micro pascal.
   FREQUENCY.  The number of periodic oscillations, vibrations or waves per
unit time (usually one second).
   HERTZ (HZ). The unit used for measuring the frequency of a sound. The number
of hertz is the number of cycles per second of a per periodic sound pressure
wave.
   OCTAVE BAND.  A portion of the entire sound frequency spectrum contained
between two frequencies A and B such that A=2B.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.  Twenty times the logarithm (base 10) of the ratio of
the measured sound pressure to a reference pressure of 20 micro-pascal. The
sound pressure level is expressed in decibels (DB).
SPL=20LOG10       (Sound Pressure A
            Sound Pressure B)
Sound Pressure A = Measured Sound Pressure
Sound Pressure B = Reference Sound Pressure (20 Micropascals)
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 2  OCTAVE-BAND BREAKDOWNS.
   The octave-band breakdowns of the DBA limits used in this chapter shall be:
   (A)   For a residential zone: 55 DBA.
 
Octave-Band Center Frequency (Hz) P.LEE (DB) Maximum Boundary SHANE
31.5                                         72
1,000                                        45
2,000                                        39
4,000                                        34
8,000                                        32
 
   (B)   For a commercial zone: 64 DBA.
 
Octave-Band Center Frequency (Hz) P. LEE (DB) Maximum Boundary SHANE
31.5                                          79
1,000                                         55
2,000                                         50
4,000                                         46
8,000                                         43
 
   (C)   For an industrial zone: 66 DBA.
 
Octave-Band Center Frequency (Hz) P.LEE (DB) Maximum Boundary SHANE
31.5                                         80
1,000                                        57
2,000                                        52
4,000                                        48
8,000                                        45
 
(Ord. 2000-199, passed 12-20-2000)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   CAFO OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   Circus and shows
   
110.11   Retailer permit
   
110.12   Franchise agreements
§ 110.01  LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04  DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council.
      (1)   The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within
14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
      (2)   The Town Council shall set the time and place for a hearing, and
notice for the hearing shall be given to the person by mail at his or her last
known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.10  CIRCUS AND SHOWS.
   A license in the amount to be set by the Town Council from time to time to
exhibit, for pay, any caravan, circus, rope or wire dancing, ventriloquism,
puppet show, concert, theatrical performance or any other exhibition of
whatever name or description by traveling troupe or troupes, individually or
collectively, in the corporate limits of the town, shall be paid for each
separate performance.
(1985 Code, § 4-2-1)  (Ord. 3, passed 7-21-1916)
§ 110.11  RETAILER PERMIT.
   Beer and liquor retailer permits may be issued to applicants otherwise duly
qualified and as defined by the applicable laws of the state, and consent to
such issuance by the appropriate agencies, bureaus and departments of the state
with respect to premises located within the boundaries of the town.
(1985 Code, § 4-2-11)  (Ord. 9, passed 5-18-1936)
§ 110.12  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may enter into written franchise agreements for
companies to serve the town.
   (B)   Such agreements shall be binding on the parties as to rental amounts,
safety requirements, inspections, indemnification, bond requirements and other
related areas.
   (C)   Such agreements, in order to be approved, must be passed by an
appropriate ordinance of the Town Council, and shall be kept on file and open
for public inspection during regular business hours in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1985 Code, § 4-3-1)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been convicted
of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense and the
penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height.  For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11  DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.  If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  CAFO OPERATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions and applicability
   
112.02   Regulation of discharges to air
   
112.03   CAFO waste discharges to watercourses and aquifers
   
112.04   Collecting, processing and disposing of CAFO waste
   
112.05   CAFO pre-construction and pre-operation filing and notice of plans
   
112.06   Jurisdictional limits
   
112.07   Enforcement
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all confined animal feeding operations
(“CAFO”) described herein unless otherwise exempted.
      (1)   A CAFO is any one site where animals are confined or maintained for
a total of at least 45 days in any 12-month period, and such confinement or
maintenance takes place in any barn, stable, structure or any portion of a
fenced area where crops or forage vegetation (pasture) are not sustained in the
normal growing season over substantially the entire area. CAFOs governed by
this chapter confine or maintains animals of any one type in numbers exceeding
the following at one site:
         (a)   Seven hundred mature cattle, including cows, heifers, steers and
bulls;
         (b)   One thousand calves each weighing less than 200 pounds;
         (c)   Five hundred mature horses;
         (d)   One thousand five hundred swine each weighing 55 pounds or more;
         (e)   Five thousand swine each weighing less than 55 pounds;
         (f)   Two thousand five hundred sheep or lambs; or
         (g)   Twenty-five thousand poultry, including turkeys, chickens,
laying hens or ducks.
      (2)   As used herein, CAFO does not apply to farming operations which do
not exceed the above listed number of confined animals at any one site. CAFO
does not include operations where animals are confined for short periods of
time primarily for the purpose of butcher processing.
   (B)   As used throughout this document, ONE SITE means any real estate
composed of-contiguous lands held under one document of title (i.e., one deed).
Further, when multiple CAFOs conduct operations within the jurisdictional area
and have any owner(s), manager(s), partner(s) or shareholder(s) in common, such
multiple CAFOs shall be considered to be a single CAFO at one site for the
purposes of calculating the number of animals. Further as used herein, the term
CAFO or CAFO PROPERTIES or CAFO OPERATIONS includes all structures, equipment,
vehicles and lands, regardless of location or ownership, which are used in any
manner to conduct any CAFO activities, including the disposal of waste.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to any completely constructed CAFO in
active full operation with all planned animals on site as of the effective
date, but shall apply to existing facilities if the average number of animals
confined is expanded by more than 10% over the grandfathered practices in
existence at the time this chapter becomes effective or in the event operations
cease for more than 12 months.
   (D)   This chapter does not apply to CAFO land waste application practices
in existence as of the effective date, but shall apply to existing
grandfathered operations if the activities cease for more than 12 months, or
the quantity of waste discharged at any one site is expanded by more than 10%
over the grand-fathered practices in existence at the time this chapter becomes
effective.
   (E)   This chapter sets forth requirements that are in addition to all
federal, state and county legislation. In the event any federal, state or
county legislation imposes a stricter standard than called for hereunder, then,
the stricter standard shall control.
   (F)   It is the policy of this municipality that CAFO operations shall not
be allowed to detrimentally impact public health and the environmental
resources upon which the public depends, nor such operations be allowed to
interfere with any citizen’s right to be secure in the enjoyment of property.
(Ord. 230-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 112.02  REGULATION OF DISCHARGES TO AIR.
   (A)   CAFO operations may not introduce any waste gases or compounds into
the air at levels that extend beyond CAFO properties in the normal range of
human sense of smell and are detectable at any non-CAFO domestic residence.
   (B)   CAFOS operations may not introduce into the air noise at levels in
excess of 75 decibels sustained for more than one hour in any single 24 hour
period as measured at any non-CAFO domestic residence.
   (C)   CAFO operations may not introduce hydrogen sulfide into the air at
levels that exceed 0.008 parts per million as measured at any non-CAFO domestic
residence.
   (D)   CAFO operations may not introduce suspended particles into the air
that exceed 25 ug/m3 (micrograms per cubic meter of ambient air) anywhere
outside the boundaries of any CAFO properties.
   (E)   CAFO waste storage facilities that are completely enclosed and
designed to prevent the escape of odor and gasses, may not be located closer
than one-half mile from any domestic residence already in existence at the time
the CAFO operations first begin. In the event the CAFO waste storage is not
completely enclosed, nor designed to avoid the release of odor and gasses,
then, it may not be located any closer than two miles from any domestic
residence already in existence at the time the CAFO operations first begin.
   (F)   To the extent more than one of the above standards govern a CAFO
emission, then, the stricter standard shall control.
(Ord. 230-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 112.03  CAFO WASTE DISCHARGES TO WATERCOURSES AND AQUIFERS.
   (A)   CAFO operations may not discharge any solid or liquid waste upon lands
with drainage tiles or drainage conduits that lead to any surface watercourse,
including any ditch, stream, river, reservoir or lake.
   (B)   CAFO operations may not discharge any solid or liquid waste within
one-quarter mile of the bank of any surface watercourse, including any ditch,
stream, river, reservoir or lake.
   (C)   CAFO operations may not discharge any solid or liquid waste upon lands
where surface waters drain, leach or migrate into any aquifer that already
contains nitrate levels that exceed federal safe drinking water standards.
   (D)   CAFO waste storage with a bottom that is not designed to completely
prevent all discharge or escape of waste products into the soil may not be
located upon lands where surface waters drain, leach or migrate into any
aquifer that already contains nitrate levels that exceed federal safe drinking
water standards.
(Ord. 230-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 112.04  COLLECTING, PROCESSING AND DISPOSING OF CAFO WASTE.
   (A)   This section applies to the collection, transport and disposal of CAFO
waste, including waste agricultural products, animal manure and dead animals.
   (B)   The regulation of discharges to air and watercourses stated in §§
112.02 and
112.03 shall apply with equal force to all individuals or entities contracting,
agreeing or consenting to participate in any collection, transport or disposal
of CAFO waste.
   (C)   Vehicles and equipment engaged in the transport on public roads of
CAFO waste shall be permanently marked “CAFO WASTE” and include the name,
address and phone number of the CAFO owners and also the owner contracting to
transport the CAFO waste. All mandatory markings shall be conspicuous and
legible at a distance of 50 feet both from the rear and side of the waste
transport vehicle or equipment.
   (D)   When in operation on any public road, CAFO waste transport vehicles
and equipment shall completely enclose all waste and shall be visibly free of
all waste substances, whether loaded or empty.
   (E)   Prior to discharge of any CAFO waste upon lands, the owner of each one
site for disposal shall give written notice to all residential homes and
businesses located within two miles from the property boundaries. A regular
notice shall be sent quarterly by U.S. certified mail on the following
schedule: March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1. Every regular quarterly
notice shall include the names, addresses and phone numbers of all owners of
the property and all owners of any contractor engaged in the transportation to
or application of the waste to the lands; state the physical address of the
property where discharge will take place; and state all dates when any
discharge upon land is scheduled. Deviations from the noticed schedule shall be
allowed, but in the event of such deviation, a new notice shall be sent within
24 hours advising of the deviation. Notices of deviation shall be delivered by
the same means, to the same individuals and business, and shall contain all
other identifying information called for in the regular quarterly notice. For
purpose of “owner identification” when there is a corporate owner, partnership
owner or multiple layers of owners, all underlying individual partners or
shareholders of such entities are considered to be “owners” for purposes of the
notice information called for in this provision, except when the corporation is
publicly traded and then, the executive officers and directors of the
corporations shall be considered to be the “owner” for purposes of the notice.
(Ord. 230-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 112.05  CAFO PRE-CONSTRUCTION AND PRE-OPERATION FILING AND NOTICE OF PLANS.
   (A)   Plans for construction of CAFO facilities must be filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town six months before initiation of any construction
activities. Further, within seven days from filing, the person or entity
proposing to construct CAFO facilities shall publish notice in newspapers of
general circulation in both LaGrange and Steuben Counties. The published notice
shall indicate that CAFO construction plans are on file and available for
review at the town office. The notice shall also state the physical location of
the proposed facilities. In addition to publication, such notice shall also be
mailed by U.S. certified mail to all owners or residents of property adjacent
to lands where CAFO operations will take place.
   (B)   Plans for CAFO waste handling and disposal practices must be filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town six months before initiation of any waste
handling or processing activities. Further, within seven days from filing, the
person or entity proposing to operate any CAFO facilities shall publish notice
in newspapers of general circulation in both LaGrange and Steuben Counties. The
published notice shall indicate that CAFO waste handling and disposal plans are
on file and available for review at the town office. The notice shall also
state the physical location of all proposed disposal facilities and identify by
name, address and phone number the owners of all contractors who will be
participating in any waste handling activities and also state the name, address
and phone number of all owners of lands where any discharge activities shall
take place. In addition to publication, such notice shall also be mailed by
U.S. certified mail to all owners or residents of property adjacent to lands
where any discharge activities will take place.
   (C)   The plans required to be filed by this section shall be of sufficient
detail to affirmatively demonstrate that all proposed CAFO operations will be
in compliance with this chapter. In the event litigation is initiated
challenging compliance with this provision, then CAFO construction or CAFO
operations shall not take place while such an action is pending in the courts.
(Ord. 230-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 112.06  JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS.
   Within the state, the sections of this chapter shall be in full force within
the boundaries of the town and outside the town to its full extraterritorial
jurisdiction of a radius of four miles in all directions from all town limits.
Further, within the state, §
112.03(A) and (B) shall be in full force up to and including a radius of ten
miles in all directions from all town limits.
(Ord. 230-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 112.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter may be enforced in either the Steuben or LaGrange County
courts by the bringing of a civil action for enforcement by any of the
following: the town; any citizen of the town; any resident or owner or property
in the town; or any resident or owner of property within the jurisdictional
area covered by this chapter. In the case of an individual suit, the person
bringing the action must be able to demonstrate they have been, or are likely
to be, impacted by a past, present or threatened violation of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the court finds a violation of this chapter, fines for
each separate violation shall be assessed in an amount equal to the maximum
allowable daily fine which may be imposed by a municipality for each separate
violation of its ordinances. Violations of separate sections and each day any
violation continues are all considered separate violations. All assessed fines
shall be paid to the town, regardless of who initiates and prosecutes the
enforcement action.
   (C)   In the event of damage to private property or persons, including any
diminished value in real estate, then, such an individual shall be entitled to
an award of all damages reasonably found to have resulted from violation of
this chapter.
   (D)   All owners of any CAFO or lands where any CAFO operation takes place,
including the discharge of waste, shall be held strictly, and jointly and
severally, liable for all fines and damages assessed in any enforcement action
that relate to their CAFO operations or lands. Negligence or fault need not be
shown to establish a violation.
   (E)   Shareholders of privately held corporations, or partners of limited
partnerships, operating or owning any aspect of CAFO operations, including
lands used for the discharge of CAFO waste, shall be liable in their individual
capacities for any damages and fines that relate to their corporation’s or
partnership’s CAFO operations, but only if the court finds such person knew, or
should have known, of the violation and such person failed to report it to the
town within 24 hours of when that person first knew or should have know of the
violation.
   (F)   Any person, firm or entity performing any engineering, architectural,
and construction services in relationship to any CAFO facilities or operations
also shall be liable for any and all violations of this chapter, if the
violation can be shown to have resulted from deficiencies in the plans or
services provided by such individuals, firms or entities.
   (G)   Until paid, damages and fines as assessed shall become a lien upon all
property in the state held by a person or entity found to be liable.
(Ord. 230-07, passed 1-8-2007)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Violations
   
130.02   Exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2000-197, passed 12-20-2000)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to a child who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult, specified in writing by his or her parent,
guardian or custodian; or
   (C)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school-sanctioned activity;
      (3)   A religious event;
      (4)   Any other organized community-sponsored events, such as a baseball
league or other organized sporting event and activities such as 4H fair, which
would have similar supervision and sponsorship as a school-sponsored event;
      (5)   Any other activity that is:
         (a)   Organized or sponsored; and
         (b)   Supervised by a responsible group, entity, town or organization
including, but not limited to, religious events, school events and political or
civic events.
      (6)   An emergency errand directed by his or her parents or guardian or
other adult person having the care and custody of the minor as specified in
writing; or
      (7)   The exercising of First Amendment rights protected by the state and
United States Constitution, including the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech and right of assembly.
(Ord. 2000-197, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   The child, custodial parent or legal guardian of any child who commits a
curfew violation, as defined in §
130.01, violates this chapter and shall be subject to the following fines:
   (A)   Twenty-five dollars for a first offense, plus court costs;
   (B)   One hundred dollars for a second offense within a one-year period,
plus court costs; or
   (C)   Two hundred dollars for a third offense and every subsequent offense
within a one-year period, plus court costs.
(Ord. 2000-197, passed 12-20-2000)
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Prohibition
   
131.03   Signs posted
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADLY WEAPON.  A loaded or unloaded firearm (as defined in I.C. 35-47-1-5),
or a weapon, device, taser (as defined in I.C. 35-47-8-3), electronic stun
weapon (as defined in I.C. 35-47-8-1), or stun gun (as defined in I.C. 35-47-8-
2), equipment, including knives, chemical substance or other material that, in
the manner it is used, or could ordinary be used, or is intended to be used, is
readily capable of causing serious bodily injury.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and FEDERAL ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Have the same
meaning as set forth in I.C. 35-31.5-2-185.
   POSSESSION.  On or about a person’s body or clothing, or in any of the
following carried by the person or under that person’s direct and immediate
control:
      (1)   Purse;
      (2)   Backpack;
      (3)   Cooler;
      (4)   Sack;
      (5)   Carrier; or
      (6)   Other container.
(Ord. 237-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 131.02  PROHIBITION.
   All individuals, other than a law enforcement officer or federal enforcement
officer on duty and performing his or her official duties, shall be prohibited
from possessing any deadly weapon in any building now or hereafter owned,
leased, operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town.
(Ord. 237-10, passed 5-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  SIGNS POSTED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the applicable buildings and at appropriate locations
on the interior of said buildings as the town determines necessary.
(Ord. 237-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   It is an infraction for any person to violate any provision of this chapter.
Any individual who shall violate the provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200 and not
more than $2,500.
(Ord. 237-10, passed 5-10-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNDERGROUND OR BURIED UTILITIES
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Buildings and Structures; Codes Adopted
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Authority
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.06   Application for permits
   
150.07   Permit required
   
150.08   Other ordinances
   
150.09   Fees
   
150.10   Review of application
   
150.11   Inspections
   
150.12   Entry
   
150.13   Stop order
   
150.14   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.15   Standards
   
150.16   Violations
   
150.17   Right of appeal
   
150.18   Remedies
   
150.19   Fees for improvement location and other permits
Structures and Excavations Deemed to be a Public Nuisance
   
150.30   Structures or excavation subject to unsafe declaration
   
150.31   Content of information
   
150.32   Notification of hearing
   
150.33   Determination at hearing
   
150.34   Enforcement remedies
   
150.35   Cost of abatement
   
150.36   Cost of enforcement
   
150.37   Alternative statutory procedure and remedies
Building Commissioner
   
150.50   County Building Commissioner for town
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES; CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinance supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Orland, Indiana,” may be cited as
such, and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to assist in providing minimum standards
for the protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and
welfare, and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of
building and structures, but shall not be construed as assurance thereof.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.03  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this code. Any variance from adopted
building rules are subject to approval under I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.04  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures,
other than fences and industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4, in the town, and such portions of the
jurisdictional zoning area outside of said town as the applicable County
Commissioners shall delegate to him or her; provided, however, the county shall
retain full responsibility for the monitoring thereof. The Building
Commissioner shall cease to exercise jurisdiction in the jurisdictional area if
directed to do so by either the Council or the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.05  ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby
incorporated by reference in this code and shall include later amendments to
those articles as the same are published in the State Register or the Indiana
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes: State Building Code (675 I.A.C. 13-
2.6-1 et seq.);
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes: State Residential
Code (675 I.A.C. 14-4.3-1 et seq.);
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes: State Plumbing Code (675 I.A.C. 16-
1.4-1 et seq.);
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes: State Electrical Code (675 I.A.C.
17-1.8-1 et seq.);
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: State Mechanical Code (675 I.A.C.
18-1.6-1 et seq.);
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes: State Energy Conservation
Code (675 I.A.C. 19-4-1 et seq.); and
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: State Swimming Pool Code (675
I.A.C. 20-1-1-1 et seq.).
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Clerk- Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.06  APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   The Building Commissioner may refuse to issue a permit for the foregoing
purpose, if the application for such permit is not accompanied by a plat or
sketch of the proposed location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and
specifications showing the work to be done. All plans for building construction
under the authority of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of
the state are to be filed with the State Building Commissioner. No local
permits are to be issued hereunder until a copy of a design release, issued by
the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-
15-3-1, shall be provided to the Building before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by such design release.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.07  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration or
repair of any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds (suggest about
$500), using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner. All permits shall be
issued by the Building Commissioner, and all fees provided for herein shall be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.08  OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
such ordinances. Whenever any regulation set forth herein conflict with any
other ordinance, the more restrictive is to apply.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.09  FEES.
   The Council shall establish fees for improvement location and other permits
from time to time by Council resolution. Resolution passed 8-4-1988
establishing fees for improvement location and other permits is adopted by
reference in §
150.19, and is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.10  REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Where mandated by statute, the Building Commissioner shall, prior to the
issuance of any building permit hereunder:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonable safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction material and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.11  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner is to make, or cause to be made, such inspections of the work
being done under such permit as are believed necessary to monitor compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and the terms of the permit.
   (B)   Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.12  ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her duly authorized representatives, may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this subchapter.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.13  STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.14  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered
or repaired after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.15  STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures is to be performed in a manner complying with the minimum mandatory
requirements to the extent the town is mandated with the enforcement thereof,
the Building Commissioner may, in addition, refuse to approve construction
deemed by him or her to be not performed in a good and workmanlike manner
according to accepted standards and practices in the trade as established in
the community.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.16  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Commissioner first through the Board of Zoning Appeals and then to the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.18  REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner may, in the name of the town, bring actions in the
Superior or Circuit Courts of Steuben or Dekalb County, Indiana, for mandatory
and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any
order or orders, made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for
mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the
penalties provided for in this subchapter. Such suits are to be initiated in
the county in which the property is located.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 150.19  FEES FOR IMPROVEMENT LOCATION AND OTHER PERMITS.
   Pursuant to §
150.09, the fees for inspection and issuance of permits are hereby established
and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Res. passed 8-4-1988; Res. passed 9-3-1991)
STRUCTURES AND EXCAVATIONS DEEMED TO BE A PUBLIC NUISANCE
§ 150.30  STRUCTURES OR EXCAVATION SUBJECT TO UNSAFE DECLARATION.
   (A)   The Council working in conjunction with the state or County Board of
Health, or the Town Zoning Inspector or Administrator or the Town Marshal is
hereby authorized and empowered to declare certain structures and excavations a
public nuisance and to cause the same to be demolished, razed and filled in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
   (B)   Structures or excavations subject to being determined public
nuisances:
      (1)   Any structure containing such debris, refuse, garbage, trash or
other material to an extent that it has become attractive to rodents, wild
animals or insects to such an extent as presenting a reasonably perceived
hazard to the health and safety of the occupants, neighbors or children;
      (2)   Any structure which is sufficiently unsound as to present a danger
of partial or total collapse of any wall, roof or floor and presenting a
reasonably perceived hazard to the health and safety of the occupants,
neighbors or children of the area;
      (3)   Any structure commenced or completed in violation of any building
or zoning code of the town;
      (4)   Any structure upon which construction was lawfully commenced, but
completion has not been effected within the limits of reasonable diligence
after the permit was issued;
      (5)   Any structure which has been abandoned in an unsecured state, and
constitutes a dangerous attraction to children, or has become sufficiently
decrepit to constitute an attractive site for graffiti and vandals;
      (6)   Any inhabited structure which is not connected to a functioning and
approved septic system or other approved waste disposal system;
      (7)   Any unsecured excavation which presents a reasonably perceived
hazard to the health and safety of citizens and children, provided this clause
shall not include naturally existing lakes, streams or ponds, nor swimming
pools constructed and fenced in compliance with the provisions of the town
code, man-made farm ponds or fish breeding ponds, provided the same have filled
after a reasonable period of time and the same do not constitute a health
hazard due to stagnation or pollution; and
      (8)   Any building or structure or any part of a building, structure or
premises that is considered an unsafe building or unsafe premises within the
terms of I.C. 36-7-9-4, or any amends or replacements thereof.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31  CONTENT OF INFORMATION.
   In the event the Town Zoning Inspector or Administrator, Building Inspector,
County or State Health Inspector, Fire Chief or Marshal, Town Marshal or
President of the Council shall determine that a structure or excavation
constitutes a public nuisance within the terms of this subchapter, then said
official may present to the Town Council a written statement containing the
following information:
   (A)   Identification of the structure in question;
   (B)   Name or names of the owners as stated upon the tax rolls of the county
with the address set forth therein;
   (C)   Name or names of the occupants to the extent they can be reasonably
determined;
   (D)   A property description of the parcel upon which the structure or
excavation is located; and
   (E)   A statement of the reasons why said structure or excavation is deemed
a public nuisance.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32  NOTIFICATION OF HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the foregoing statement, the Council may, through the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer, cause the owners and occupants to be served with notice
of the statement and of the fact that a hearing will be held on a date no
earlier than ten days to determine whether said structure or excavation does in
fact constitute a public nuisance, the possible consequences of such a
determination, and informing said parties of their right to present evidence
and to be represented at such a hearing.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)
§ 150.33  DETERMINATION AT HEARING.
   On the date, and at the time and place scheduled for said hearing, the
Council shall hear evidence respecting the determination of said structure or
excavation as a public nuisance. If the structure is determined to be a public
nuisance, then the Council shall consider appropriate action to be taken to
abate the nuisance in the form of barricading or securing, demolition or fill,
or rehabilitation and clearing. The Council after determining the appropriate
abatement action shall give the owners and occupants a reasonable period of
time, not less than ten days, to effect said abatement.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)
§ 150.34  ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   Upon the expiration of the abatement period established by the Council and
no abatement having been effected, the Council may:
   (A)   Cause or contract to have the nuisance abated in the manner previously
determined;
   (B)   Institute judicial proceedings to obtain an order requiring the
occupant and owner to abate said nuisance; or
   (C)   Set another hearing upon the matter.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)
§ 150.35  COST OF ABATEMENT.
   In the event the Council causes or contracts to have the nuisance abated,
all costs incurred by the town and associated with the abatement are to be
reimbursed by the owner or occupants of the property, and upon the Clerk-
Treasurer filing with the Recorder of the county, a notice of lien stating the
name of the owner of record, the description of the property, and the amount of
the costs incurred the town shall, have a lien against said property for the
costs incurred.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)
§ 150.36  COST OF ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event the Council institutes judicial proceedings to obtain an order
requiring the occupant and owner to abate said nuisance, the owner and
occupants are to reimburse to the town all costs including attorney fees
associated with obtaining said order and any costs associated with carrying out
such an order.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)
§ 150.37  ALTERNATIVE STATUTORY PROCEDURE AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The remedies provided by this subchapter shall be in addition to any
other remedies available to the town by the town code, administrative
regulation, or state or federal statute.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of division (A) above, the town shall
also have such remedies as are set forth in I.C. 36-7-9 which is hereby adopted
by reference pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3. When exercising any remedy provided in
said chapter the Town Zoning Inspector is designated as the administrative
officer, the procedural provisions of said chapter are to be followed and
applied, and the term SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST is to have the definition
set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2. The provisions of this division (B) are in addition
to any regulatory powers and provisions which the town has by virtue of this
subchapter and I.C. 36-8-2-4.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-7-1988)
BUILDING COMMISSIONER
§ 150.50  COUNTY BUILDING COMMISSIONER FOR TOWN.
   (A)   The County Building Commissioner is the authorized and designated
office to administer building rules and inspection within the boundaries of the
town.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner of the county is authorized and empowered to
issue building permits, make inspection, order corrections of violation, issue
certificated of occupancy, and to perform such other ministerial duties as are
commonly performed in the execution of his or her office, on behalf of the
town.
   (C)   Any appeal of a decision by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall lie first with the County Executive pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, and to the
Fire Prevention and Building Commission.
   (D)   Any judicial remedy sought by the Building Commissioner of the county
to enforce his or her lawful orders to obtain compliance with the building
rules of the town shall be brought to the Town Attorney.
   (E)   Such permit fees that are collected by the Building Commissioner shall
be accounted for and deposited in the General Fund of the county.
   (F)   Town to be assessed a percentage or the Building Department budget
based on the town’s percentage of the total assessed valuation of the county.
Permit fees collected by the County Building Department from within the
corporate limits of each town to be deducted from that town’s assessment due to
county in January of following year. Annual assessments to be adjusted, to
County Building Department budget after budget has been approved by the County
Council. Any excess over the assessment of any town will not be refundable and
will remain in the County General Fund.
   (G)   The designation set forth herein is to remain in effect continuously
from year to year without the necessity of a formal renewal by either the town
or county, unless terminated by resolution of the County Commissioners or the
Town Council. Any termination shall not, except in the case of mutual written
agreement, be effective until 90 days after the date the non-terminating unit
receives written notice of the termination from the terminating party.
(Ord. passed 8-6-1991)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
150.01 through
150.19, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.19, for each shall be fined in any sum not less than $10, nor more than
$300. Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence
of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 86, passed 10-4-1988)
CHAPTER 151:  UNDERGROUND OR BURIED UTILITIES
Section
   
151.01   Designated area
   
151.02   Prohibition
   
151.03   Application
§ 151.01  DESIGNATED AREA.
   (A)   The town hereby designates and establishes as an area strictly for
underground or buried utilities (the “designated area”), to be applied in the
town rights-of-way and granted utility easements located in the following:
      (1)   All areas of the town except the physical space where overhead or
above ground utilities, utility facilities, overhead lines or associated
overhead structures used or useful in supplying electric, communication or
similar and associated services, currently exist;
      (2)   All areas of the town where proposed road projects, redevelopment
areas and/or economic development areas provide for and require underground
buried utilities and utility facilities, including, but not limited to,
electric, communication or similar associated services;
      (3)   All areas of the town that have approved platted subdivisions and/
or have neighborhood covenant restrictions that require underground buried
utilities and utility facilities, including but not limited to electric,
communication or similar associated services; and
      (4)   All areas of right of way or proposed right-of-way throughout the
town, or in a utility easement granted by the town, whether or not above ground
utilities or utility facilities currently exist.
   (B)   The above designation shall be true and effective for any permit
authority (as defined by I.C. 8-1-32.3-8 or as amended or renumbered), under
the Council’s authority and/or jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 4-28-2017)
§ 151.02  PROHIBITION.
   No person, corporation, utility or other entity shall place or construct
within the designated area any poles (including any utility pole as defined by
I.C. 8-1-32.3-12 or as amended or renumbered), overhead lines, and associate
overhead structures (including any wireless support structure as defined by
I.C. 8-1-32.3-14 or as amended or renumbered), used or useful in supplying
electric, communication or similar associated services. This restriction does
not prohibit:
   (A)   The collocation of a small cell facility (as defined by I.C. 8-1-32.3-
9 or as amended or renumbered) on existing utility poles and wireless support
structures within the designated area; or
   (B)   The replacement of existing utility poles and wireless support
structures within the designated area.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 4-28-2017)
§ 151.03  APPLICATION.
   Any person, corporation, utility or other entity that requires the
construction, placement or use of a small cell facility and the associated
supporting structure in the designated area may submit an application to the
Council requesting a waiver to install new utility poles or new wireless
support structures within the designated area pursuant to provisions as
outlined in I.C. 8-1-32.3. Unless authorization through a waiver has been
obtained from the Council, all utilities located within the designated area be
buried or placed underground.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 4-28-2017)
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Adoption
§ 152.01  ADOPTION.
   The zoning ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as fully as if set out at length herein.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   VACATIONS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
29       7-12-1983      Grants gas franchise to Northern Indiana Fuel and Light
                        Company, Inc.
89       4-6-1989       Grants cable franchise to Country Cable Systems, Inc.
                       
 
TABLE II:  VACATIONS
 
Ord.  Date         Description
No.   Passed   
2018- 11-12-2018   Vacates public way: the portion of West Parker Street as platted in the town,
007                beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 29 in Parker’s First Addition
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1985 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Reference Code Section
I.C. Reference                      Code Section
1-1-1-5                             10.04
1-1-1-7                             10.12
1-1-1-8                             10.06
1-1-4-5                             10.05
1-1-5-1                             10.11
1-1-6-1                             10.08
3-10-7-2.9                          34.45
3-10-7-2.9(d)                       34.45
4-33-13-5                           35.11
5-3-1                               31.077
5-4-1-18                            34.31
5-13-9 et seq.                      35.10,
                                    35.12
5-14-1.5                            31.020
5-14-1.5-3.5                        31.024
5-14-1.5-3.6                        31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)                       31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b)                       31.024
5-14-1.5-4(c)                       31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1                        31.021
5-14-3-3                            31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)                     31.021
5-16-9-5                            Chapter 73
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.                30.15
6-3.6-9-17                          35.08
8-1-32.3                            151.03
8-1-32.3-8                          151.01
8-1-32.3-9                          151.02
8-1-32.3-12                         151.02
8-1-32.3-14                         151.02
8-14-1-1                            35.02
8-22-2                              31.021,
                                    35.12
8-22-3                              31.021
8-22-3-1                            35.12
8-23-5                              35.12
8-23-30                             35.12
9-1-2-1                             35.15
9-3-1-3                             35.03
9-7-6-1 to 9-7-6-6                  92.27
9-13-2                              70.002
9-13-2 et seq.                      91.17
9-13-2-94                           70.001
9-13-2-105                          91.17
9-17-2-12                           36.02
9-20-1-3                            70.001
9-21-1-1                            70.001
9-21-1-2                            70.001
9-21-1-3                            70.001
9-21-1-4                            70.001
9-21-1-5                            70.001
9-22-1                              92.23
9-22-1 et seq.                      92.28
13-11-2-65                          35.09
13-22                               31.077
13-23                               31.077
13-24                               31.077
13-25-4                             31.077
13-25-5                             31.077
13-25-5-8.5(f)                      31.077
16-18-2-107                         35.09
16-18-2-110                         35.09
22-9-1-4 et seq.                    93.02
22-9-9.5-3                          93.03
22-9.5-1 et seq.                    93.01
22-9.5-2-2                          93.02
22-9.5-2-8                          93.02
22-9.5-2-9                          93.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)                      93.01
22-9.5-2-10(c)                      93.01
22-9.5-2-11                         93.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.                    93.09
22-9.5-5                            93.02
22-9.5-5-3                          93.03
22-9.5-6                            93.02,
                                    93.10
22-11-14-8                          94.15
22-13-2-7                           150.17
22-13-2-7(b)                        150.03
22-15-3-1                           150.06
22-15-4                             150.04
25                                  31.021
25-37-1-11                          Chapter 111
31-31-8                             35.09
31-31-9                             35.09
33-6-3-1                            37.01
33-6-3-1 through 33-6-3-5           37.01
34-4-32                             50.04
35-38-2.6-2                         35.09
35-41-1-17                          131.01
35-47-1-5                           131.01
35-47-2-3                           35.04
35-47-8-1                           131.01
35-47-8-2                           131.01
35-47-8-3                           131.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                     10.99
36-1-7-1 through 36-1-7-12          30.04
36-1-8-5.1                          35.08
36-2-7-7                            34.33
36-5-2-2                            10.15
36-5-2-3(a)                         31.001
36-5-2-3(b)                         31.001
36-5-2-3(c)                         31.001
36-5-2-3(d)                         31.001
36-5-2-3(e)                         31.001
36-5-2-3(f)                         31.001
36-5-2-3(g)                         31.001
36-5-2-4.1                          31.077
36-5-2-4.1(e)(1)                    34.47
36-5-2-4.2                          31.076
36-5-2-6                            31.002
36-5-2-7                            31.004
36-5-2-8                            31.026
36-5-2-9                            31.002,
                                    70.001
36-5-2-9.2                          31.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)                       31.075
36-5-2-9.4(b)                       31.076
36-5-2-9.6                          31.075
36-5-2-9.8                          31.076
36-5-2-10                           31.077
36-5-2-10.2                         31.078
36-5-3-2                            34.03,
                                    34.15
36-5-4-7                            34.32
36-5-6-2                            34.02
36-5-6-7                            34.04
36-5-7-2                            34.15
36-5-7-3                            34.15
36-5-7-4                            34.16
36-5-7-6                            34.17
36-7                                31.076,
                                    31.077
36-7-4-201                          32.02
36-7-202(a)                         32.02
36-7-4-205(a) through (f)           32.02
36-7-4-214                          32.02
36-7-215                            32.02
36-7-8-9                            150.50
36-7-9                              150.37
36-7-9-2                            150.37
36-7-9-3                            150.37
36-7-9-4                            150.30
36-7-12-1 et seq.                   32.04
36-7-14                             35.11
36-7-14.5                           35.11
36-8-1-8                            35.09
36-8-1-9                            35.09
36-8-2-4                            150.37
36-8-14                             35.07
36-8-15-3                           35.09
36-9-2-7                            70.001
36-9-15.5                           35.17
36-9-16-2                           35.07
36-9-16-3                           35.07
36-9-17                             35.07
36-9-26                             35.07
36-10-3-10(1)                       32.05
36-10-3-11                          32.05
36-10-3-17(a) through 36-10-3-17(d) 32.05
36-10-4-36                          35.07
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code Reference 2020 Code Section
1985 Code Reference 2020 Code Section
2-1-1               34.01
2-1-2               34.02
2-1-3               34.03
2-1-4               34.04
2-2-1               34.15
2-2-2               34.16
2-2-3               34.17
2-3-1               34.30
2-3-3               34.31
2-3-4               34.32
2-3-9               34.33
2-4-1               32.01
2-4-2               32.02
2-4-3               32.03
2-4-4               32.04
2-4-5               32.05
2-5-1               30.02
2-6-1               30.15
2-6-2               30.16
2-6-3               30.17
2-6-4               30.18
2-6-5               30.19
2-7-1               35.01
2-7-2               35.02
2-7-3               35.03
2-7-4               35.04
2-7-5               35.05
2-7-6               35.06
2-8-1               30.03
2-8-2               30.04
4-2-1               110.10
4-2-11              110.11
4-3-1               110.12
5-1-1               91.01
5-2-1               91.02
6-2-6               94.01
6-2-7               94.02
6-2-8               94.99
9-1-1               50.01
9-1-2               50.02
9-1-3               50.03
9-2-1               50.04
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
-        8-4-1988       150.19
-        9-3-1991       150.19
158      5-8-1997       50.05
17-09    12-14-2009     33.03
27-12    12-17-2012     33.01
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
21       - -         32.01 through
                     32.03
05-224   - -         91.20
-        5-2-1916    34.15
3        7-21-1916   110.10
9        5-18-1936   110.11
12       6-2-1947    91.02
                     94.01,
14       8-6-1963    94.02,
                     94.99
-        7-3-1979    32.01,
                     32.04
22       3-2-1980    32.03,
                     32.05
29       7-12-1983   TSO, Table I
40       4-23-1984   30.02
43       5-24-1984   50.04
58       5-7-1985    30.15 through
                     30.19
-        3-3-1987    52.01 through
                     52.34
84       7-7-1988    150.30 through
                     150.37
                     150.01 through
86       10-4-1988   150.18,
                     150.99
89       4-6-1989    TSO, Table I
94       6-4-1990    30.15 through
                     30.19
97       11-5-1990   35.15
101      7-2-1991    35.17
-        8-6-1991    150.5
109      4-13-1992   35.16
111      6-8-1992    94.15
112      6-8-1992    34.47
124      7-12-1992   37.01,
                     37.02
123      7-12-1993   93.01 through
                     93.11
126      12-13-1993  50.06
136      6-13-1994   35.07
                     95.35 through
154      1-9-1997    95.37,
                     95.99
153      1-10-1997   52.11
156      3-13-1997   34.33
157      3-13-1997   36.03
166      1-8-1998    37.02
186      12-9-1999   71.99
                     37.01,
188      4-10-2000   37.02,
                     95.35
                     130.01,
2000-197 12-20-2000  130.02,
                     130.99
2000-198 12-20-2000  92.20 through
                     92.29
                     96.01 through
                     96.05,
2000-199 12-20-2000  96.99,
                     Chapter 96, Appendix A, § 1,
                     Chapter 96, Appendix A, § 2
                     92.01 through
2001-201 5-14-2001   92.05,
                     92.99
                     91.15 through
2002-212 8-12-2002   91.34,
                     91.99
03-217   9-8-2003    35.11
04-219   9-13-2004   91.22
04-220   9-13-2004   35.08
05-226   10-11-2005  70.055,
                     70.999
05-227   12-27-2005  34.34
228-06   - -2006     91.03
330-06   9-11-2006   35.10
230-07   1-8-2007    112.01 through
                     112.07
                     71.02,
233-09   7-13-2009   71.03,
                     71.99
234-09   8-10-2009   35.09
                     131.01 through
237-10   5-10-2010   131.03,
                     131.99
238-10   5-10-2010   70.056,
                     70.999
                     90.01 through
242-12   - -2012     90.05,
                     90.99
241-12   6-11-2012   33.15 through
                     33.19
246      8-12-2013   33.02
                     70.001 through
                     70.003,
                     70.015 through
                     70.020,
                     70.035 through
                     70.054,
                     70.070 through
                     70.072,
245      9-9-2013    70.085,
                     70.086,
                     70.100 through
                     70.108,
                     70.999,
                     71.99,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. II,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. III,
                     Ch. 73 Sch. I
251-14   10- -2014   52.31
2016-001 5-9-2016    35.12
2016-002 5-9-2016    35.08
2016-003 6-13-2016   36.01
2016-005 12-12-2016  35.13
2016-006 12-12-2016  35.14
2017-006 4-21-2017   51.01
2017-007 4-28-2017   151.01 through
                     151.03
2017-009 6-12-2017   36.02
2017-010 6-22-2017   35.02
2017-014 12-11-2017  Ch. 72 Sch. III
2018-003 8-13-2018   34.45
2018-004 8-13-2018   34.46
2018-007 11-12-2018  TSO, Table II
                    
 
 
