OSGOOD, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-7 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 2024-8, passed 11-19-2024 and
State law current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
 
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
 
Council Member  Holley M. Rose
Council Member  Christopher Kuhn Sr.
Council Member  William Roberts
Clerk-Treasurer Tamara Wilhoit
Police Chief    Alex Wilhelm
Fire Chief      Kyle Negangard
 
 
Council Members
Christopher Kuhn Holley Rose
William Roberts   
 
Town of Osgood
147 W. Ripley Street
Osgood, IN 47037
Phone: (812) 689-4240
Fax: (812) 689-5448
www.osgoodindiana.org
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 2016-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF OSGOOD/INDIANA
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify, and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operations of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF OSGOOD.
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Osgood/Indiana."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
OSGOOD, INDIANA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
      11.   Town Standards
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Town Organization
      31.   Town Policies
      32.   Employment Policies
      33.   Ordinance Violations Bureau
      34.   Finances
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   General Provisions
      51.   Water
      52.   Gas
      53.   Solid Waste
      54.   Sewer
      55.   Wastewater Pretreatment
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Recreational Vehicles
      72.   Traffic Schedules
      73.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animals
      91.   Nuisances; Health and Sanitation
      92.   Public Property and the Community Center
      93.   Fair Housing
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Provisions
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Offenses
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Building Regulations; Construction
      151.   Flood Damage Prevention
      152.   Stormwater
      153.   Erosion Control
      154.   Manufactured Homes
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      I.   Annexations
      II.   Easements
      III.   Agreements
      IV.   Zoning
      V.   Economic Revitalization Areas
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in Code; provided; such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granted or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 16th day of February, 2016.
                           TOWN OF OSGOOD
                            /s/ Norman Kappes
                           Norman Kappes, President
                            /s/ Vickie D. Holliday
                           Vickie D. Holliday, Member
                            /s/ Holley M. Rose
                           Holley M. Rose, Member
ATTEST:
/s/ Tamara Wilhoit
Tamara Wilhoit, Clerk Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2017-3
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF OSGOOD, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF OSGOOD:
Section l.   That the S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed publishes as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Primarily adopted by the Council of the Town of Osgood, this 18th day of July,
2017.
Ayes: 3
Nays: 0
Whole number of Council being three.
Finally, passed and adopted by the Council for the Town of Osgood on this 15th
day of August, 2017.
Ayes:
Nays:
Whole number of Council being three.
Whereupon, Town Council declared said Ordinance adopted.
Norman Kappes /s/
Norman Kappes, President
Holley M. Rose /s/
Holley M. Rose, Member
David Bultman /s/
David Bultman, Member
                     ATTEST: Tamara Wilhoit
                         Tamara Wilhoit, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2019-7
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF OSGOOD, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF OSGOOD:
Section l.   That the S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed publishes as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 17th day o September, 2019.
Norman Kappes /s/
Norman Kappes, President
 
Holley M. Rose /s/
Holley M. Rose, Member
 
David Bultman /s/
David Bultman, Member
 
                     ATTEST: Tamara Wilhoit
                         Tamara Wilhoit, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2020-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF OSGOOD, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF OSGOOD:
Section 1.   That the S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 17th day of November, 2020.
Norman Kappes, President
 Holley M. Rose /s/
Holley M. Rose, Member
David Bultman /s/
David Bultman, Member
                     ATTEST: Tamara Wilhoit /s/
                         Tamara Wilhoit, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Osgood
Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Ripley County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Osgood, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable, as provided in division (B) above, does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-2000)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 33
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
§ 11.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to declare and define the entire
corporate boundaries of the town.
   (B)   The corporate boundary of the town be, and the same is hereby
declared, adopted, and defined to be as follows: Beginning at the southeast
corner of the west half of the northeast quarter of Section 22, Township 8
North, Range 11 East, and running thence northerly along the east half-quarter
line of said Section 22 to the southeast corner of the west half of the
southeast quarter of Section 15, Township 8 North, Range 11 East; thence
continuing northerly along the east half-quarter line of said Section 15 to the
north east corner of the last mentioned west half; thence westerly along the
quarter section line of said Section 15 to the east quarter corner of Section
16, Township 8 North, Range 11 East; thence continuing westerly along the
quarter section line of said Section 16, 346.5 feet; thence southerly, parallel
with the east line of said Section 16, to a point 332.64 feet north of the
south line of said Section 16; thence westerly 958.32 feet to the west line of
the east half of the southeast quarter of said Section 16; thence southerly
with said west line 332.64 feet to the north line of Section 21, Township 8
North, Range 11 East; thence westerly along said north line 264 feet; thence
southerly 1,333.2 feet to the north line of the southwest fourth of the
northeast quarter of Section 21; thence easterly with said north line 264 feet
to the northeast corner of said fourth; thence southerly along east line of
said fourth 1,336.5 feet to its southeast corner; thence easterly along the
quarter section line of said Section 21, 330 feet; thence southerly parallel to
the east line of said Section 21, 2,211 feet; thence easterly parallel to the
south line of said Section 21, 1,023 feet to the east line of said Section 21;
thence northerly with said east line 533.28 feet; thence easterly parallel with
the south line of the aforementioned Section 22, 3,183.18 feet thence northerly
parallel with the north-south quarter line of said Section 22 to the south line
of the northeast quarter of said Section 22; thence easterly on said south line
to the place of beginning.
   (C)   There shall be impounded in a special fund all municipal property
taxes imposed upon the territory annexed by this section for a period of three
years after annexation shall take effect, and said impounded taxes shall be
used solely for the benefit of such annexed territory, its property owners, and
inhabitants in the extension of municipal services and benefits and the making
of municipal or public improvements in the annexed territory.
   (D)   This section was published for two consecutive weeks in the Osgood
Journal, a weekly newspaper of general circulation in the town.
(Ord. 1-1959, passed 10-26-1959)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN ORGANIZATION
      
31.   TOWN POLICIES
      
32.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
34.   FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN ORGANIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Home rule
   
30.02   Council, Clerk-Treasurer elections; terms
Branches of Government
   
30.15   Organization
   
30.16   Legislative and Executive Branch
   
30.17   Fiscal Branch
Organizations
   
30.30   Department of Economic Development
   
30.31   Department of Redevelopment
   
30.32   County Area Planning Commission
   
30.33   Economic Development Advisory Board
   
30.34   Park and Recreation Board abolished
Officials
   
30.45   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.46   Gas Utility Superintendent
   
30.47   Deputy Marshals
   
30.48   Police reserve officers
   
30.49   Clerk-Treasurer assistants
Cross-reference:
   Employees and personnel, see
Ch. 32
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 HOME RULE.
   The express and implied powers included in I.C. 36-1-4-2 through 36-1-4-17
and any incidental powers necessary thereto may be exercised by the town
through its Town Council as follows.
   (A)   If there is a constitutional or statutory provision requiring a
specific manner for exercising a power, the town, by its Town Council, must do
so in that manner.
   (B)   (1)   If there is no constitutional or statutory provision requiring a
specific manner for exercising a power, the town, by its Town Council, must:
         (a)   Comply with a statutory provision permitting a specific manner
for exercising the power; or
         (b)   Exercise the power upon presentation of a proper motion,
followed by a second and finalized by a vote thereon by the Town Council.
      (2)   Documents such as contracts, notes, deeds, and instruments must be
approved by the Town Council, and the presiding and executive officer must be
authorized to execute the same prior to execution thereof. All as done by
presentation of a proper motion, followed by a second and finalized by a vote
thereon by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 1-19-1993)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL, CLERK-TREASURER ELECTIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   (1)   Candidates for the Town Council shall be submitted for election
to all the voters of the town, at large.
      (2)   To be eligible to run for the office of Town Council member, a
person must be a resident of the town, be a citizen of the United States of
America, and be of legal voting age.
      (3)   An officer and member of the Town Council forfeits office if the
member ceases to be a resident of the town.
      (4)   Only persons who are registered voters, as recorded on the
permanent voting records of the county, and who reside within the boundaries of
the town may vote at a town election.
      (5)   The candidates from the major political parties for the offices of
the Town Council members and the Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected in the
primary election held in May of the general election year and not through a
town convention.
   (B)   The terms of office for Town Council members and the Clerk-Treasurer,
which are held in election cycles, shall be as follows.
      (1)   The Town Council member elected in the 1998 general election shall
take office on January 1, 1999, and shall hold office for a term of two years,
ending December 31, 2000.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer elected in the 1999 non-general election shall
take office on January 1, 2000, and shall hold office for a term of one year,
ending December 31, 2000.
      (3)   The remaining Town Council members elected in the 1999 non-general
election shall each take office on January 1, 2000, and shall hold office for
terms of three years each, ending December 31, 2002.
      (4)   All successors to the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council members
elected after the 1998 and 1999 elections shall thereafter be elected to serve
for terms of office of four years.
(Ord. 1993-10, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 1997-23, passed 12-18-1997; Ord. 1997-26,
passed 12-18-1997; Ord. 2006-14, passed 11-30-2006)
BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT
§ 30.15 ORGANIZATION.
   The government of the town shall consist of two branches, those being:
   (A)   The Legislative and Executive Branch; and
   (B)   The Fiscal Branch.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 1-19-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Local government, see I.C. 36-5-2-2, 36-5-6-2
§ 30.16 LEGISLATIVE AND EXECUTIVE BRANCH.
   (A)   The legislative body of the town is the Town Council. The Town Council
shall have exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and appropriate tax monies
received by the town, and to perform other necessary and desirable legislative
functions.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk of the Town Council and shall
perform the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-5-2-8 and such others as the Town
Council may direct.
   (C)   The regular meeting time and date for the Town Council shall be at 7:
00 p.m. on the third Tuesday of each month.
   (D)   The President of the Town Council is the town executive, pursuant to
I.C. 36-5-2-2, and meetings shall be conducted pursuant to the applicable
statutes and in accordance with the following rules, which are hereby adopted
as a part of this section.
      (1)   Order of business. The order of business to be followed at a
meeting of the Town Council shall be as follows:
         (a)   Calling to order;
         (b)   Roll call by Clerk-Treasurer;
         (c)   Reading of minutes and approval;
         (d)   Petitions or comments of citizens;
         (e)   Reports from committees, boards, and commissions;
         (f)   Unfinished business, including ordinances or resolutions already
introduced;
         (g)   New business, including introduction of ordinances and
resolutions;
         (h)   Miscellaneous business, including any matters not already
considered; and
         (i)   Adjournment.
      (2)   Contempt and disorder in the council room. No person shall use
violent or contemptuous language, behave in a disorderly manner, or refuse to
obey the orders of the President in the council room while the Town Council is
in session. The President may order the removal from the council room of anyone
who intentionally disturbs the decorum of a Town Council meeting.
      (3)   Introduction and adoption of ordinances and resolutions. 
         (a)   All ordinances shall be regularly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
at least five days before a regular meeting.
         (b)   All ordinances shall be read one time before being passed, and
no ordinance shall pass on the same day in which it is introduced unless the
provisions of I.C. 36-5-2-9.2, 36-5-2-9.4, 36-5-2-9.6, and 36-5-2-9.8 are
complied with.
         (c)   Resolutions shall be subject to the same rule in method of
introduction and adoption as ordinances.
         (d)   On the passage or adoption of any ordinance or resolution, the
yeas and nays shall be taken and entered in the record and the ordinance shall
be processed in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-10 and I.C. 36-5-2-10.2.
      (4)   Questions of order. The President shall decide all questions of
order. He or she shall decide whether any question submitted to the Town
Council for adoption or rejection is decided in the affirmative or negative.
Robert’s Rules of Order may be referred to in order to resolve issues of order.
      (5)   Appeal from decision of presiding officer. From any decision of the
President, any member may appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be by
motion duly made and seconded. A majority vote as defined in I.C. 36-4-6-11 is
necessary to overrule the chair.
      (6)   Suspension of rules. The order of business may be suspended by two-
thirds vote of the members of the Town Council.
   (E)   The Town Council shall serve as the Board of Public Works and Safety
for the town and shall have control of the day-to-day operations of the
following departments which are hereby established:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Utilities departments consisting of the Sewerage Collection and
Disposal System, the Gas Distribution System, and Water Treatment Distribution
System; and
      (3)   Street and Sanitation Department.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 1-19-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Local government, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 30.17 FISCAL BRANCH.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the town and the head of
the Fiscal Branch. He or she has the powers set forth in I.C. 36-5-6-6 and
shall perform the duties assigned by I.C. 36-5-6-6 and such other duties as the
Town Council may, by ordinance, require.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-7,
to appoint Deputy Clerks-Treasurers for the effective operation of the office,
with the approval of the Town Council. Such deputies shall work under the
exclusive direction of the Clerk-Treasurer and serve at the pleasure of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish space within his or her office for
the administration and records of the town’s utilities. The various Utility
Clerks needed to manage the bookkeeping and administrative requirements of the
utilities shall be appointed and serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer,
who shall have the power to supervise the utility personnel in his or her
office, subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 1-19-1993)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.30 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Economic Development for the
town. Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-12 et seq., said department shall
be under the control of an appointed board to be known as the town’s Economic
Development Commission, which shall have all powers and authority granted by
the above-mentioned statute.
   (B)   (1)   The membership of said Commission shall be as provided by said
statute and shall consist of three members to be appointed by the Town
Executive as follows:
         (a)   One of the members so appointed shall be selected by the Town
Executive;
         (b)   One shall be nominated by the County Council; and
         (c)   One shall be nominated by the Town Council.
      (2)   The nominations and appointments of such Commissioners shall be
made in the manner prescribed by the provisions of I.C. 36-7-12-7. At the
expiration of the respective terms of each of the Commissioners originally
appointed, their respective successors shall be selected, nominated, and
appointed in the same manner as the original appointee and shall serve for a
term of four years. In the event any person appointed as Commissioner fails to
qualify for such office, or if any member after qualifying shall die, resign,
or vacate such office, or be removed as provided in the above-mentioned
statute, a new member shall be chosen and appointed to fill such vacancy in the
same manner as provided for the member in respect to whom such vacancy occurs,
and the member so chosen and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the
vacated term. Commissioners shall hold over after the expiration of their terms
until their respective successors have been duly appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Such Commissioners shall receive no salaries but shall be entitled to
reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties. A Commissioner shall disclose any pecuniary interest in any employment,
financing agreement, or other contract made under the provisions of the
aforementioned statute before any action is taken by the Commission on it and
shall not vote on any such matter. Any property required for the purpose of the
statute in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but
only by gift or condemnation.
   (D)   (1)   Each Commissioner, before entering upon his or her duties, shall
take and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The Commission originally appointed shall meet within 30 days after
its appointment at a time and place designated by the Town Executive for the
purpose of organization, and shall meet to reorganize in February of each
succeeding year.
      (3)   The Commission shall elect one of its members as president, one as
vice-president, and one as secretary, each of which officers shall serve from
the day of his or her election until January 31 of the next following and until
his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (E)   The Town Economic Development Commission is hereby authorized to adopt
such by-laws, rules, and regulations as it may deem necessary for the proper
conduct of its proceedings. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum and the concurrence of the majority shall be necessary to authorize any
action.
   (F)   The Commission is hereby granted all powers and authority provided for
by I.C. 36-7-12 et seq., and shall perform all duties and fulfill all
obligations required by said statute.
(Ord. 5, passed 5-8-2013)
§ 30.31 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment
of the town, which shall be entitled to exercise all the rights, powers,
privileges, and immunities accorded to such department by I.C. 36-7-14, as
amended (the “Redevelopment Act”).
   (B)   Governance. Such Department of Redevelopment shall be under the
control of a board of five voting members to be known as the town’s
Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Commission members.
      (1)   There is hereby created a board to be known as the town’s
Redevelopment Commission (the “Commission”). Three of said members of the
Commission shall be appointed by the President of the Town Council (the
“Council President”) and two shall be appointed by the Town Council. Each
Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from the first day of
January after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the original Commissioners shall serve
from the date of their appointment until the first day of January in the second
year after their appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be
appointed in the same manner as the original Commissioner and the successor
shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
      (2)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall
be promptly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before taking his or her duties,
shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved by the
Council President. The bond must be in a penal sum of $15,000 and must be
conditioned on the faithful performance that may come into his or her hands or
under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the special
taxing district.
   (D)   Qualifications. Such Redevelopment Commissioners shall have the
qualifications prescribed by the laws of the state as from time to time amended
and shall qualify as therein provided. Redevelopment Commissioners shall
exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the duties and obligations
conferred and imposed by the Redevelopment Act including, but not limited to,
the following qualifications.
      (1)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and
must be a resident of the town. If a Redevelopment Commissioner ceases to be
qualified under this section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
      (2)   No Redevelopment Commissioner shall receive a salary, but such
Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (3)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in
any contract, employment, purchase, or sale made under such provisions of this
section and the underlying statutes. However, any property required for
redevelopment purposes in which a Redevelopment Commissioner has a pecuniary
interest may be acquired, but only by gift or condemnation. A transaction made
in violation of this division (D)(3) is void.
   (E)   Non-voting advisor. The Redevelopment Commission shall also have one
non-voting advisor who is appointed by the Council President (the “Advisor”).
The Advisor must also be a member of the school board of a school corporation
that includes all or part of the territory served by the Redevelopment
Commission. The Advisor is not considered a member of the Redevelopment
Commission but is entitled to attend and participate in the proceedings of all
meetings of the Redevelopment Commission. The Advisor is not entitled to a
salary, per diem, or reimbursement of expenses. The Advisor shall serve for two
years from the first day of January after his or her appointment and until his
or her successor is appointed and has qualified, except that the original
Advisor shall serve from the date of his or her appointment until the first day
of January in the second year after his or her appointment.
   (F)   Management of funds. The Clerk-Treasurer, charged by law for the
performance of duties in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall
perform the same duties with respect to the funds and accounts of the
Department of Redevelopment, except as otherwise provided for in the
Redevelopment Act.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 30.32 COUNTY AREA PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Membership. In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-211,
membership of the County Area Planning Commission shall hereafter consist of
those members as set forth herein:
      (1)   Six county representatives designated as follows:
         (a)   The County Agricultural Agent;
         (b)   The County Surveyor;
         (c)   Two citizen members, each of whom is a resident of the
unincorporated area of the county, appointed by the County Executive; and
         (d)   Two citizen members, each of whom is a resident of the
unincorporated area of the county, appointed by the County Fiscal Body.
      (2)   Town representatives designated as follows: one member appointed by
each of the following Town Councils, if the town is a participant in the County
Area Planning Department:
         (a)   The Town Council of Versailles;
         (b)   The Town Council of Osgood;
         (c)   The Town Council of Sunman;
         (d)   The Town Council of Milan;
         (e)   The Town Council of Napoleon; and
         (f)   The Town Council of Holton.
      (3)   The total number of members depends upon the number of towns
participating in the County Area Planning Department. The maximum number of
members is 12.
   (B)   Appointment of citizen members, terms, and removal.
      (1)   The appointments of any citizen members from participating towns
shall accompany the passage and approval of this section. After passage of this
section, appointments shall be made in a timely manner, and for any town
deciding to participate in the County Area Planning Department in the future,
their appointment shall accompany their ordinance to participate.
      (2)   (a)   The initial terms of the citizen members of the County Area
Planning Commission from the participating towns, the County Executive, and the
County Fiscal Body shall be as set forth herein:
            1.   The citizen member appointed by the Town Council of
Versailles: three years;
            2.   The citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Osgood:
four years;
            3.   The citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Sunman:
two years;
            4.   The citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Milan:
three years;
            5.   The citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Napoleon:
two years;
            6.   The citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Holton:
one year;
            7.   The citizen members appointed by the County Executive: one
year and four years; and
            8.   The citizen members appointed by the County Fiscal Body: two
years and three years.
         (b)   Each member’s term expires on the first Monday of January of the
first, second, third, or fourth year, respectively, after the year of the
member’s appointment.
      (3)   When an initial term of office of a citizen member expires, each
new appointment of a citizen member is for a term of four years. A member
serves until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. A member is
eligible for reappointment.
      (4)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-218(f), the
appointing authority may remove a member from the County Area Planning
Commission for cause. The appointing authority must mail notice of the removal,
along with written reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her
residence address. A member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving
notice of the removal, appeal the notice to the county’s circuit court. The
court may, pending the outcome of the appeal, order the removal or stay the
removal of the member.
   (C)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs among the members of the County Area
Planning Commission, the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the
unexpired term of the vacating member.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 2-20-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Organization, see I.C. 36-7-4-218(a), 36-7-4-218(e), 36-7-4-220
§ 30.33 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Town Council and the City Council of Batesville, Indiana, jointly form
an Economic Development Advisory Board with the following provisions.
   (A)   The purpose of said Economic Development Advisory Board is to
establish policies and priorities for the use of UDAG loan repayments from
Hillenbrand Industries which provide maximum potential for the creation of
employment for residents of the town.
   (B)   Said Economic Development Advisory Board shall consist of three
citizens of the town and three citizens of Batesville who will be appointed by,
and serve at the pleasure of, the chief elected official of the respective
communities.
(Res. 1983-7, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 30.34 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD ABOLISHED.
   The town’s Park and Recreation Board is hereby abolished. Any funds
appropriated for its operation are hereby returned to the General Fund and any
equipment under its direction or control be returned to the direction and
control of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1981-5, passed 7-21-1981)
OFFICIALS
§ 30.45 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to pay from the town’s Gas
Department Funds the expenses of purchase of gas and transmission fees, prior
to the regular monthly meeting of the Town Council when necessary, with full
approval thereof submitted to the Town Council at its next monthly regular
meeting.
   (B)   The town, by its Town Council, designates its Clerk-Treasurer to
deposit town monies in those local depositories as designated by the State
Treasurer.
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-
4-12, to pay in advance of Town Council’s allowance any expenses which become
due or on which a discount may be obtained by early payment when such date
occurs between regularly scheduled meetings of the Town Council, such payment
not being otherwise prohibited by law.
      (2)   Such pre-approved payments of claims may include the following
types of expenses:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
            1.   The United States government; or
            2.   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
         (b)   License fees or permit fees;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
         (e)   Federal grant programs if:
            1.   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
            2.   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
         (f)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (g)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
         (h)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
         (i)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
         (j)   Payroll;
         (k)   State, federal, or county taxes;
         (l)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
and
         (m)   A product or service for which the Town Council has accepted a
bid.
      (3)   Each payment of expenses under this division (C) must be supported
by a fully itemized claim.
      (4)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at its next
regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 12-19-1995; Ord. 1997-17, passed 8-19-1997; Ord. 2013-7,
passed 5-21-2013)
§ 30.46 GAS UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Gas Utility Superintendent shall have the authority to make
monthly miscellaneous expenditures of up to $15,000 in advance of obtaining
final approval of the Town Council at its next regularly scheduled monthly
meeting.
   (B)   The Gas Utility Superintendent has the authority to purchase the gas
and to hedge purchases of gas if the majority of the members of the gas
purchasing coalition agree to the hedge prices, and to establish the monthly
gas tracker and gas cost adjustment factors to be applied to the current gas
utility rates and charges with the following guidelines in mind.
      (1)   Establishing an adequate cash reserve for gas line extensions,
improvements, repairs, and maintenance, with a goal of attracting businesses to
the town for purposes of economic development and employment.
      (2)   To maintain the lowest possible gas utility rates and charges to
the customers of the town gas utility, with the understanding that the large
commercial users purchase a significant amount of natural gas on a year-round
basis.
      (3)   To stabilize the gas utility costs to its customers throughout the
year, understanding that the residential customers’ gas utilization is
dependent upon seasonable usage, whereas commercial customers’ utilization is
year-round.
(Res. 2008-5, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 30.47 DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-7-6, as amended by P.L. 51-1999, the town shall have
no more than two full-time Deputy Marshals.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-20-1999)
§ 30.48 POLICE RESERVE OFFICERS.
   The town may provide up to a maximum of four police reserve officers to
assist its municipal Police Department in the performance of its duties.
Reserve officers shall be appointed by the Town Council serving as the Board of
Public Works and Safety for the town.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 30.49 CLERK-TREASURER ASSISTANTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer has the authority to appoint one deputy and one employee
for the operation of the office.
(Res. 1998-5, passed 4-21-1998)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   National Incident Management System
   
31.02   Countywide All Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
31.03   Disability Assistance Policy
   
31.04   ADA accessibility guidelines
   
31.05   ADA coordinator and procedures
   
31.06   Minimum internal control standards and procedures; determining
materiality threshold
   
31.07   Conflict of interest policy
§ 31.01 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System dated
March 1, 2004.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 31.02 COUNTYWIDE ALL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Countywide All Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as an official
plan of the town.
(Res. 2009-5, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 31.03 DISABILITY ASSISTANCE POLICY.
   The town has determined that the Disability Assistance Policy satisfactorily
addresses the need to provide access to persons with disabilities. The town
does herewith adopt and approve this Disability Assistance Policy for the town.
(Res. 1994-9, passed 5-17-1994)
§ 31.04 ADA ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES.
   The town hereby adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities (ADA) Standards
for Accessible Design (ADAAG) and the 2011 Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities
in the Public Right-of-Way (PROWAG) and will adhere to any subsequent
revisions.
(Res. 2016-6, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 31.05 ADA COORDINATOR AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town Street Superintendent is designated as the ADA Coordinator
for the town.
   (B)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy of which
is posted to the town’s website, is adopted as the Town of Osgood Notice under
the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (C)   The Town of Osgood ADA Grievance Procedure under the Americans with
Disabilities Act, a copy of which is attached to town Resolution 2016-7, is
adopted as the grievance procedure for addressing complaints alleging
discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision of services,
activities, programs or benefits by the town.
   (D)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the Town
Council resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA
Coordinator, notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and Town of
Osgood Grievance Procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act on its
website http://www.osgoodindiana.org/ and at such other locations as may be
determined from time to time.
(Res. 2016-7, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 31.06 MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES; DETERMINING
MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the
“Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions” manual,
are hereby adopted by the town, and that town personnel receive training
concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby adopted.
   (B)   The town establishes the following materiality policy under I.C. 5-11-
1-10, 5-11-1-21, and 5-11-1-27:
Materiality, in the Town of Osgood, Indiana Government, is defined as $150 per
occurrence. That is, if one occurrence of a loss or shortage or other
irregularity is equal or greater than $150, it must be reported to the State
Board of Accounts. The materiality definition is not limited to defalcations or
suspicious activity involving only cash or cash transactions. If supplies,
equipment or other fixed assets belonging to the town are suspected of being
misappropriated or stolen or used in a manner not authorized by town officials
and the value of those supplies, equipment or fixed assets are approximately
$150, that misuse or series of misuse should be reported. That is not to say
that if a loss or shortage is less than $150 it should be ignored. If there is
a series of events, within the same office or department that appears to be a
structuring event to defraud or misappropriate town funds or property, that
event or series of events should be reported.
   (C)   All erroneous or irregular material variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall be reported immediately
to the State Board of Accounts. For all material variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts, the State Board of Accounts shall:
      (1)   Determine the amount of funds involved and report the amount to the
appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
      (2)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to or
caused the conditions; and
      (3)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body or
appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
         (a)   The method of correcting the condition; and
         (b)   The necessary internal control policies and internal control
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1), a political subdivision, elected
official or employee of the town that has actual knowledge of or reasonable
cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation of public funds shall
immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the SBOA and the
Prosecuting Attorney of Ripley County, Indiana regardless of the dollar amount,
(i.e. there is no materiality threshold amount). Misappropriation occurs when
an employee or in-house contractor of the political subdivision wrongly takes
or embezzles public funds.
   (E)   The Town of Osgood, Indiana Ethics Policy/Internal Control/Materiality
Declaration regarding establishment of a policy on materiality and a process
for reporting material items, which was reviewed and approved by the town on
June 21, 2016, is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 31.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the conflict of interest policy is to protect
the interest of the Town of Osgood ("town") when it is contemplating entering
into a transaction or arrangement that might benefit the private interest of an
elected official, employee, or appointee or might result in a possible excess
benefit transaction. This policy is intended to supplement but not replace any
applicable state and federal laws governing conflict of interest applicable to
towns.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FINANCIAL INTEREST.
         (a)   A person has a financial interest if the person has, directly or
indirectly, through business, investment, or family:
            1.   An ownership or investment interest in any entity with which
the town has a transaction or arrangement;
            2.   A compensation arrangement with the town or with any entity or
individual with which the town has a transaction or arrangement; or
            3.   A potential ownership or investment interest in, or
compensation arrangement with, any entity or individual with which the town is
negotiating a transaction or arrangement. Compensation includes direct and
indirect remuneration as well as gifts or favors that are not insubstantial.
         (b)   A FINANCIAL INTEREST is not necessarily a conflict of interest.
Under division (C)(2) below, a person who has a financial interest may have a
conflict of interest only if the appropriate governing board or committee
decides that a conflict of interest exists.
      INTERESTED PERSON. Any elected official, employee, or appointee who has a
direct or indirect financial interest, as defined below, is an interested
person.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Duty to disclose. In connection with any actual or possible
conflict of interest, an interested person must disclose the existence of the
financial interest and be given the opportunity to disclose all material facts
to the Town Council (hereinafter "governing board").
      (2)   Determining whether a conflict of interest exists. After disclosure
of the financial interest and all material facts, and after any discussion with
the interested person, he/she shall leave the governing board while the
determination of a conflict of interest is discussed and voted upon. The
remaining board members shall decide if a conflict of interest exists.
      (3)   Procedures for addressing the conflict of interest.
         (a)   An interested person may make a presentation at the governing
board meeting, but after the presentation, he/she shall leave the meeting
during the discussion of, and the vote on, the transaction or arrangement
involving the possible conflict of interest.
         (b)   The president of the governing board or committee shall, if
appropriate, appoint a disinterested person or committee to investigate
alternatives to the proposed transaction or arrangement.
         (c)   After exercising due diligence, the governing board shall
determine whether the town can obtain with reasonable efforts a more
advantageous transaction or arrangement from a person or entity that would not
give rise to a conflict of interest.
         (d)   If a more advantageous transaction or arrangement is not
reasonably possible under circumstances not producing a conflict of interest,
the governing board or committee shall determine by a majority vote of the
disinterested members whether the transaction or arrangement is in the town's
best interest, for its own benefit, and whether it is fair and reasonable. In
conformity with the above determination it shall make its decision as to
whether to enter into the transaction or arrangement.
      (4)   Violations of the conflicts of interest policy.
         (a)   If the governing board has reasonable cause to believe a member
has failed to disclose actual or possible conflicts of interest, it shall
inform the member of the basis for such belief and afford the member an
opportunity to explain the alleged failure to disclose.
         (b)   If, after hearing the member's response and after making further
investigation as warranted by the circumstances, the governing board or
committee determines the member has failed to disclose an actual or possible
conflict of interest, it shall take appropriate disciplinary and corrective
action.
   (D)   Records of proceedings. The minutes of the governing board shall
contain:
      (1)   The names of the persons who disclosed or otherwise were found to
have a financial interest in connection with an actual or possible conflict of
interest, the nature of the financial interest, any action taken to determine
whether a conflict of interest was present, and the governing board's decision
as to whether a conflict of interest in fact existed.
      (2)   The names of the persons who were present for discussions and votes
relating to the transaction or arrangement, the content of the discussion,
including any alternatives to the proposed transaction or arrangement, and a
record of any votes taken in connection with the proceedings.
   (E)   Compensation.
      (1)   A voting member of the governing board who receives compensation,
directly or indirectly, from the town for services is precluded from voting on
matters pertaining to that member's compensation.
      (2)   A voting member of any committee whose jurisdiction includes
compensation matters and who receives compensation, directly or indirectly,
from the town for services is precluded from voting on matters pertaining to
that member's compensation.
      (3)   No voting member of the governing board or any committee whose
jurisdiction includes compensation matters and who receives compensation,
directly or indirectly, from the town, either individually or collectively, is
prohibited from providing information to any committee regarding compensation.
   (F)   Annual statements.
      (1)   Each elected official, employee, or appointee of town shall sign a
statement which affirms such person:
         (a)   Has received a copy of the conflicts of interest policy;
         (b)   Has read and understands the policy;
         (c)   Has agreed to comply with the policy; and
         (d)   Understands the town in order to maintain its federal tax
exemption it must engage primarily in activities which accomplish one or more
of its tax exempt purposes.
      (2)   The town shall submit a disclosure of planned or potential
transactions related to the use of federal funds that may constitute or present
the appearance of personal or organizational conflicts of interest.
   (G)   Periodic reviews. To ensure the town operates in a manner consistent
with its purposes and does not engage in activities that could jeopardize its
tax-exempt status, periodic reviews shall be conducted. The periodic reviews
shall, at a minimum, include the following subjects:
      (1)   Whether compensation arrangements and benefits are reasonable,
based on competent survey information, and the result of arm's length
bargaining;
      (2)   Whether partnerships, joint ventures, and arrangements with
management organizations conform to the town's written policies, are properly
recorded, reflect reasonable investment or payments for goods and services,
further the town's purposes and do not result in inurement, impermissible
private benefit or in an excess benefit transaction.
   (H)   Use of outside experts. When conducting the periodic reviews as
provided for in division (G) above, the town may, but need not, use outside
advisors. If outside experts are used, their use shall not relieve the
governing board of its responsibility for ensuring periodic reviews are
conducted.
(Res. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017)
CHAPTER 32: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Town employees/Volunteer Fire Department members
   
32.02   Reimbursement for milage
   
32.03   Reimbursement for expenses
   
32.04   Public Employees’ Retirement Fund
Personnel Policy
   
32.15   Scope
   
32.16   Town Council
   
32.17   Employee responsibilities
   
32.18   Hiring and promotions
   
32.19   Hours of employment
   
32.20   Holidays
   
32.21   Vacations
   
32.22   Other time off; leave
   
32.23   Discipline, dismissal, or discharge
   
32.24   Grievance procedure
   
32.25   Municipal vehicle operation policy
   
32.26   Longevity pay
Drug Free Workplace and Substance Abuse Policy
   
32.35   Overview
   
32.36   Policy
   
32.37   Prohibited drugs
   
32.38   Alcohol
   
32.39   Reporting violations
   
32.40   Employee rehabilitation
   
32.41   Testing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 TOWN EMPLOYEES/VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   Employees of the town who serve as members of the town’s Volunteer Fire
Department are allowed to respond to fire and emergency calls of the town’s
Volunteer Fire Department and Task Unit I during said employee’s working hours
at the town, without loss of compensation therefor.
(Ord. 1998-16, passed 11-17-1998)
§ 32.02 REIMBURSEMENT FOR MILAGE.
   A mileage payment equal to the mileage payment established by the County
Commissioners for county official and employee use of their personal vehicles
on county business shall be established and adopted as the town’s mileage
payment. Said mileage payment shall be paid to the town officials and employees
for use of their personal vehicles while performing the functions of the town
and said mileage rate to be paid upon presentation of a properly executed claim
therefor, documenting the miles traveled and purpose thereof.
(Ord. 1997-22, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 32.03 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund to pay the expenses of, or to reimburse, town officials, as
the case may be, for expenses incurred in promoting the best interests of the
town. Such expenses may include, but are not necessarily limited to, rental of
meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in
interviewing job applicants, expenses incurred in promoting industrial,
commercial, and residential development, expenses incurred in developing
relations with other units of government, and any other expenses of a civic or
government nature deemed by the Town Council to be in the interest of the town.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 4-18-1995)
§ 32.04 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council elects to become a participant in the Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund as established by the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340, and
all acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The Town Council agrees to make the required contributions under the
Public Employees’ Retirement Fund Act, being I.C. 5-10.3-1-1 et seq., and all
acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto; including specifically the
Indiana Public Employees’ Social Security Integration and Supplemental
Retirement Benefits Act, being I.C. 5-10.2-1 et seq.
   (C)   The following are declared to be covered by the Fund: Clerk-Treasurer,
Gas Superintendent, Gas Operator, Water Plant Superintendent, Water Plant
Operators, Sewer Plant Superintendent, Sewer Plant Operators, Town Manager,
Marshal, Laborers, Street Superintendent, Deputy Clerk-Treasurer, and Deputy
Marshal.
   (D)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified in division (C) above are compensated on a fee basis or of an
emergency nature, or in a part-time category.
   (E)   The active participating membership of the town shall begin on January
1, 1983.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby appointed the designated signatory and
representative for the town in order to sign all documents on behalf of the
town necessary to enable the employees of said town to join and maintain
membership in the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund for the state.
(Res. 1982-2, passed 10-19-1982; Res. 1984-2, passed 7-17-1984; Res. 4, passed
11-20-1990)
PERSONNEL POLICY
§ 32.15 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to all employees of the town.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.16 TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council has the authority and responsibility on behalf of the
public to manage and direct the operations and activities of the town to the
full extent authorized by law.
   (B)   Such authority and responsibility shall include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   Direct and oversee the work of its employees;
      (2)   Establish policies;
      (3)   Hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, and retain employees;
      (4)   Discipline, lay-off, suspend, or discharge its employees in
accordance with applicable law;
      (5)   Maintain the efficiency of its public operations;
      (6)   Relieve its employees from duties because of lack of work or other
legitimate reason; and
      (7)   Take actions necessary to carry out the lawful functions of the
town as provided by law.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.17 EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Town employees have the responsibility to:
      (1)   Report to work on time; and
      (2)   Properly execute instructions or directions of the Town Council and
their department supervisors, and perform their duties in a manner which
contributes to the efficiency of public operations and the improvement of
service to the public.
   (B)   In no case shall the outside employment of a town employee be
permitted to interfere with said employee’s town duties either in terms of a
conflict of interest or in physical or mental capabilities, nor shall any such
activity reflect adversely on the town.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.18 HIRING AND PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   The town shall recruit and hire without regard to race, color, creed,
religion, age, sex, national origin, or physical or mental disability. When
employment vacancies occur, preference may be given to current town employees
who possess the qualifications necessary to fill the vacant position.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the town, a job cannot be filled by promotion
from within, recruitment will be handled in the following manner.
      (1)   Advertisements relating to job openings in area newspapers or other
publications, utilization of other available media including radio, public
notice, or utilization of employment security services may be used to obtain
applicants. Advertisements shall include the statement, “an equal opportunity
employer”, or such other solicitation as the Town Council deems appropriate and
consistent with the above-stated policy.
      (2)   The town will screen each applicant for a particular position using
the following criteria, except where said criteria cannot be shown to be job-
related or constitutes a violation of state or federal law:
         (a)   Prior job-related work experience;
         (b)   Education;
         (c)   Work history or experience;
         (d)   Physical ability required for the position;
         (e)   Applicant’s ambitions and goals;
         (f)   Special qualifications, licenses, or certification required by
the position;
         (g)   Unusual circumstances in the applicant’s personal history; and
         (h)   Compliance with applicable law.
      (3)   No applicant will be hired who is a relative of a current town
employee, Town Council member, or Clerk-Treasurer. RELATIVE shall include
spouses, parents, siblings, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and in-laws. Should
current town employees marry during their employment with the town, the town
may request one of said employees to resign. In no event shall a relative be
allowed to supervise a relative employee.
      (4)   The town reserves the right to verify, by background check,
information given by an applicant as to job history, education, experience,
qualifications, and criminal record. Applicants will be required to sign a
consent to background check to be considered for the job.
      (5)   The town may require an employee to maintain residence in the town
as a condition of employment if such residence is essential to the conduct of
the employee’s job.
      (6)   (a)   A probationary employee is given a trial working period which
is part of the selection process, during which time the employee’s work and
conduct shall be under close observation for the purpose of determining his or
her suitability and qualification for regular employment in the position.
During this period of time, the employee will be considered a probationary
employee.
         (b)   The probationary period for non-police employees shall last for
a duration of 90 work days. During the 90-day probationary period, the
employee’s supervisor shall observe the employee’s performance and evaluate and
report to the Town Council in writing his or her observations concerning the
probationary employee. The Town Council may discharge or remove an employee at
any time during the probationary period when it determines that the employee is
unable or unwilling to perform the duties of the position in a satisfactory
manner, or that the employee’s habits and dependability do not merit continued
employment, or where an error or misrepresentation was made in the application
process. No matter or action concerning the discipline, lay-off, or termination
of a probationary employee shall be subject to the employee grievance
procedure.
         (c)   The probationary period for police employees shall last for a
period of one year.
         (d)   An employee serving a probationary period following a promotion
from within shall be considered a regular employee.
         (e)   Probationary employees are entitled to reserve and national
guard duty leave without pay, bereavement leave without pay, civic leave, and
leave without pay as defined in §
32.22; however, the sections covering paid vacations, personal time off, leave,
reserve or national guard duty, and maternity leave, do not apply to
probationary employees.
         (f)   If it is necessary for an employee to obtain certification for
his or her position, the required certification must be timely obtained within
the time frame and requirements of the certification.
      (7)   (a)   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES are employees whose employment with the
town is anticipated to be of comparatively short duration or time. An employee
who gained employment with the town via a federal, state, or county program
designated to provide emergency and/or short-term employment shall be
considered a temporary employee.
         (b)   Sections of this subchapter concerning vacation, personal time
off leave, reserve or national guard duty, maternity leave, bereavement leave,
and holiday pay shall not apply to temporary employees, except as provided by
state or federal law. Temporary employees may be granted leave without pay only
because of extraordinary reasons sufficient in the opinion of the Town Council
to warrant such leave of absence.
      (8)   (a)   A REGULAR EMPLOYEE is one who has been retained in his or her
assigned job following the initial 90-day probationary period. Regular
employees will be evaluated at least once a year by their department
supervisors on forms provided therefor. Department supervisors shall be
evaluated at least once annually by the Town Council on forms provided
therefor.
         (b)   Regular employees shall be entitled to the rights and benefits
set forth in this subchapter.
         (c)   All employees of the town shall be expected to perform the
duties, tasks, and responsibilities as set forth in the individual job
descriptions adopted by the town.
      (9)   The Town Council shall review the compensation levels of all
employees at least annually.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.19 HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The town’s workday shall be a period of 24 hours commencing and ending
at midnight. The workweek shall consist of seven consecutive days beginning 12:
01 a.m. Monday morning. Employees will normally be expected to work eight hours
during the workday and 40 hours during the workweek. However, the Town Council
may require certain employees to work fewer hours. This provision shall not be
construed as a guarantee of hours of work or pay. Actual hours of employment
shall be established with flexibility by the department supervisors subject to
review by the Town Council.
   (B)   Each employee is expected to observe his or her assigned hours of
work. If an employee will be delayed or absent from work for any reason,
advance notice shall be given to his or her supervisor. After an employee has
been absent from work and is ready to return to work, he or she shall notify
his or her supervisor at least 24 hours in advance. Tardiness will result in a
loss of pay to the nearest quarter hour. Salaried employees shall have their
salary prorated on an hourly basis for the purposes of this division (B).
   (C)   There shall be a mandatory lunch break in the eight-hour work period
of at least 30 minutes. This lunch break shall be unpaid. Employees shall be
allowed one 15-minute rest break for every four hours of work. Such break shall
not interfere with current work in progress.
   (D)   The department supervisors shall keep accurate records of the hours
and the times that employees report to work, the number of hours an employee
works during the day, and the number of days an employee works during the week.
No overtime shall be allowed unless approved by the department supervisor.
   (E)   A non-police employee who actually works more than 40 hours during the
workweek shall be compensated for every hour worked over 40 at the rate of one
and one-half times the hourly rate for his or her position. The Clerk-Treasurer
is hereby authorized to pay amounts documented as overtime in excess of 40
hours actually worked per week.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.20 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   An employee shall receive his or her regular pay for each of the
below-listed holidays: New Year’s Day; any national, state, or town primary
election; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; any national, state, or
town general election; Thanksgiving Day; and the day after Christmas Day.
   (B)   If any of the listed holidays in division (A) above falls on a
Saturday, the holiday will be observed on the immediately preceding Friday. If
any of the listed holidays in division (A) above falls on a Sunday, the holiday
will be observed on the immediately succeeding Monday.
   (C)   If an employee is required to work on any of the listed holidays in
division (A) above, he or she shall be paid his or her regular compensation and
in addition thereto shall be paid up to eight hours of additional compensation
at his or her regular pay rate; provided, however, that said employee shall
have worked the immediately preceding scheduled workday prior to said holiday
and the next succeeding scheduled workday subsequent to said holiday, unless
previously excused for vacation leave or an excused illness. Hours worked on
holidays over eight hours shall be paid as overtime.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.21 VACATIONS.
   (A)   After completion of one full year of regular employment with the town,
an employee shall be entitled to five workdays of vacation leave with pay
during the year. After completion of three full years of regular employment
with the town, an employee shall be entitled to ten workdays of vacation leave
with pay during a year. After completion of ten full years of regular
employment with the town, an employee shall be entitled to 15 workdays of
vacation leave with pay during the year. Vacation leave must be used by the end
of the calendar year and any unused vacation leave may not be accumulated from
year to year, with the exception that in 2021, due to the COVID-19 crisis, ten
days of vacation may be carried over to the 2022 calendar year. Vacation leave
for employees working less than 40 hours per week shall be paid pursuant to the
above guidelines on a pro-rata basis. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue paychecks
for vacation pay at the regularly scheduled pay dates.
   (B)   If an employee dies, resigns, or is terminated on or after his or her
anniversary date of employment, the employee shall be entitled to payment for
accrued vacation leave.
   (C)   Vacation leave shall be scheduled and approved by the department
supervisor in advance and in accordance with the town’s needs, and with regard
to the employee’s job seniority within the particular department in which said
employee works. The Town Council shall make every attempt to respect the
vacation requests of the employees consistent with those needs. Department
supervisors shall notify the Town Council as to proposed vacation leaves.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996; Ord. 2021-7, passed - -)
§ 32.22 OTHER TIME OFF; LEAVE.
   (A)   Personal time off. Personal time off leave consists of six days per
year, accrued at the rate of one work day for every two months of employment
with the town. These days may also be used as sick days. Personal time off
leave days must be used by the end of the calendar year and may not be
accumulated from year to year. Compensation for personal time off leave days
will be at the employee’s current pay rate. If an employee dies, resigns, or is
terminated on or after his or her anniversary date of employment, the employee
shall be entitled to payment for accrued personal time off leave. Conversely,
if an employee has used his or her personal time off prior to its accrual, then
said unearned, unaccrued personal time off will be deducted from the employee’s
final pay check.
   (B)   Reserve or national guard duty. Any employee who serves as a member of
any reserve component of the armed forces of the United States shall be
entitled to leave while he or she is engaged in performance of his or her
official duty or training. While on such leave, he or she shall be paid his or
her regular pay, less his or her military pay received, for a maximum of ten
working days in any one calendar year. To receive compensation an employee
must, upon return to employment, present certification from the employee’s
commanding officer of the performance of the duty.
   (C)   Bereavement leave. If there is a death in the employee's immediate
family (defined to be the employee's spouse, child, step-child, parent/step-
parent or spouse's parent/step-parent), leave with pay for the attendance of
necessary funeral matters will be allowed, provided that the total absence from
work does not exceed three consecutive calendar days. If there is a death in
the employee's non-immediate family (defined to be brother/sister, spouse of a
brother/sister, child of a brother/sister, spouse of a child, grandparent, or
grandchild), the employee shall be entitled to leave with pay for one day for
attendance of necessary funeral matters.
   (D)   Maternity leave. An employee who is unable to work because of
pregnancy, delivery and recent confinement, or other pregnancy-related cause
shall, upon the employee’s request, be granted up to 12 weeks of leave without
pay. However, all approved personal time off leave and vacation leave days will
be applied to the maternity leave for purposes of pay.
   (E)   Civic leave.
      (1)   An employee who is required to serve as juror shall be excused from
work for the days on which he or she serves and shall receive, for each such
day of said service on which he or she otherwise would have worked, his or her
regular pay. The employee shall present proof of service (summons) and the
amount of payment received from the Clerk of the Court. If an employee is
released from jury duty by the court prior to his or her regularly scheduled
lunch hour, he or she shall report to work within one hour after being released
by the court.
      (2)   An employee who serves as personnel for emergency services shall be
paid for performing said services during the employee’s scheduled workday.
However, town employees shall not leave his or her town duties if:
         (a)   He or she is the sole employee working at his or her respective
utility plant;
         (b)   His or her absence will leave or create a hazardous condition
for the town; or
         (c)   There exists an emergency situation involving the town.
   (F)   Leaves of absence. An employee may, upon application in writing and
upon approval of the Town Council, request a continuous leave of absence
without pay for a period not to exceed three months for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Physical disability of the employee;
      (2)   The employee is entering a course of training or study for the
purpose of improving the quality of his or her service to the town or of
fitting himself or herself for promotion, in which case 30 days prior notice is
required; or
      (3)   Other extraordinary reasons warranting such leave, subject to
determination by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996; Ord. 2022-1, passed 5-17-2022)
§ 32.23 DISCIPLINE, DISMISSAL, OR DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Non-police employees of the town are considered at-will employees, may
be dismissed or discharged for any reason, and serve at the pleasure of the
town. The Town Council, however, realizes that the discipline, discharge, or
dismissal of regular non-police employees should be for good cause or the best
interests of the town as determined by said Town Council. GOOD CAUSE includes,
but is specifically not limited to the following: insubordination, neglect of
duty, excessive absenteeism, immoral conduct, continuing incapacity, theft, use
of illegal drugs or alcohol while on duty, commission of a criminal act
involving dishonesty or moral turpitude, or other like instances of misconduct.
   (B)   The town may discipline, dismiss, or discharge non-police employees
without prior notice to said employee other than that the matter will be acted
upon at the next Town Council meeting. An employee may, within three days of
said notice, request to meet in executive session with the Town Council to
review the matter. Failure to request said executive session shall constitute
waiver of all claims of illegal or wrongful dismissal, discharge, or
termination. Employees who are dismissed or discharged are entitled to all
accrued vacation leave and personal time off leave pay, as defined in §§
32.21 and
32.22, as of the date of said dismissal or discharge.
   (C)   When the Town Council determines that disciplinary action with respect
to a minor breach is appropriate, it shall issue an oral warning to the
employee for a first breach or a written reprimand for any second breach, which
shall become part of said employee’s personnel file. After the second breach,
more severe disciplinary action including reduction in pay, demotion,
suspension, dismissal, or discharge may be taken for any further breach of
discipline. The Town Council shall maintain written copies in the employee’s
personnel record of all disciplinary, dismissal, or discharge actions taken
against the affected employee.
   (D)   To resign in good standing, an employee must submit his or her
resignation in writing through his or her department supervisor with at least
two weeks’ prior notification before the effective date of resignation.
Employees who resign in good standing are entitled to all accrued vacation
leave and personal time off leave pay, as defined in §§
32.21 and
32.22. An employee who is absent for three consecutive workdays without prior
notification to his or her department supervisor or without a valid reason
being provided upon request of the Town Council, and who has no legitimate
reason for not notifying the town of his or her absence, may be considered as
having resigned.
   (E)   Employees may be laid-off or demoted by reason of lack of work or
funding, or by the abolishment of the employee’s position. The order in which
employees are laid-off or demoted shall be determined in accordance with the
interests and efficiency of public operations as determined by the Town
Council. Insofar as practicable, the Town Council will give at least one week’s
advance notice of such lay-offs or demotion. Employees who are laid-off are
entitled to all accrued vacation leave and personal time off leave pay, as
defined in §§
32.21 and
32.22.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.24 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   An employee who feels that he or she has been unfairly treated regarding his
or her employment with the town should:
   (A)   Step one. Present the grievance orally to his or her department
supervisor within seven working days of the occurrence of the action giving
rise to the grievance. The supervisor shall meet with the employee and make
every effort to resolve the grievance within three working days of the date of
presentation of the grievance to the supervisor. The supervisor shall respond
orally to said employee in regard to the grievance;
   (B)   Step two. If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved by
step one, a written detailed appeal may be prepared, dated, and signed by the
employee and presented to the employee’s department supervisor within three
working days after receipt of the supervisor’s oral response, as set forth in
step one. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the supervisor shall attempt to
resolve the grievance and shall reply in writing to the employee within five
working days of the date of presentation of the written appeal to the
supervisor; and
   (C)   Step three. If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in
step two, the written appeal, all pertinent correspondence, and the
supervisor’s written response may be presented to the Town Council within five
working days of the employee’s receipt of the written reply from step two. An
investigation shall be conducted by the Town Council and a written final
decision shall be made within ten working days of the date of presentation of
the written appeal to the Town Council. The decision of the Town Council shall
be deemed final and binding upon both parties. Failure of an employee to submit
his or her appeal within the time limits specified herein will result in the
town considering the matter as settled and resolved.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 32.25 MUNICIPAL VEHICLE OPERATION POLICY.
   See “Exhibit A” attached to Ordinance 2022-6 and hereby incorporated by
reference.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 32.26 LONGEVITY PAY.
   (A)   All full-time employees of the town shall receive a longevity stipend
in the amount of $500 after five years of employment with the town. For each
additional year of full-time employment after the fifth anniversary, said
employee shall receive a longevity stipend in the amount of $500 plus $100 for
each year of full-time employment after their initial five years of employment.
All longevity stipend payments shall be made the November following the
anniversary of the employee’s hire date.
   (B)   For former part-time employees who are hired as full-time employees,
the years completed as prior part-time employees shall not count towards
calculating longevity pay.
   (C)   If an employee moves from full-time to part-time employment,
eligibility ceases. Return to full-time employment will recommence a new five
year period before eligibility.
   (D)   If an employee retires with a PERF eligible retirement after working
six months of their final anniversary year, they will be paid 100% of their
longevity stipend.
   (E)   If an employee retires without meeting the criteria in division (D) of
this section, resigns, or is terminated prior to completing their final
anniversary year, no longevity pay is earned.
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 12-19-2023)
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
§ 32.35 OVERVIEW.
   The Town of Osgood, Indiana, makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the town and its employees. Since the town values each employee,
the town offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse
problems.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 32.36 POLICY.
   (A)   The Town of Osgood requires all employees to report for work in a
condition that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient
manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol
or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 32.37 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120 and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substances which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 32.38 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town premises,
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for town business is never authorized.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 32.39 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity may
be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee's actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town's reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 32.40 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual's responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this subchapter or any other town policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 32.41 TESTING.
   (A)   The Town of Osgood, Indiana will not ask employees to submit to random
alcohol or drug tests.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse.
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the town.
      (3)   When required by law.
   (C)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/or
job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor (with
the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (D)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 9-15-2020)
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Establishment
   
33.02   Clerk’s authority
   
33.03   Right to trial
   
33.04   Scope of enforcement
   
33.05   Schedule of fines
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 33-36-2-1, the town establishes the Ordinance
Violations Bureau and, pursuant to I.C. 33-36-3-1, designates Dana Row as its
Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk.
   (B)   The town, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, establishes the Ordinance
Violations Bureau as its administrative body for enforcement of its ordinances
that restrict or prohibit actions that are harmful to land, air, or water;
govern the use of the public way; or govern the standing or parking of
vehicles.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 33.02 CLERK’S AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 33-36-2-3, said Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk may
accept written appearances, waivers of trials, admissions of violations, and
payment of civil penalties of up to $250 as set forth in ordinances adopted by
the Town Council.
   (B)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk shall serve as the hearing
officer for purposes of determination of a violation of an ordinance, by a
preponderance of the evidence, and imposition of a penalty of not more than
$2,500.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 33.03 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance violation is entitled to a trial
before a court as provided by law, unless that person waives the right to trial
and enters an admission of the violation with the Ordinance Violations Bureau
Clerk.
   (B)   A person charged with a violation who wants to invoke the right to
trial shall appear before the Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk and deny the
violation or enter a written denial with the Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 33.04 SCOPE OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, those sections to be enforced by the Ordinance
Violations Bureau as administrative body for the town are as follows:
   (A)   Section 91.32;
   (B)   Section 53.01;
   (C)   Section 91.31; and
   (D)   Sections 91.15 through 91.19.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 33.05 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   The schedule of fines established in Ord. 2009-15 is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-15-2009)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES
Section
Funds
   
34.01   Sewage Utility Depreciation Fund
   
34.02   Gas Utility Depreciation Fund
   
34.03   Police Department Fund
   
34.04   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.05   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.06   Regional Revenue Sharing Fund
   
34.07   Town Hall Fund
   
34.08   Economic Development Fund
   
34.09   LOIT Special Distribution
   
34.10   Community Crossing Matching Grant Fund
   
34.11   Credit Card Service Fee/Utility Payment Clearing Fund
   
34.12   Sidewalk Maintenance Fund
   
34.13   American Rescue Plan Nonreverting Fund No. 176
   
34.14   Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund
Fees
   
34.20   Fees for accident reports and handgun permits
   
34.21   Check return fee
   
34.22   Town employee charges
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
34.35   Definitions
   
34.36   Provisions
   
34.37   Recording and accounting
   
34.38   Safeguarding assets
Purchasing Policy
   
34.50   Designation of purchasing agency and purchasing agent
   
34.51   Purchasing rules
   
34.52   Purchasing policies
Tax Abatement Program
   
34.65   Decision guidelines
   
34.66   Revocation of tax abatement by Town Council
   
34.67   Granting tax abatement
   
34.68   Financial incentives
FUNDS
§ 34.01 SEWAGE UTILITY DEPRECIATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the town’s Sewage Utility Depreciation Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be used exclusively for the payment of the cost of
improvements and replacements to the sewage works as a result of depreciation
of the works.
   (C)   The sum of $1,000 per month shall be paid into the Fund for such
purposes beginning with the rates and charges of the sewage utility collection
in December, 1986.
(Ord. 1986-6, passed 12-16-1986)
§ 34.02 GAS UTILITY DEPRECIATION FUND.
   The Gas Utility Depreciation Fund Number 617 shall be used as a revolving
fund to accumulate gas revenues to pay for repairs and maintenance of the gas
distribution system and for future expansion of the system, up to a total
reserve of $300,000.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 34.03 POLICE DEPARTMENT FUND.
   The town shall establish within its Police Department Fund, Fund Numbered
250 to be utilized for those confidential purposes, and to be administered
pursuant to the guidelines and policies attached to Ord. 2009-6.
(Ord. 2009-6, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 34.04 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established the town’s Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and revenues from the
levy will be retained in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)    The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund will
be used for all statutorily authorized purposes under I.C. 36-9-15.5-2, and the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund is re-established for the years 2021, 2022
and 2023 with the tax rate of $0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation and as
set forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5-6(b).
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, funds accumulated in the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (C) above if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action.
      (2)   Money may be spent under the authority of division (D)(1) above
only after the Town Council President issues a declaration that the public
health, welfare, or safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure
of money from the Fund.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 4-19-2011; Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.05 RAINY DAY FUND.
   The town hereby establishes the Rainy Day Fund that shall be used for all
purposes authorized under state law.
(Ord. 2004-8, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 34.06 REGIONAL REVENUE SHARING FUND.
   (A)   The town establishes the Regional Revenue Sharing Fund for receipt of
revenues under the interlocal cooperation agreement, which Fund is to be
administered by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Said Fund shall be used for purposes of economic development, capital
improvements, and to support the development of southeastern Indiana.
   (C)   Said Fund shall not be available or used to reduce the town’s maximum
or actual tax levy.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 34.07 TOWN HALL FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall create and maintain a fund for deposit of
contributions and donations from businesses, corporations, and individuals to
be used to assist the town to defray the costs of construction of the town
hall, and said fund shall be entitled the Town Hall Fund, Fund Number 104.
   (B)   The monies deposited in the Fund created herein shall not revert to
the General Fund from time to time, but rather shall be nonreverting and
continue perpetually until further order of the Town Council.
   (C)   The purpose of said fund shall be to accumulate contributions and
donations from businesses, corporations, and individuals and to pay sums to
assist the town to defray the cost of construction of the new town hall.
   (D)   Said Fund need not be appropriated, but the Fund therein shall be
expended under the responsibility, approval, and direction of Town Council by
approving properly filed claims in the regular legal manner as expenditures
from this Fund.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 34.08 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall create and maintain a fund for the
undertaking of economic and community development activities, and said fund
shall be entitled the Economic Development Fund.
   (B)   The monies deposited in the Fund created under division (A) above
shall not revert to the General Fund from time to time, but rather shall be
nonreverting and continue perpetually until further order of the Town Council.
   (C)   The purpose of this Fund shall be for the payment of fees related to
the development and administration of said grant program and program income,
and the undertaking of economic and community development activities consistent
with Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and the policies and priorities of the
Osgood-Batesville Memorandum of Understanding.
   (D)   The Town Council shall be vested with the responsibility and
discretion of authorizing and approving claims for expenditures from this Fund
in accordance with applicable law.
(Res. 1, 1986, passed 8-19-1986)
§ 34.09 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION.
   Per the direction given by the State Board of Accounts (“SBOA”) in
accordance with the terms of the memorandum dated April 22, 2016 (SBOA Sea 67
Memorandum), at least 75% of the Special Distribution must be deposited into
fund 257 titled LOIT Special Distribution and used for infrastructure as found
under I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A). The remaining 25% may be deposited into the
general fund, into a properly created rainy day fund and used for any purposes
of the town.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 34.10 COMMUNITY CROSSING MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   A new non-reverting fund to be known as the Community Crossing Matching
Grant Fund ("Fund"), and which is to be given number 258, is now established.
The Fund shall receive monies from the Community Crossing Matching Grant Fund
through INDOT as well as local match funds transferred from the Reynolds
Foundation Grant Fund.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 34.11 CREDIT CARD SERVICE FEE/UTILITY PAYMENT CLEARING FUND.
   There is established Fund #811: Credit Card Service Fee/Utility Payment
Clearing as a perpetual non-reverting fund in which credit card and/or debit
card utility payments may be deposited and subsequently transferred to the
applicable utility account. The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect $25 from the gas,
sewer, water, and trash utilities to establish the account. In the event the
account is ever terminated, each utility will be reimbursed its $25 initial
contribution.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 34.12 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE FUND.
   There is established Fund #454: Sidewalk Maintenance Fund as a perpetual
non-reverting fund in which cut permits for public way and restoration of
public way may be deposited.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019)
Editor’s note:
   Cut permits for public way and restoration of public way, see §
94.01
§ 34.13 AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN NONREVERTING FUND NO. 176.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special nonreverting fund to be known as the
American Rescue Plan Nonreverting Fund No. 176.
   (B)   There shall be deposited into the fund any and all monies received
from either the federal or state government pursuant to the provisions of the
American Rescue Plan Act of 2021.
   (C)   Expenditures may be made from Fund No. 176 for expenditures incurred
by the Town of Osgood, Indiana by December 31, 2024 for any of the following
categories:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impact, including
assistance to households, small businesses and nonprofits, or to aid the
impacted industries, such as tourism, travel, and hospitality.
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of Osgood,
Indiana, that are performing such essential work or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work.
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year.
      (4)   To make necessary investments in the water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 34.14 LOCAL INCOME TAX - PUBLIC SAFETY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of fund. The town hereby creates and establishes a special
fund known as the “Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund (Fund 2240)” into
which all monies in the form of public safety LIT distributions shall be
deposited.
   (B)   Purpose of fund. The primary purpose of the fund is to accurately
track the receipts of the public safety local income tax and the disbursements
of the fund for public safety purposes.
   (C)   Responsibility of fund. The Town Fiscal Officer shall be responsible
for the deposits and disbursements of the fund and shall keep records as to the
disbursements, receipts, and current balance in such fund at all times.
   (D)   Deposit of funds. Upon receipt of the public safety distribution of
local income taxes, the Town Fiscal Officer shall immediately deposit all
receipts into the Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund.
   (E)   Disbursement of funds. The Town Fiscal Officer is directed to only
disburse funds from the Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund created hereunder
upon a receipt of a claim approved by the Town Council.
   (F)   Limitation on the use of funds. Any funds placed in the Local Income
Tax - Public Safety Fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes for which
the fund was created.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-20-2024)
FEES
§ 34.20 FEES FOR ACCIDENT REPORTS AND HANDGUN PERMITS.
   The town’s Police Department is authorized to increase its fees for accident
reports from $3 to $5, and gun permits from $10 to $50, effective immediately.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 11-21-2006; Ord. 2008-9, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 34.21 CHECK RETURN FEE.
   The town shall charge a fee of $15 for each check returned to it for failing
to clear the drawer’s account or for insufficient funds. The Clerk-Treasurer is
authorized to collect said $15 fee for checks returned for insufficient funds
and to deposit said funds in the General Fund.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 34.22 TOWN EMPLOYEE CHARGES.
   The town shall charge a rate of $55 per hour for the services of town
employees; the rate of $110 per hour for use of the town's machinery including
but not limited to bobcats, backhoes, and dump trucks; and the rate of $65 per
hour for the use of the town's equipment for mowing and weed control including
but not limited to mowers and weed eaters. Hourly charges will be prorated.
Charges will apply when performed at the property owner’s request or when
performed due to neglect or damage caused by a property owner not the fault of
the town or its employees.
(Ord. 2003-9, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. 2022-2, passed 5-17-2022)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 34.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures, or other fixed assets;
and equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of
usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of, or addition
to, the government’s general fixed assets.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS. Those funds used to account for operations that are
financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise where
the intent of the governing body is that the costs (expenses, including
depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on a
continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges, or
where the governing body has decided that periodic determination of revenues
earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for capital
maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability, and other
purposes. The ENTERPRISE FUNDS of the town shall include the municipally-owned
water, sewer, and gas utilities. Operation of these utilities shall require
enterprise fund accounting and reporting.
   FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment, or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
   HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, and most inventories
are common example of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST attribute.
   MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. An apparatus, tool, or conglomeration of pieces to
form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become a part of a basic
structure or building.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard and
smelled.
(Ord. 1999-3, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 34.36 PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Land.
      (1)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright, as easements, or
rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures are roads and
streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs,
parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs, and stormwater collection.
      (2)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying,
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or town workers (salary and benefits)), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean up, and/or inspection.
      (3)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the
date of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (4)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (B)   Machinery and equipment.
      (1)   The town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to, or greater than, $1,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to
form one unit with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be
one unit.
      (2)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set up (including contractors and/or
town works (salary and benefits)), which makes such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
      (3)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Total costs exceeds $1,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (4)   Examples include:
         (a)   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights, or radios for
use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit;
         (b)   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, the town will capitalize each piece of equipment separately if
it meets the required dollar amount; and
         (c)   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and printer) is
considered one unit.
      (5)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (6)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (C)   Buildings. A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting, sprinkler systems, or any part of
the basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building.
      (1)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets
the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than two years.
      (2)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (3)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material, and any costs
directly attributable to the construction of a building.
      (4)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on
the date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (5)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (D)   Improvements other than buildings. Improvements to land for better
enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and will have a life expectancy of
greater than two years. Examples are walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart
paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planter underground
sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
      (1)   Improvements do not include roads, streets, or assets that are of
value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a public street with
greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon town-owned land that provide
support to our facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for public
enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized. However,
sidewalks installed upon town-owned land for use by the public and for the
support of the facility are capital assets.
      (2)   The town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings only
if it meets the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $35,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than two years.
      (3)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
         (a)   The total exceeds $55,000;
         (b)   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (4)   A department’s donated improvements, other than buildings, will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
      (5)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 1999-3, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 34.37 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting manual. The cost of property, plant, and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the town and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or, where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   The town’s municipally-owned utilities shall record acquisition of
fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. When
an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements including:
      (1)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
      (2)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
      (3)   Acquisition under capital lease;
      (4)   Acquisition by exchange of nonmonetary assets;
      (5)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
      (6)   Acquisition by self-construction; and
      (7)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
   (C)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded. For example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the utilities, the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
   (D)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detail record of the capital assets of the governmental
unit.
(Ord. 1999-3, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 34.38 SAFEGUARDING ASSETS.
   Accounting controls shall be designed and implemented to provide reasonable
assurances that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments, and
utilities be in accordance with management’s authorization as documented in the
minutes;
   (B)   Transactions of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principles;
   (C)   Adequate detail records be maintained to assure accountability for
town and utility-owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization; and
   (E)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with respect to
any differences.
(Ord. 1999-3, passed 5-18-1999)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 34.50 DESIGNATION OF PURCHASING AGENCY AND PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The Town Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or supplemented
from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Town Council and policies
adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as purchasing agency for every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, and department within the
town. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the purchasing agent of the town purchasing
agency and may designate in writing any employee of the town as a deputy
purchasing agent.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 34.51 PURCHASING RULES.
   The following are the purchasing rules for the town.
   (A)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Clerk-Treasurer, as
purchasing agent under this subchapter, shall retain in a secure location all
offers received prior to the date and time at which offers will be opened, in
order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed as
authorized in this subchapter or any other statute or ordinance.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
   (B)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers may be
obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
   (C)   Delay of openings of offers. When the Town Council makes a written
determination that it is in the town’s best interest, offers may be opened
after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time, and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
   (D)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent need not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
      (4)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent may determine that
no evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
   (E)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. The Clerk-Treasurer, as purchasing agent, may
include provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The
following provisions for price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the town of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the town in accordance with applicable
ordinances adopted by the town.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of the town. The purchasing agent may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the Town
Council to order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to
order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
      (5)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased unless the Town Council determines that:
         (a)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
         (b)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceed by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
         (c)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
         (d)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is
not in the public interest.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 4-20-1999)
§ 34.52 PURCHASING POLICIES.
   (A)   Publication of notices.
      (1)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Osgood Journal and the
Versailles Republican.
      (2)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall
be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Osgood Journal and the
Versailles Republican.
      (3)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for
specifications shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Osgood
Journal and the Versailles Republican. The Clerk-Treasurer, as purchasing
agent, shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount
of time for preparation and submission of bids, proposals, or specifications.
The notice will be published in both papers two times, at least one week apart.
The second publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids
will be opened.
      (4)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material including
specifications, an invitation for bids, a request for proposals, or a request
for specifications is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the
notice or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of
the information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (B)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Invitation for bids. Bids received in response to an invitation for
bids must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Request for proposals. Proposals received in response to a request
for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Request for specifications. Proposals received in response to a
request for specifications may be opened as specified in the request for
specifications.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct inadvertent
errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by supplementing
the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an
inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened. A
bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the time at which
bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours after the time
at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (E)   Small purchases. The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an
estimated cost of less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 4-20-1999)
TAX ABATEMENT PROGRAM
§ 34.65 DECISION GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Tax abatement for both real and personal property (new manufacturing
equipment) may be made for new and existing industrial or commercial property
only within the current land use or County Comprehensive Zoning Plan and
ordinances of the town, based on the amount of new investment in real property
or equipment new to the state and the number of jobs created or retained.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby finds that there is a need to develop tax
abatement procedures which set forth the philosophy, regulations, procedures,
and general standards which the town believes are necessary to encourage
economic development within the town limits.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Council therefore declares that the following tax
abatement procedures and general standards shall govern tax abatement
procedures, and general standards shall govern tax abatement requests filed for
consideration with the town.
Scoring Matrix
Scoring Matrix
Classification                                        Score
Industrial/Manufacturing                              10
Research/Development                                  8
Commercial Development                                6
Warehousing/Distribution (minimum 30,000 square feet) 4
Housing                                               4
Investment
$4,000,000 or greater                                 10
$2,000,000 to $4,000,000                              8
$80,000 to $2,000,000                                 4
$30,000 to $80,000                                    2
Permanent jobs created and retained (within one year)
100 and above                                         12
75 to 99                                              10
50 to 74                                              8
25 to 49                                              6
5 to 24                                               4
Less than 5                                           2
Existing industry                                     2
 
      (2)   One hundred percent points value granted on wages above current
average hourly wage for classification based on Indiana Workforce Development
statistics for southeastern Indiana.
      (3)   Fifty percent points value granted on $10 per hour up to current
average hourly wage for classification based on Indiana Workforce Development
statistics for southeastern Indiana.
 
Matrix Score        Abatement Duration
                    Real Property Equipment
24 or above         10 years      10 years
20 to 23            10 years      5 years
15 to 19            6 years       5 years
10 to 14            3 years       5 years
Less than 10 points 0             0
 
   (D)   Indiana Workforce Development provides employment and training
services in accordance with the provisions of the Job Training Partnership Act,
being 29 U.S.C. §§ 1501 et seq., as amended, and other applicable federal,
state, and local laws to eligible residents. As a part of the tax abatement
process, an applicant will be required to work with this agency for employment
opportunities and possible placement to qualified applicants first, from the
town; second, from Center Township; third, from the county; fourth, from the
state; and fifth, from out of state.
   (E)   The applicant or an authorized representative must attend all meetings
of the Town Council that deal with the petition for abatement and enactment of
a resolution.
   (F)   Property owners receiving tax abatement are required to file an annual
report with the Clerk-Treasurer no later than April 1 of each year during which
abatement is received. The Clerk-Treasurer will send a notice of the
information required by February 1 and it shall include copies of Form 322 ERA/
PP, as prescribed by the state’s Board of Tax Commissioners and required for
filing with the County Auditor. The Clerk-Treasurer will present the
information to the Town Council.
(Res. 2007-5, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 34.66 REVOCATION OF TAX ABATEMENT BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The town believes that the granting of a request for real and/or
personal property tax abatement under the terms and conditions established is a
contractual arrangement between the town and the property owners granted
abatement.
   (B)   An applicant who fails to file its annual report with the Town
Council, as required herein, may have the tax abatement revoked by the Town
Council.
   (C)   An applicant who complies with the annual report requirement but fails
to provide evidence as to why he or she has not substantially complied with the
estimates set forth in its documents used by the Town Council when granting the
abatement, may have the tax abatement revoked by the Town Council.
   (D)   An applicant who fails to substantially comply with the estimates set
forth in its original petition for tax abatement consideration and its
statement of benefits, including the provision for creation of new jobs within
one year of filing its statement of benefits, may have its tax abatement
revoked by the Town Council.
(Res. 2007-5, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 34.67 GRANTING TAX ABATEMENT.
   Any applicant who applies for a building permit or certificate of occupancy
for a proposed project or acquires new manufacturing equipment prior to filing
the appropriate tax abatement petitions will not be eligible for tax abatement.
(Res. 2007-5, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 34.68 FINANCIAL INCENTIVES.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town not to offer financial incentives for
economic development projects that involve the relocation of a business from
another in-state jurisdiction to the town. The town’s decision to offer
financial incentives to relocate an economic development project from another
in-state jurisdiction to the town will be based on the following:
      (1)   A letter or other written documentation from the jurisdiction where
the business is currently located that it has exhausted all resources available
to keep the business in such jurisdiction;
      (2)   The business has exhausted its efforts to reach an agreement with
the jurisdiction in which it is located; and
      (3)   The business has provided the town with a written financial
incentive package from another state to relocate to another state and such
relocation of said business would be detrimental to the town, the region, and
the state in terms of the loss of capital investment and/or jobs.
   (B)   This policy is not intended to apply with respect to an expansion of
an existing state industry or business seeking to expand to an additional
location, but is only applicable with respect to a complete relocation of a
state industry or business.
   (C)   These are the guidelines adopted by the Town Council, and as
guidelines the Town Council reserves the right to make exceptions based upon
applicants appearing before the Town Council to explain in detail why its
project should be considered for abatement.
(Res. 2007-5, passed 2-20-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   GAS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
      
54.   SEWER
      
55.   WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Bad check fee
   
50.02   Access to meters
   
50.03   Meter deposits for all utilities
§ 50.01 BAD CHECK FEE.
   The following bad check (NSF) fee is adopted for the operation of the town’s
utilities: $30.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 50.02 ACCESS TO METERS.
   Any customer who prevents the access of utility personnel to the town’s
water and gas meters, either by way of enclosed fences, locked gates,
shrubbery, or potentially vicious animals, which prevent the entry of utility
personnel to the site of the meters, shall be charged an additional $50 per
month for each month that the utility meter is not able to be read. Said
utility surcharge shall be added to the utility customer’s bill and shall
become part and parcel of the utility charges of said town to be collected in
the same manner as other utility charges.
(Ord. 2007-5, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 50.03 METER DEPOSITS FOR ALL UTILITIES.
   Any meter deposits which remain unclaimed by the depositor for a period of
seven years from disconnection from that utility’s service and of which the
owner cannot be reasonably located or found, shall be presumed abandoned by
said depositor or owner and shall become property of the town. The Clerk-
Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to transfer any of the aforesaid
abandoned meter deposits from the utility’s Meter Deposit Fund to said
respective utility’s Operating Fund.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Connection to Water Utility Service
   
51.01   Application
   
51.02   Meter deposits
   
51.03   Connections and taps
   
51.04   Billing for services
   
51.05   Discontinuance of service
Rates and Charges
   
51.20   General provisions
   
51.21   Definitions
   
51.22   Metered rates per month
   
51.23   Minimum charge per month
   
51.24   Wholesale users
   
51.25   Fire Protection
   
51.26   Service charge per month
Water Conservation
   
51.40   Application
   
51.41   Declaration of need
   
51.42   Voluntary conservation
   
51.43   Mandatory conservation
   
51.44   Rationing
   
51.45   Exceptions
   
51.46   Notice
Cross-Connections
   
51.60   Definitions
   
51.61   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.62   Cross-connection hazards
   
51.63   Precautionary measures
   
51.64   Additional requirements
 
   
51.99   Penalty
CONNECTION TO WATER UTILITY SERVICE
§ 51.01 APPLICATION.
   Applications for water service shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer and
shall be accompanied by the appropriate meter deposit, as set forth in §
51.02.
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 1-19-1999)
§ 51.02 METER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Owners. Any individual, partnership, association, business, or
corporation owning real property or improvements thereon in the town and
desirous of service from the town’s water utility, hereinafter customer, owner,
or depositor, shall make application and pay a meter deposit of $25 to the
Clerk-Treasurer prior to service being furnished.
   (B)   Renters. Any individual, partnership, association, business, or
corporation renting real property or improvements thereon in the town and
desirous of service from the town’s water utility, hereinafter customer,
renter, or depositor, shall make application and pay a meter deposit of $50 to
the Clerk-Treasurer prior to service being furnished. The renter’s meter
deposit shall be in addition to the owner’s meter deposit, as set forth in
division (A) above.
   (C)   Purchasers on installment real estate contract. Any individual,
partnership, association, business, or corporation which purchases real estate
or improvements thereon in the town pursuant to a contract sale and desirous of
service from the town’s water utility, hereinafter customer, purchaser, or
depositor, shall make application and pay a meter deposit of $50 to the Clerk-
Treasurer prior to service being furnished. Upon receipt of the purchaser’s
deposit, the owner’s deposit required herein of the seller shall be refunded to
the owner. Upon proof of performance of the contract by presentation of a deed,
the purchaser’s deposit will be refunded to purchaser and an owner’s meter
deposit will be required to be made.
   (D)   Reimbursement. Meter deposits shall be held by the utility in the
customer’s name(s) until such time as service to the customer is discontinued
either by the customer or the utility. Upon discontinuance of service, the town
shall apply all or any part of the customer’s meter deposit to payment of any
outstanding water charges, including any delinquencies, with the renter’s or
purchaser’s meter deposit being first applied to the payment of water charges
followed by the owner’s meter deposit. The remaining balance of meter deposit
shall be refunded to the depositor. The depositor shall be responsible for
providing the town with a proper forwarding address. Transfer of a meter
deposit may only be made by the depositor properly completing transfer forms
provided by the Clerk-Treasurer, and may be made only if the old deposit is
equal to the currently required deposit.
   (E)   Proof of interest in the property. The town shall have the right to
request proof of the customer’s interest in the property served by the water
utility by presentation of a copy of deed, contract, lease, or agreement, and
to request that the meter deposit be made and held in the customer’s name. In
the event that the depositor dies or moves from subject property, the town
shall have the right to request either a transfer of deposit or a new meter
deposit from any customer who remains thereon.
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 1-19-1999)
§ 51.03 CONNECTIONS AND TAPS.
   (A)   All connections/taps to the utility’s water mains for water service
shall be made by, and under the direct supervision of, the town or its
designated personnel.
   (B)   (1)   A connection/tap of service lines to the water utility’s
distribution mains requires payment of a connection/tap fee based on the size
of the meter or the actual cost of making the connection/tap, whichever amount
is greater, which connection/tap fees are as follows:
         (a)   Five-eighths of an inch meter: $1,000; and
         (b)   One-inch meter or greater: $1,000.
      (2)   Connection/tap fees shall be paid prior to water service being
provided and prior to the meter being turned on.
   (C)   When a connection/tap is to be made pursuant to new construction or
remodeling, a copy of the improvement location permit issued by the Area
Planning Commission or the builder’s permit issued by the Building Inspector
shall be furnished to the town prior to the connection/tap being made. In
addition, the owner of the affected real estate shall grant an easement in
proper form to the town for said water service.
   (D)   All water meters shall be installed outside the customer’s premises in
a location and in a manner as determined by the town or its designated
personnel. Refusal to abide by this division (D) shall be cause to deny water
service to the customer. Commercial or business property customers may obtain a
special exception from the town to place the meter inside the customer’s
premises, subject to the discretion of the town.
   (E)   Service pipes which connect the customer’s premises to the utility’s
water mains shall not serve more than one customer and shall not cross property
boundary lines. Each lot or parcel of real estate shall be served separately by
one service line from the utility’s distribution main. A customer may not
combine land parcels or lots to circumvent this regulation.
   (F)   Water lines that supply two or more water customers shall have a
separate stop-cock and a separate meter for each customer. Each customer shall
be issued a separate billing pursuant to utility rates and charges.
   (G)   (1)   Connections/taps to the utility’s water mains shall consist of a
curb-cock located between the distribution main and the meter; the water meter;
and a stop-cock and dual check valve located between the meter and the
customer’s premises for purposes of emergency shut-off and making repairs.
Water service may be turned off and on at the curb-cock in front of the meter
only by the town or its designated personnel.
      (2)   The town shall have responsibility for maintaining all service
lines and equipment from the utility’s distribution mains to, and including,
the customer’s meter. The customer shall have the responsibility for
maintaining all service lines and equipment from the meter to the customer’s
premises.
      (3)   In the event that a meter is installed inside the customer’s
premises or at a location other than the property boundary, the property owner
shall maintain the service line on the utility’s side of the meter from the
utility’s distribution main to the customer’s premises. In no event shall town
personnel perform any work on water appurtenances located on the customer’s
side of the meter.
   (H)   Main extensions to residential areas, industries, commercial
businesses, or other development areas not previously served by the utility
shall be made at the expense of the owner, builder, or developer, and shall be
made pursuant to the direction and control of the town. The size of the
distribution main and the material from which the main is made shall be
approved by the town prior to installation, but in no event shall the
distribution main be less than six inches in diameter.
   (I)   The town or its designated personnel shall have the right to inspect
at reasonable times all service lines, water appurtenances, meters, and valves
on the customer’s premises and shall have the right to enter any building or
structure for that purpose.
   (J)   Covering up, paving over, enclosing, or in any way interfering with or
damaging a curb box, valve pit, service line, meter, or hydrant is strictly
forbidden.
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 1-19-1999; Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-21-2010; Ord. 2018-1,
passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 BILLING FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Customers will be billed for services on a monthly basis. Meters will
be read by utility personnel at the end of each month and said bill shall
include the prior month’s usage of water. Bills for water service will be
mailed to customers on or about the ninth day of the month following reading of
the meter. Payment for said water service is due and payable on or before the
twenty-fifth day of the month following issuance of the bill.
   (B)   (1)   Any utility charges remaining unpaid after the twenty-fifth day
of the month following issuance of the bill shall be considered delinquent and
shall be assessed delinquency charges equal to an additional 10% of the unpaid
water charges, excluding any prior delinquent charges and taxes.
      (2)   An additional reconnection charge of $40 shall be assessed if water
service is reconnected or disconnected. All water charges, including past-due
and the current month’s charges, any delinquent charges, and any reconnection
fee, shall be paid prior to the service being reconnected.
      (3)   The $40 disconnect or reconnect fee may be waited by town personnel
in the event of an emergency or in the event of a homeowner’s extended absence.
It shall not be waived for a delinquent account.
   (C)   In the event of a failure of any meter, the town will bill water usage
based on the average of billings for the immediately preceding six months prior
to said failure.
   (D)   In the event of a leak in the customer’s water service line which does
not enter the sewer system, the town will adjust the sewer charge for one
month’s billing based on an average six months’ billing. In order to obtain the
adjustment, it must be verified by town personnel or the property owner may
obtain a statement from a plumber licensed in the State of Indiana verifying
that the leak did not go through the sewer. Only one adjustment may be given
per leak.
   (E)   In the case of temporary customers such as contractors, carnivals, and
street fairs, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to demand payment in
advance for service in an amount for the water estimated to be used thereby.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to proceed and collect any past due
water utility bills, including delinquencies, through legal process including
filing suit in County Small Claims Court.
   (G)   In the case of rental property, both the renter and the property owner
shall be responsible for any unpaid water utility bills.
   (H)   There will be a $300 service reconnection charge for reconnection of
service meters which shall be paid prior to meter reconnection.
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 1-19-1999; Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-17-2005; Ord. 2010-7,
passed 12-21-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 51.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to discontinue service to a customer for
the following reasons:
      (1)   Continued wasting or improper use of water after it has been called
to the customer’s attention;
      (2)   Interfering with or destroying any water appurtenances or
appliances belonging to the utility; and/or
      (3)   Failure to timely pay charges and bills for service within ten days
of their being due.
   (B)   Upon the failure of a customer to pay any water bill within ten days
of its being due, the town has the right to discontinue water service by
shutting off the service at the water main. No notice of discontinuance need be
given to the customer. Service to the customer shall not be restored until
payment of all outstanding charges, including the current month’s bill and any
delinquencies, and the reconnection fee is made.
   (C)   The town has the right to discontinue water service to a water
customer or any property upon failure of the water customer or the property
owner to pay charges legally due for sewer or sewage disposal plant services
(I.C. 8-1.5-3-4), which charges remain due and unpaid for 30 days.
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 1-19-1999)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.20 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Each retail customer shall pay a minimum monthly charge in accordance with
the size of the water meter installed, and for which said customer shall be
entitled to a minimum quantity of water per month. Usage of water in excess of
the minimum monthly gallons allowed will result in the rates and charges for
the quantity of water supplied during each monthly billing period.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-21-2010; Ord. 2016-7, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 51.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE A. Assumes Napoleon Community Rural Water Company and Holton
Community Water Corporation continue as wholesale water customers.
   ALTERNATIVE B. Assumes Napoleon Community Rural Water Company continues as
wholesale water customer.
   ALTERNATIVE C. Assumes no wholesale customers after January 1, 2030.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 51.22 METERED RATES PER MONTH.
 
Metered Rates  Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV    Phase V
Per Month      5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 1/1/2027 to 12/
(rate per      12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  12/31/2026  31/2027
1,000 gallons)
First 5,000    $8.22       $8.46       $8.71       $8.96       $9.22
gallons
Next 10,000    $7.70       $7.92       $8.15       $8.39       $8.63
gallons
Next 15,000    $7.00       $7.20       $7.41       $7.62       $7.84
gallons
Over 30,000    $6.38       $6.57       $6.76       $6.96       $7.16
gallons
 
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-21-2010; Ord. 2016-7, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 2017-4,
passed 8-15-2017; Ord. 2023-1, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 51.23 MINIMUM CHARGE PER MONTH.
Minimum Charge Per Month
           Gallons Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV    Phase V
Meter Size Allowed 5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 1/1/2027 to
                   12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  12/31/2026  12/31/2027
Minimum Charge Per Month
           Gallons Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV    Phase V
Meter Size Allowed 5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 1/1/2027 to
                   12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  12/31/2026  12/31/2027
5/8 inch   2,500   $25.55      $26.15      $26.78      $27.40      $28.05
1 inch     5,000   $53.60      $54.80      $56.05      $57.30      $58.60
1 1/4 inch 10,950  $106.92     $109.42     $112.04     $114.72     $117.45
1 1/2 inch 15,000  $143.10     $146.50     $150.05     $153.70     $157.40
2 inch     40,140  $327.79     $336.12     $344.75     $353.57     $362.60
3 inch     60,280  $491.29     $503.44     $515.89     $528.75     $541.80
4 inch     80,380  $669.52     $685.50     $701.77     $718.64     $735.72
6 inch     100,830 $925.00     $944.85     $965.01     $985.98     $1,007.14
 
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-21-2010; Ord. 2016-7, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 2017-4,
passed 8-15-2017; Ord. 2023-1, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 51.24 WHOLESALE USERS.
 
Wholesale      Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV    Phase V
Users          5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 1/1/2027 to 12/
(rate per      12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  12/31/2026  31/2027
1,000 gallons)
Non-
contractual    $6.49       $6.68       $6.87       $7.07       $7.28
wholesale rate
Contractual    $4.74       $4.88       $5.02       $5.17       $5.32
wholesale rate
 
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-21-2010; Ord. 2016-7, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 2017-4,
passed 8-15-2017; Ord. 2023-1, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 51.25 FIRE PROTECTION.
Fire        Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV        Phase V
Protection  5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 12/ 1/1/2027 to 12/
(per annum) 12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  31/2026         31/2027
Fire           Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV    Phase V
Protection     5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 1/1/2027 to 12/
(per annum)    12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  12/31/2026  31/2027
Public hydrant $528.80     $544.14     $559.92     $576.16     $592.87
rental
Private        $528.80     $544.14     $559.92     $576.16     $592.87
hydrant rental
Automatic                                                   
sprinklers
   4 inch   $264.39     $272.06     $279.95     $288.07     $296.42
connection
   6 inch   $528.80     $544.14     $559.92     $576.16     $592.87
connection
   8 inch   $1,057.51   $1,088.18   $1,119.74   $1,152.21   $1,185.62
connection
   10 inch  $1,586.32   $1,632.32   $1,679.66   $1,728.37   $1,778.49
connection
   12 inch  $2,115.03   $2,176.37   $2,239.48   $2,304.42   $2,371.25
connection
 
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-21-2010; Ord. 2016-7, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 2017-4,
passed 8-15-2017; Ord. 2023-1, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 51.26 SERVICE CHARGE PER MONTH.
Service Charge Per Month
           Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV        Phase V
Meter Size 5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 12/ 1/1/2027 to 12/
           12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  31/2026         31/2027
Service Charge Per Month
           Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV        Phase V
Meter Size 5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 12/ 1/1/2027 to 12/
           12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  31/2026         31/2027
5/8 inch   $5.00       $5.00       $5.00       $5.00           $5.00
1 inch     $12.50      $12.50      $12.50      $12.50          $12.50
1 1/4 inch $20.00      $20.00      $20.00      $20.00          $20.00
1 1/2 inch $25.00      $25.00      $25.00      $25.00          $25.00
2 inch     $40.00      $40.00      $40.00      $40.00          $40.00
3 inch     $75.00      $75.00      $75.00      $75.00          $75.00
4 inch     $125.00     $125.00     $125.00     $125.00         $125.00
6 inch     $250.00     $250.00     $250.00     $250.00         $250.00
 
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 4-18-2023)
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 51.40 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships,
municipalities, associations, corporations, companies, or organizations of any
kind connected to the town’s public water system or using water therefrom
(hereafter, users).
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
§ 51.41 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the town’s public water system is in imminent danger
of a shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, the Town Council
shall declare a water conservation emergency and establish the appropriate
conservation measures and the duration thereof.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
§ 51.42 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
51.46, users shall be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing
voluntary conservation techniques. The Town Council shall suggest reasonable
and meaningful actions that will alleviate existing or potential water
shortage.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
§ 51.43 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
51.46, users shall be prohibited from the water uses listed below, subject to
reasonable terms, times, and conditions as the Town Council shall determine:
   (A)   Sprinkling, watering, or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass, ground
covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, or any other vegetation;
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars,
or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas, or other
outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
   (E)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools, and ornamental fountains;
and
   (F)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
§ 51.44 RATIONING.
   In addition to the mandatory conservation measures identified in §
51.43 and in accordance with §
51.46, users shall be limited to water use per the following schedule.
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to personal use only.
   (B)   Municipal, business, commercial, and industrial users shall be limited
to a reduction in usage of 30% percent of the volume of water used during the
corresponding month of the preceding year. Municipal, business, commercial, or
industrial users that were not in business and operating in the area served by
the town’s public water system more than one year prior to the declaration of
need shall be restricted to 70% of the average monthly volume of water used
during the number of months such municipal, business, commercial, or industrial
user was in business and operating in the public water system area.
   (C)   In addition to division (B) above, bulk haulers may not be permitted
to purchase any water, at the discretion of the Superintendent, when water
stored at a given time is less than 80% of storage capacity.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
§ 51.45 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Town Council reserves the right to establish alternative rationing
requirements for the following:
   (A)   Health care providers;
   (B)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards; and
   (C)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be necessary
for the public health and well being.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
§ 51.46 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by publication in a
local newspaper of general circulation or other means as deemed appropriate by
the Town Council. Said notice shall be effective upon publication.
   (B)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be effective upon
public notification of a water emergency.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. An unobstructed vertical distance through atmosphere between the
discharge end of a pipeline supplied from a public water supply and the
overflow rim of the receiving portion of the customer water system.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or contaminants into the public water supply
distribution system from a source other than the public water supply.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management, or the Commissioner’s authorized representative.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement, including cross-connection
control devices not in working order, whereby a public water supply
distribution system is directly connected, either continuously or
intermittently, with any secondary source of supply, sewer, drain, conduit,
pool, piping, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device which
contains, or may contain, and is capable of imparting to the public water
supply, contaminants, contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or liquid of
unknown or unsafe quality.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE. Any device or assembly approved by the
Commissioner for construction on, or installation in, water supply piping,
which is capable of preventing contaminants from entering the public water
supply distribution system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR. A person who has:
      (1)   Successfully completed training in testing and inspection of cross-
connection control devices from a training provider approved by the
Commissioner;
      (2)   Received a registration number from the Commissioner; and
      (3)   Not been notified by the Commissioner that the registration number
has been revoked.
   CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARD. Any customer facility which, because of the nature
and extent of activities on the premises or the materials used in connection
with the activities or stored on the premises, would present an immediate or
potential danger or health hazard to customers of the public water supply
should backflow occur.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who receives water from the public water supply.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The pipeline from the public water supply to the:
      (1)   First tap, fixture, receptacle, or other point of customer water
use; or
      (2)   Secondary source of supply or pipeline branch in a building.
   CUSTOMER WATER SYSTEM. All piping, fixtures, and appurtenances including
secondary sources of supply used by a customer to convey water on his or her
premises.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A device or assembly composed of two tightly
closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently acting check valves, with
four test cocks, one upstream of the four valves and one between each of the
four check and shut-off valves.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device or assembly containing an independently
operating internally loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded
air valve located on the downstream side of the check valve for relieving a
vacuum or partial vacuum in a pipeline.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device composed of two
tightly closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently acting pressure
reducing check valves that, in turn, surround an automatic pressure
differential relief valve, and four test cocks, one upstream of the five valves
and one between each of the four check and shut-off valves. The check valves
effectively divide the structure into three chambers; pressure is reduced in
each downstream chamber allowing the pressure differential relief valve to vent
the center chamber to atmosphere should either or both check valves
malfunction.
   SECONDARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY. Any well, spring, cistern, lake, stream, or
other water source, intake structure, pumps, piping, treatment units, tanks,
and appurtenances used, either continuously or intermittently, to supply water
other than from the public water supply to the customer; including tanks used
to store water to be used only for firefighting, even though the water
contained therein is supplied from the public water supply.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 51.61 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No customer of the town’s water system shall cause or allow the construction
or maintenance of a cross-connection. Piping installed to bypass a cross-
connection control device constitutes a cross-connection unless the bypass
piping is also fitted with a similar cross-connection control device.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-19-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.62 CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARDS.
   (A)   Wherever a cross-connection hazard, as specified by division (C)
below, is designated:
      (1)   An air gap shall be constructed or a reduced pressure principle
backflow preventer shall be installed, in accordance with §
51.64(A), on the customer service line for:
         (a)   Any new facility;
         (b)   Any modified customer service line; or
         (c)   Any existing facility where a higher capacity meter is
installed.
      (2)   Neither an air gap nor a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer shall be required to be incorporated into customer service lines that
both are utilized solely for fire suppression and are fitted with an audible
alarm that will activate when water is detected to be flowing in the customer
service line.
   (B)   Customers who have a cross-connection that has resulted in a
contaminant being introduced into a public water system or a customer water
system:
      (1)   Shall immediately construct an air gap or install a reduced
pressure principle backflow preventer on the customer service line, in
accordance with §
51.64(A); or
      (2)   Is exempt from the requirements of division (B)(1) above because
the affected customer service line is both utilized solely for fire suppression
and is fitted with an audible alarm that will activate when water is detected
to be flowing in the line.
   (C)   The following customer facilities are designated cross-connection
hazards:
      (1)   Aircraft and missile manufacturing plants;
      (2)   Automotive plants, including those plants that manufacture
motorcycles, automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, and construction and
agricultural equipment;
      (3)   Beverage bottling plants, including dairies and breweries;
      (4)   Canneries, packing houses, and reduction plants;
      (5)   Car washes;
      (6)   Chemical, biological, and radiological laboratories, including
those in high schools, trade schools, colleges, universities, and research
institutions;
      (7)   Hospitals, clinics, medical buildings, autopsy facilities, morgues,
other medical facilities, and mortuaries;
      (8)   Metal and plastic manufacturing, fabricating, cleaning, plating,
and processing facilities;
      (9)   Plants manufacturing paper and paper products;
      (10)   Plants manufacturing, refining, compounding, or processing
fertilizer, film, herbicides, natural or synthetic rubber, pesticides,
petroleum or petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, radiological materials, or
any chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water supply;
      (11)   Commercial facilities that use herbicides, pesticides,
fertilizers, or any chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water
supply;
      (12)   Plants processing, blending, or refining animal, vegetable, or
mineral oils;
      (13)   Commercial laundries and dye works, excluding coin-operated
laundromats;
      (14)   Sewage, stormwater, and industrial waste treatment plants and
pumping stations;
      (15)   Waterfront facilities, including piers, docks, marinas, and
shipyards;
      (16)   Industrial facilities that recycle water; and
      (17)   Restricted or classified facilities (federal government defense or
military installations), or other facilities closed to the supplier of water or
to the Commissioner.
   (D)   Customer facilities not designated as a cross-connection hazard by
division (C) above may be designated a cross-connection hazard by written
notification from the Commissioner to the customer and to the customer’s public
water system. The notice shall specify the nature of the customer activity that
necessitates designation of the customer’s facility as a cross-connection
hazard and the date by which the customer shall install a cross-connection
control device, in accordance with §
51.64(A), on the customer service line to the facility so designated.
   (E)   The Commissioner may issue a letter exempting a customer from the
requirements of division (A) above if the customer can show, to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner, that the activities taking place at the
customer’s facility and the materials used in connection with these activities
or stored on the premises cannot endanger the health of customers of the public
water system should backflow occur. An exemption shall remain valid for no more
than three years from the date of issuance. If the Commissioner finds that the
customer facility has become a cross-connection hazard, the Commissioner will
void the exemption and so notify the customer.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 51.63 PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES.
   (A)   Customers shall construct an air gap or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer or a double check valve assembly, in accordance
with §
51.64(A), on the customer service line to:
      (1)   Tanks used only to store water from the public water supply for
fire suppression that are constructed to maintain the bacteriological quality
of the water in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 8-2; or
      (2)   Secondary sources of the supply that:
         (a)   Use well water as the only private source of supply;
         (b)   Are constructed to maintain the bacteriological quality of the
water, in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 8-2; and
         (c)   Produce, without treatment, water meeting the drinking water
quality standards enumerated in 327 I.A.C. 8-2.
   (B)   Customers shall construct an air gap or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer, in accordance with §
51.64(A), on the customer service line to or into a facility having a secondary
source of supply of a type other than those enumerated in division (A) above
that is used only for fire suppression.
   (C)   No secondary source of supply of a type other than those enumerated in
divisions (A) and (B) above shall be physically connected to the customer
service line or into the facility.
   (D)   Customers shall construct an air gap or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer or pressure type vacuum breaker, in accordance
with §
51.64(A), on the water line connecting the public water supply to any land
irrigation facility buried below ground that has a sprinkler outlet located
less than six inches above grade and was constructed after July 19, 1985.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 51.64 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Discharge pipe.
      (1)   The discharge pipe of an air gap shall terminate:
         (a)   A minimum of two pipe diameters of the discharge pipe or six
inches, whichever is the lesser, above the maximum recorded flood level or
above the flood level rim of the receiving vessel, whichever is higher; or
         (b)   A minimum of three pipe diameters of the discharge pipe or six
inches, whichever is lesser, above the maximum recorded flood level or above
the flood level rim of the receiving vessel, whichever is higher where:
            1.   A side wall, rib, or similar obstruction is spaced closer than
three diameters from the piping affecting the air gap; or
            2.   Two intersecting walls are located closer than four pipe
diameters from the piping affecting the air gap.
      (2)   Only those models of double check valve assemblies, reduced
pressure principle backflow preventers, and pressure vacuum breakers that have
been listed by the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research of the University of Southern California, August 27, 1997, or those
acceptable under the state’s Plumbing Code pursuant to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission rules at 675 I.A.C. 16-1.4, shall be installed.
      (3)   (a)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed horizontally with:
            1.   No plug or additional piping affixed to the pressure
differential relief valve port; and
            2.   The pressure differential relief valve port a minimum of 12
inches above floor level.
         (b)   Additionally, the device must be installed at a location where
any leakage from the pressure differential relief valve port will be noticed
and that allows access to the valve for maintenance and testing from floor
level, without use of a ladder or other similar temporary apparatus, and that
will not subject the device to flooding, excessive heat, or freezing.
      (4)   All double check valve assemblies shall be installed at a location
that allows access to the device for maintenance and testing from the floor
level, without use of a ladder or other similar temporary apparatus, and that
will not subject the device to flooding, excessive heat, or freezing.
      (5)   Pressure vacuum breakers shall be installed as near as possible to
the irrigation facility at a location that allows access to the device for
maintenance and testing from the floor or ground level, without use of a ladder
or other similar temporary apparatus, and that will not subject the device to
flooding, excessive heat, or freezing. Additionally, the device must be
installed between two tightly closing shut-off valves with its center line or
datum point a minimum of 12 inches above:
         (a)   Floor level;
         (b)   The highest downstream piping or shut-off valve; and
         (c)   The highest downstream overflow rim or discharge point.
   (B)   Control devices.
      (1)   The customer shall install and maintain in working order at all
times any cross-connection control device or booster pump control device
required by this subchapter.
      (2)   To ensure that each cross-connection control device required by
this subchapter is in working order, the customer shall have each device
inspected or tested by a cross-connection control device inspector at the time
of construction or installation, and at the following intervals, in the
following manners.
         (a)   Air gaps shall be inspected at intervals not exceeding one year
to ensure that they continue to meet the requirements of division (A) above.
         (b)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be tested
at intervals not exceeding six months to ensure that:
            1.   Both check valves are drip-tight under all pressure
differentials; and
            2.   The pressure differential relief valve will maintain pressure
in the center chamber at least two pounds per square inch below that of the
inlet chamber.
         (c)   Double check valve assemblies shall be tested at intervals not
exceeding one year to ensure that both check valves are drip-tight under all
pressure differentials.
         (d)   Pressure vacuum breakers shall be tested at intervals not
exceeding one year to ensure that the air inlet opens fully when water pressure
is at or below atmospheric pressure.
      (3)   The customer shall permit access to the customer’s premises by the
inspector, the customer’s public water system, or the Commissioner, at
reasonable times and upon presentation of identification, for inspection of the
customer water system or testing of cross-connection control devices installed
in accordance with this subchapter.
      (4)   Those customers granted an exemption, in accordance with §
51.62(E), shall report to the Commissioner and to the supplier of water any
proposed change in process, plumbing, or materials used or stored at the
exempted facility at least 14 days prior to making the change. Failure to do so
shall void the exemption.
   (C)   Inspectors.
      (1)   All cross-connection control device inspectors shall:
         (a)   Be registered with the Commissioner in accordance with state
regulations; and
         (b)   Submit reports of all inspections as required by division (C)(2)
below.
      (2)   The inspector shall report to the public water system, the customer
and, if requested, the Commissioner, on a form provided by the Commissioner,
the results of inspections or tests conducted pursuant to §
51.64(A)(2) on air gaps, reduced pressure principle back-flow preventers,
double check valve assemblies, and pressure vacuum breakers. Reports shall be
submitted to the public water system and to the customer within 30 days of the
inspection or test.
   (D)   Tests and violations.
      (1)   Because cross-connections may cause disease through transmission of
contaminants via the public water system, the Commissioner shall order the
public water system to remove the customer service meter or otherwise sever the
public water system connection to any customer that the Commissioner finds, or
has reason to believe is, in violation of any provision of this subchapter.
      (2)   The supplier of water shall retain the three most recent reports of
tests conducted on air gaps, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers,
double check valve assemblies, and pressure vacuum breakers installed in
accordance with this subchapter. The supplier of water shall permit access to
these files at reasonable times and upon presentation of identification by the
Commissioner.
      (3)   If so requested, the public water system shall submit to the
Commissioner copies of any report required to be retained by division (D)(2)
above.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event §
51.03(L) is violated, the town may charge the violator with the costs of any
corrective action and in addition shall impose a fine of $500, which costs and
fine may be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer who is hereby authorized to pursue
legal remedies in a court of law.
   (C)   Any user who violates §§
51.43 or
51.44 may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500. Each day of violation
shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to, or in the alternative to,
a fine, water service may be terminated for any user who violates §§
51.43 or
51.44.
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 1-19-1999; Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-10-2002)
CHAPTER 52: GAS
Section
Connection to the Gas Utility Service
   
52.01   Application
   
52.02   Meter deposits
   
52.03   Connections and taps
Rates and Charges
   
52.15   General provisions
   
52.16   Minimum charges
   
52.17   Metered consumption
   
52.18   Surcharge for out of town customers
   
52.19   Cost adjustment
   
52.20   Meter access
   
52.21   Billing for service
   
52.22   Discontinuance of service
 
   
52.99   Penalty
CONNECTION TO THE GAS UTILITY SERVICE
§ 52.01 APPLICATION.
   Applications for gas service shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer on forms
provided for that purpose, and shall be accompanied by the appropriate meter
deposit, as set forth in §
52.02.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.02 METER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Owners. Any individual, partnership, association, business, or
corporation which owns real property or improvements thereon in the town and
desires service from the town’s gas utility, hereinafter customer, owner, or
depositor, shall make application and pay a meter deposit of $100 to the Clerk-
Treasurer prior to service being furnished.
   (B)   Renters. Any individual, partnership, association, business, or
corporation which rents or purchases on installment land sale contract real
property or improvements thereon in the town and desires service from the
town’s gas utility, hereinafter customer, renter, purchaser, or depositor,
shall make application and pay a meter deposit of $100 to the Clerk-Treasurer
prior to service being furnished. The renter’s/purchaser’s meter deposit shall
be in addition to the owner’s meter deposit as set forth herein. Upon proof of
performance of the installment sale contract by presentation of a deed, the
owner’s meter deposit will be refunded to owner and the purchaser’s meter
deposit will be held as the new owner’s meter deposit.
   (C)   Meter deposits. Meter deposits shall be held by the utility in the
customer’s name(s) until such time as service to the customer is discontinued
either by the customer or the utility. Upon discontinuance of service, the town
shall apply all or any part of the customer’s meter deposit to payment of any
outstanding gas charges, including any delinquencies, with the renter’s/
purchaser’s meter deposit being first applied to the payment of gas charges and
then the owner’s. The remaining balance of meter deposit, if any, shall be
refunded to the depositor. The depositor shall be responsible for providing the
town with a proper forwarding address. Transfer of a meter deposit may only be
made by the depositor properly completing transfer forms provided by Clerk-
Treasurer, and may be made only if the old deposit is equal to the currently
required deposit.
   (D)   Proof of interest. The town shall have the right to request proof of
the customer’s interest in the property served by the gas utility by delivery
of a copy of deed, contract, lease, or purchase agreement, and to request that
the meter deposit be made and held in the customer’s name. In the event that
the depositor dies or moves from subject property, the town shall have the
right to request either a transfer of deposit or a new meter deposit from any
customer who remains thereon.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.03 CONNECTIONS AND TAPS.
   (A)   In addition to the required meter deposit, any utility customer whose
premises to be served by said utility lie outside the corporate boundary of the
town shall be required to pay, prior to connection to service, a gas utility
availability fee of $4 per lineal foot of gas main length serving said
property.
   (B)   All connections/taps to the utility’s gas mains for gas service shall
be made by, and under the direct supervision of, the town’s Gas Utility
Superintendent or designated personnel.
   (C)   When a connection/tap is to be made pursuant to new construction or
remodeling, a copy of the building permit issued by the Area Planning
Commission or Building Inspector shall be furnished to the town prior to the
connection/tap being made. In addition, the owner of the affected real estate
shall grant an easement in proper form to the town for said gas service.
   (D)   All gas meters shall be installed outside the customer’s premises in a
location and in a manner as determined by the town’s Gas Utility
Superintendent. Refusal to abide by this provision shall be grounds to deny gas
service to the customer.
   (E)   Gas utility employees shall have the right to inspect, at any
reasonable time and upon notice to the customer, all service on and to the
customer’s premises and shall have the right to enter any building or structure
for such purpose. In the event a gas leak is suspected, and if requested by the
customer, a representative of the utility may enter the premises in an attempt
to locate said leak; however, said representative may not perform any work on
property located on the customer’s side of the meter, but may only light pilot
lights. Should a leak develop in the customer’s service line, service will be
shut off at the meter and “red-tagged”, and the meter will be locked by the
town gas personnel. Service shall not be reconnected until a properly qualified
person has certified to the town that said leak has been properly repaired. In
the event the main distribution system is disconnected because of accident or
other reason, gas utility personnel may enter the customer’s premises and, if
requested by customer, may relight pilot lights. The town gas employee shall
file a gas leak report with the Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to state and federal
pipeline safety requirements and insurance procedures.
   (F)   Gas service lines that supply two or more gas customers shall have a
separate shut-off valve and a separate meter for each customer. Each customer
shall be issued a separate billing pursuant to adopted gas utility rates and
charges.
   (G)   Service lines, which connect the customer’s premises to the utility’s
gas main, shall not serve more than one property owner and shall not cross
property boundary lines. Each lot or parcel of real estate shall be served
separately by one service line from the utility’s distribution main.
   (H)   Connections/taps to the utility’s gas main shall consist of a shut-off
valve located between the distribution main and the meter, and the gas meter.
Gas service may not be turned off and on at the shut-off valve in front of the
meter unless by the town municipal gas utility personnel.
   (I)   The town shall have responsibility for maintaining all service lines
and equipment from the utility’s distribution main to, and including, the
customer’s meter. The customer shall have the responsibility for maintaining
all service lines and equipment from the utility’s meter to, and including, the
customer’s premises. In no event may gas utility personnel perform any work on
gas appurtenances located on the customer’s side of the meter.
   (J)   Main extensions to new customers, including businesses, industries,
commercial enterprises, and housing developments, shall be made at the expense
of the customer, user, business, builder, or developer, unless the town
determines that such service extension to new customers would generate
sufficient revenue to the gas utility to make the cost of said extensions
economically feasible to the town and in the best interests of the municipal
gas utility and the town.
   (K)   Main extensions to residential areas, industries, commercial
businesses, or other development areas not previously served by the utility
shall be made pursuant to the direction and control of the town. The size of
the distribution main and the material from which the mains are to be
constructed shall be approved by the town Gas Utility Superintendent prior to
installation, but in no event shall the distribution main be less than two
inches in diameter.
   (L)   Covering up, paving over, enclosing, or in any way interfering with or
damaging a distribution main, service line, meter, and any appurtenances
thereto is strictly forbidden.
   (M)   Connections/taps of service lines to the gas utility’s distribution
main requires payment of a connection/tap fee of $350 or the actual cost of
making the connection/tap, including materials and labor, whichever sum is
greater. The Town Council shall periodically establish a charge per lineal foot
for such work. Connection/tap fees shall be paid prior to gas service being
turned on and provided by the utility.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The town has previously established rates and charges and fees for the
provision of gas to its customers by previously adopted Ords. 2000-1, 2006-2,
2006-9, 2007-2, and 2007-5, which rates and charges and fees are restated
herein.
   (A)   In the case of rental property or property purchased on installment
land sale contract, both the renter/purchaser and the property owner shall be
responsible for any unpaid gas utility bills.
   (B)   Each customer shall pay a minimum monthly rate in accordance with the
type of the meter installed and the amount of gas usage. The rates and charges
of the town municipal gas utility are established by ordinance duly adopted by
Town Council for the town and are as follows.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.16 MINIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   Each customer shall pay a minimum monthly gas meter charge per meter
in accordance with the type of meter installed, to-wit:
      (1)   Residential(R-275 meters): $5 per month;
      (2)   Small commercial (415 to 900 series meters): $12 per month; and
      (3)   Medium and large commercial and industrial (rotary meters): $25 per
month.
   (B)   In addition, there will be a $300 service reconnection charge for
reconnection of service meters, which shall be paid prior to meter
reconnection.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.17 METERED CONSUMPTION.
   Usage of gas will result in the following rates and charges for the quantity
of gas supplied during each monthly billing period:
   (A)   First 800 cubic feet: $7.43 per 1,000 cubic feet;
   (B)   Next 1,200 cubic feet: $5.98 per 1,000 cubic feet;
   (C)   Next 98,000 cubic feet: $5.58 per 1,000 cubic feet; and
   (D)   Over 100,000 cubic feet: $5.32 per 1,000 cubic feet.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.18 SURCHARGE FOR OUT OF TOWN CUSTOMERS.
   A gas surcharge of $0.50 per each 1,000 cubic feet of gas shall be added to
the usual rates and charges for gas service to those customers of said gas
utility that are located outside the corporate boundaries of the town, and
shall be included in the monthly billings therefor.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.19 COST ADJUSTMENT.
   There will be a gas cost adjustment increment included in each monthly bill
that shall be computed on a monthly basis in accordance with the gas cost
adjustment procedures of the state’s Utility Regulatory Commission.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.20 METER ACCESS.
   Any customer who prevents the access of utility personnel to the town’s
water and gas meters, either by way of enclosed fences, locked gates,
shrubbery, or potentially vicious animals, which prevent the entry of utility
personnel to the site of the meters, shall be charged an additional $50 per
month for each month that the utility meter is not able to be read. Said
utility surcharge shall be added to the utility customer’s bill and shall
become part and parcel of the utility charges of said town to be collected in
the same manner as other utility charges.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.21 BILLING FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Customers will be billed for services on a monthly basis. Meters will
be read by utility personnel at the end of each month and said bill shall
include the prior month’s usage of gas. Bills for gas service will be mailed to
customers on or about the ninth day of the month following reading of the
meter. Payment for said gas service is due and payable on or before the twenty-
fifth day of the month following issuance of the bill.
   (B)   Any utility charges remaining unpaid after the twenty-fifth day of the
month following issuance of the bill shall be considered delinquent and shall
be assessed delinquency charges equal to an additional 10% of the unpaid gas
charges, excluding any prior delinquent charges and taxes. An additional
reconnection charge of $40 shall be assessed if gas service is reconnected
after the utility’s disconnection from service due to delinquent bills. All
outstanding gas charges, including past due and the current month’s charges,
any delinquent charges, and any reconnection fee, shall be paid prior to the
service being reconnected.
   (C)   In the event of a failure or inaccuracy of any gas metering device,
the town will compute and bill gas usage based on the average of billings for a
similar, like period of six months prior to said failure.
   (D)   In the case temporary customers such as building contractors, parades,
socials, street fairs, and carnivals, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized
to request payment in advance for service in an amount estimated to be used
thereby.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to proceed and collect any past due
gas utility bills, including delinquencies, through legal process, including
filing suit in the county court system.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015; Ord. 2018-9,
passed 9-18-2018)
§ 52.22 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to discontinue service to a customer for
the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to timely pay charges and bills for service within ten days
of their being due; or
      (2)   Interfering with or destroying any gas appurtenances or appliances
belonging to the utility.
   (B)   Upon the failure of a customer to pay any gas bill within ten days of
its being due, the town has the right to discontinue gas service by shutting
off the service at the gas main. A past due date notation on the customer’s
prior utility bills shall serve as the only notice to the customer of said
shutoff date for nonpayment. Service to the customer shall not be restored
until payment of all outstanding utility charges including the current month’s
bill, any delinquencies, and the reconnection fee is made.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event §
52.03(L) is violated, the town may charge the violator for the costs of any
corrective action and may impose a fine of up to $500, said costs and fine may
be legally pursued and collected by the Clerk-Treasurer who is hereby
authorized to pursue such legal remedies in any court of law to that end.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 2015-2, passed 10-20-2015)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   General provisions
   
53.02   Collection rates
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All solid waste and trash placed for collection and disposal by
residents, businesses, or property owners within the town shall be contained in
a fully enclosed and covered trash container, covered trash can, trash toter,
dumpster, or other enclosed and covered device to prevent trash from being
dispersed throughout the area. Property owners are hereby required to provide
said containment devices for their properties.
   (B)   Owners of multi-family residential or business units shall be required
to furnish suitable trash collection devices for the residents’ or business’
use.
   (C)   All trash containers placed on sidewalks, streets, and alleyways for
collection by the town’s refuse contractor shall be removed from said
sidewalks, streets, and alleyways within 24 hours of collection.
   (D)   Any person who, or business which, places uncontained trash or solid
waste upon the streets, alleys, or public ways of the town; or whose trash is
blown or dispersed upon public or private property in the town; or who fails to
remove the trash containers from sidewalks, streets, and alleyways shall be in
violation of this section.
   (E)   The town, through its police, employees, agents, or attorneys, shall
be authorized to enforce this section through the legal court systems of the
county, pursuant to procedures and policies established by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 3-17-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 COLLECTION RATES.
   The residents of the town shall pay a monthly solid waste collection
disposal fee per unit as set forth below. Said fee shall be added to the town’s
water, gas, and sewer utility bill and collected in the manner required by said
utilities. Should it be necessary to collect said fee through the county court
system, the attorney fees and costs of this action shall be borne by the
resident.
 
Monthly Rate       Per Unit
Beginning 8/1/2019 $11.55
Beginning 1/1/2020 $11.90
Beginning 1/1/2021 $12.25
Beginning 1/1/2020 The higher of $12.25 or at contract price
 
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-15-2013; Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-19-2019; Ord. 2019-4,
passed 7-16-2019)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
53.01(D) shall subject the violator to a fine of $100 per occurrence.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 3-17-2009)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Connection required
   
54.03   Application
   
54.04   Connections and taps
   
54.05   Sewer use
   
54.06   Restricted discharges
   
54.07   Billing for service
   
54.08   Enforcement
Regulating Connections
   
54.20   Definitions
   
54.21   Compliance required
   
54.22   Proof of compliance
   
54.23   Violations
   
54.24   Enforcement
Rates and Charges
   
54.35   General provisions
   
54.36   Sewer deduct meter
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The individual designated and employed by the town to manage
and operate the town’s wastewater treatment plant and system.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 54.02 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Any property producing sewage or similar waste whose boundary lines lie
within 300 feet of a town wastewater collection main shall be required to
connect to the town’s wastewater collection system. Use of privies, cesspools,
septic tanks, and similar structures shall be discontinued and prohibited. The
Clerk-Treasurer may apply to the county courts for an order directing the
required connection to wastewater mains and discontinuance of prohibited uses.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 54.03 APPLICATION.
   Applications for connection to the town’s sewer service shall be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer on forms provided therefor, and shall be accompanied by the
appropriate connection/tap fee, as set forth in §
54.04.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 54.04 CONNECTIONS AND TAPS.
   (A)   All connections/taps to the utility’s sewer mains for sewer service
shall be made pursuant to the town’s requirements and specifications and shall
be made by, and under the direct supervision of, the utility’s Superintendent
or designated personnel.
   (B)   Connections/taps of service lines to the sewer utility’s collection
mains require payment of a connection/tap fee of $455 or the actual cost of
making the connection/tap, whichever amount is greater. Connection/tap fees
shall be paid prior to sewer service being provided.
   (C)   When a connection/tap is to be made pursuant to new construction or
remodeling, a copy of the building or improvement permit issued by the Area
Planning Commission shall be furnished to the town prior to the connection/tap
being made. Each new construction or sewer system rehab will require a separate
backflow or backwater valve and a separate clean-out located on the service
line adjacent to the building to be served, and a separate clean-out located on
the service line adjacent to the utility’s collection main.
   (D)   Each lot or parcel of real estate shall be serviced separately by a
separate service line from the utility’s collection main and said service lines
shall not cross property boundary lines.
   (E)   The town shall have the responsibility for maintaining all collection
mains, equipment, and appurtenances from the wastewater treatment plant to the
customer’s property line. The customer shall have the responsibility for
maintaining all service lines and appurtenances from the utility’s collection
main to the building being served.
   (F)   Sewer main extensions to residential areas, industries, commercial
businesses, or other development areas not previously served by the utility
shall be made at the expense of the owner, builder, or developer, and shall be
made pursuant to the requirements and specifications of the town and shall be
made under the direct supervision of the utility’s Superintendent or designated
personnel. The size of the collection main, the material from which the main is
made, and the type of clean-outs and backflow valves shall be approved by the
utility’s Superintendent prior to installation, but in no event shall the
collection main be less than six inches in diameter.
   (G)   Whenever practical, the building sewer shall be brought into a
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the town’s wastewater
sewer, wastewater carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to a building sewer draining to the town’s sewer.
   (H)   The connection of a building sewer service line into a wastewater
collection main shall conform to the requirements of state and local building
and plumbing codes and other applicable requirements of the town, or to the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM of the WEF. The
connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved in writing by the utility’s Superintendent before installation.
   (I)   Covering up, paving over, enclosing, or in any way interfering with or
damaging manhole covers, sewer collection lines, mains, valves, appurtenances,
or meters is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05 SEWER USE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, to any
collection main any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water. Property owners shall be
required to disconnect downspouts, gutter tie-ins, sump pumps, foundation
drains, and storm drainage lines from the utility’s sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, an unusual
volume of flow or concentration of wastes if it appears likely, in the opinion
of the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, the sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
can endanger life, limb, or public property; can constitute a nuisance; or
violate state or federal law, rules, or regulations. The town may require
violators of this section to disconnect from the town’s sanitary system.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, to any of the
town’s wastewater facilities any substances, materials, waters, or wastes in
quantities or concentrations that will:
      (1)   Create a fire or explosion hazard including, but not limited to,
gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid,
solid, or gas;
      (2)   Cause corrosive damage or hazard to structures, equipment, or
personnel of the wastewater facilities, and in no case will discharge be
allowed with a pH lower than 5.0. These requirements may be modified for
facilities designed to accommodate greater ranges:
         (a)   Having a pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 10.0 for more than 5%
of the time in a 24-hour period; or
         (b)   Having a pH lower than 3.5 or greater than 12.0 for a period
exceeding 15 minutes.
      (3)   Cause obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the operation of wastewater facilities due to accumulation of solid viscous
materials including, but not limited to: wood, glass, ashes, sand, cinders,
unshredded garbage, paper products such as cups, dishes, napkins, milk
containers, and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (4)   Constitute a raw discharge or substantial deviation from normal
rates of discharge (slug discharge) sufficient to cause interference in the
operation and performance of the wastewater facilities;
      (5)   Contain heat in amounts that will accelerate the biodegradator of
wastes, causing excessive amounts of hydrogen sulfide to form in the wastewater
sewer, or inhibit biological activity in the wastewater treatment facilities,
and in no case shall the discharge of heat cause the temperature in the town’s
wastewater sewer to exceed 58°C or 150°F or the temperature of the influent to
the treatment facilities to exceed 40°C or 104°F, unless the facilities can
accommodate such heat;
      (6)   Contain more than 100 milligrams per liter of nonbiodegradable oils
of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (7)   Contain floatable oils, fat, or grease;
      (8)   Contain toxious, malodorous gas, or substance in quantities that
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life;
      (9)   Contain radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as defined by
applicable state and federal guidelines;
      (10)   Contain any garbage that has not been properly shredded; and/or
      (11)   Contain any odor or color-producing substances exceeding
concentration limits that may be established by the utility’s Superintendent to
the town’s NPDES permit.
   (B)   If the drainage or discharge from any establishment causes a deposit,
obstruction, or damage to any of the town’s wastewater facilities, the
utility’s Superintendent shall cause the deposit or obstruction to be promptly
removed or cause the damage to be promptly repaired. The cost for such work,
including materials, labor, and supervision, shall be borne by the person
causing such deposit, obstruction, or damage. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized
to pursue legal action through the county courts to recover such costs.
   (C)   Stormwater shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the utility’s
Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling or
process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent and other
regulatory agencies, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (D)   When required by the utility’s Superintendent, the owner of any
property discharging industrial wastes and the owner of any property containing
multiple-family dwellings shall be required to install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the utility’s
Superintendent. The manhole shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe
and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 54.07 BILLING FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Customers will be billed for services on a monthly basis. Water meters
will be read by utility personnel at the end of each month and said bill shall
include the prior month’s usage of water, which shall be the basis for the
sewer bill. Bills for sewer service will be mailed to customers on or about the
ninth day of the month following reading of the meter. Payment for said sewer
service is due and payable on or before the twenty-fifth day of the month
following reading the water meter.
   (B)   Any utility charges remaining unpaid after the twenty-fifth day of the
month following reading of the water meter shall be considered delinquent and
shall be assessed delinquency charges equal to an additional 10% of the unpaid
balance of the bill, excluding any prior delinquent penalties and taxes.
   (C)   In the event of a water leak in the customer’s water lines, which
water does not enter the town’s sewer system, the sewer charge will be adjusted
to an average of the prior six months’ bills.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to proceed to collect any past due
sewer utility bills, including delinquencies, through legal process, including
filing suit in the county courts.
   (E)   In the case of rental property, both the renter and the property owner
shall be responsible for any unpaid sewer utility bills.
   (F)   If a sewer bill remains unpaid for 30 days, the town is authorized to
discontinue water service to the premises.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996; Ord. 2005-3, passed 5-17-2005)
§ 54.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The utility’s Superintendent, and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all private property through which the town holds an easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on property
subject to said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (B)   The utility’s Superintendent and designated personnel shall have
authority to inquire into any industrial, manufacturing, or commercial process,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries, to determine the effect, concentration, and content of the final
source of discharge to the sewers for waste treatment or waterways for
drainage.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Superintendent or authorized employees shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises as established by the owner and the owner
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town employees, and the town
shall indemnify the owner against loss or damage to its property by town
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the owner and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the owner to maintain safe conditions.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of this subchapter or any requirement of
a permit issued hereunder may be served with a written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for compliance.
Any such notice shall be given in writing and served in person or by registered
or certified mail. The notice shall be sent to the last address of the violator
known to the Clerk-Treasurer. When the address is unknown, service may be made
on the owner of record of the property involved. If satisfactory action is not
taken in the time allotted by the notice, enforcement action shall be
implemented.
   (E)   The town shall have the authority to take all necessary legal action
to enforce this subchapter, including pursuing legal remedies in the county
courts.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996)
REGULATING CONNECTIONS
§ 54.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The town’s Public Works Board.
   COMPLIANCE. Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter set forth
herein and §§
54.01 through
54.08, and any amendments thereto.
   EMPLOYEES. Such employees, designated representatives, or officials of the
town’s wastewater treatment utility as the Board shall from time to time
designate and utilize in making the inspection and/or tests hereafter described
in carrying out the other duties as prescribed herein to be performed on behalf
of the town.
   SYSTEM. All of the facilities owned by the town for collecting, pumping,
treating, and disposing of sewage within the sanitary sewer service area of the
town.
   USER. The owner, lessee, or occupant of the property on which the buildings
and/or appurtenances that are connected to the system are located.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 54.21 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All users of the sanitary sewer treatment and collection system of the town
shall, on or before September 1, 2007, bring themselves into voluntary
compliance with the terms and conditions of the ordinances of the town
governing connection to, and use of, the sanitary sewer treatment and
collection system of the town including, but not limited to, the requirements
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 54.22 PROOF OF COMPLIANCE.
   Upon expiration of the term provided for in §
54.21, a user utilizing the system of the town may avoid the imposition or levy
of any fines, fees, charges, or penalties with regard to such use and
utilization by presentation of proof of compliance and the continued compliance
with the provisions of the town’s ordinances and any amendments thereto, which
proof shall consist of and include compliance with the following procedures and
conditions as to each building and/or appurtenances connected thereto.
   (A)   Upon request by the Sewer System Superintendent or one of the system’s
designated employees, either in writing or by personal contact, each user
utilizing the system shall, within 30 business days of the adoption of this
subchapter, as to each building and/or appurtenance so connected to the system,
execute a “grant of inspection” to the town to permit entry upon the property
served by the system on which the building and/or appurtenances are located to
inspect and/or perform such tests as may be deemed necessary by the town to
verify and prove compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The grant of inspection shall be deemed to include the right of
periodic inspections and/or tests thereafter as may be reasonably determined to
be necessary by the town to maintain, monitor, and ensure continued compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Once a grant of inspection has been executed, it shall be deemed to be
an ongoing authorization as provided for herein. Once a grant of inspection has
been executed, it may not be revoked by the original grantor.
   (D)   Reasonable written notice of at least 24 hours shall be given by the
town officials or designated employees to the user of the time and place at
which the inspections and/or tests provided for herein are to be made.
   (E)   There shall be no fees charged for any inspections and/or tests
conducted and performed by the designated representatives.
   (F)   In the event a user utilizing the system executes the grant of
inspection and the town determines that said buildings and/or appurtenances are
in compliance, no surcharge, fines, or other penalties shall be imposed or
levied upon the user; provided, however, that the town shall have the right and
authority, pursuant to the grant of inspection executed as required hereby and
the terms of this subchapter, to conduct additional inspections and/or tests at
a later date to determine that compliance still exists.
   (G)   In the event a user utilizing the system fails or refuses to execute a
grant of inspection to the town for the purposes provided for herein, a
surcharge of $25 per month shall be imposed in addition to all other charges
authorized and imposed under any applicable ordinances of the town, commencing
at the next billing period following the date of the failure and refusal to
execute the grant of inspection to the town. If the user continues to refuse to
execute a grant of inspection after a period of 60 days, the surcharge shall be
raised to $50 per month.
   (H)   In the event a user utilizing the system executes the grant of
inspection and the town inspects, conducts tests, and determines that the
buildings and/or appurtenances of said user are not in compliance with §§
54.01 through
54.08 and this subchapter, as amended, then and in such event the town, by its
designated employees, shall provide written notice of the results of the
inspection and tests to the user who shall be required to permanently comply
with the applicable provisions of the ordinances within 45 days of the date of
the notice.
   (I)   In the event that the building and/or appurtenances of the user are
determined not to be in compliance with §§
54.01 through
54.08 or this subchapter, and any amendments thereto, and the time period
referred to herein for corrective work expires and the user refuses or fails to
bring buildings and/or appurtenances in compliance with the aforementioned
ordinance, a surcharge of $50 per month per billing account for such user shall
be imposed in addition to all other charges authorized and imposed under any
applicable ordinances of the town, commencing at the next billing period
following the date of the inspection and testing by the utility wherein such
noncompliance was determined for permitting such violation to continue to
exist.
   (J)   The surcharge referred to herein shall be removed only upon the
following conditions:
      (1)   The user utilizing the system executes a grant of inspection to the
town or takes the required corrective action required to bring about
compliance;
      (2)   The town inspects and/or performs tests on the buildings and/or
appurtenances connected to the system and determines that the buildings and/or
appurtenances so connected to the system are in compliance; and
      (3)   The payment in full of all surcharges billed to the user utilizing
the system until the time period the buildings and/or appurtenances in question
are determined to be in compliance.
   (K)   The failure or refusal by the user utilizing the system to execute a
grant of inspection or to cause his or her buildings and/or appurtenances to be
in compliance, after being determined not to be in compliance within the
statutory guidelines from date of the failure, refusal, or notice of non-
compliance, shall cause the town, by its Wastewater Treatment Plant
Superintendent or other town official, to prepare a notice of violation of town
ordinance as to the property in violation of this subchapter and §§
54.01 through
54.08, and to file the notice for recording in the office of the Recorder of
the county. The notice of violation shall be in conformance with applicable
state statutes.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 54.23 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In the event a user is found to be in compliance and subsequent
inspections and/or tests determine that non-compliance now exists, the terms
and provisions of §
54.22(D) and (H) through (J) thereof shall be applicable, except that in
addition to the surcharge to be charged in accordance with §
54.22(I), if any, the user shall be liable for payment of a sum equal to the
sum of the months since the original determination of compliance was made,
multiplied by the monthly surcharge amount provided for in §
54.22(I), for knowingly, willfully, and/or intentionally creating or permitting
such violation to commence and continued.
   (B)   In the event a user is found to be in a state of non-compliance a
second or subsequent time, then the user shall be liable for the payment of a
sum equal to $1,000, plus an amount equal to the sum of the months since the
original non-compliance was corrected (and if never corrected, from the date of
such non-compliance determination), multiplied by the monthly surcharge amount
provided for in §
54.22(I) or (G), for knowingly, willfully, and/or intentionally permitting such
violation to commence and continue.
   (C)   Any user violating any provisions of this subchapter shall be liable
to the town for any expenses, costs, and fees including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees occasioned or caused to the town by reason of seeking
enforcement of such ordinances against the violator, as well as for any losses
or damages occasioned or caused to the town or the system’s users by reason of
such violation.
   (D)   The Town Council and the Public Works Board shall have full power and
authority to invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement
of this subchapter. In addition, the Board is hereby authorized to institute
proceedings on behalf of the town in the circuit or superior courts in the
county for prohibitory or mandatory injunctive relief to prevent or discontinue
any violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 54.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be deemed supplemental to all other ordinances
and provisions thereof for enforcement and compliance purposes, and shall not
be deemed to amend or rescind said other ordinances and provisions; further,
that any fines, fees, charges, or penalties levied or imposed pursuant to this
subchapter shall be in addition to any fines, fees, charges, or penalties
levied or imposed pursuant to all other ordinances and provisions thereof.
   (B)   The Town Council, by passage hereof, has determined that the measures
hereinbefore set out are a reasonable means of ensuring compliance with the
subchapter and any amendments thereto, and further that the same are necessary
to protect and ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the
town and the area served by the system.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 6-19-2007)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 54.35 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   For the use and the service rendered by said sewage works, rates and charges
shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real
estate, or building that is connected with the town's sanitary sewage system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town. Such rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall
be in an amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   Metered water usage. The sewage rates and charges shall be based on
the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject to such
rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter there in use,
subject to the minimum charge. For the purpose of billing and collecting the
charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or period
equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates
and charges shall be determined is as follows:
Metered Rates  Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV    Phase V
Per Month      5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 1/1/2027 to 12/
(rate per      12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  12/31/2026  31/2027
1,000 gallons)
Metered Rates Per   Phase I     Phase II    Phase III   Phase IV    Phase V
Month               5/1/2023 to 1/1/2024 to 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026 to 1/1/2027 to
(rate per 1,000     12/31/2023  12/31/2024  12/31/2025  12/31/2026  12/31/2027
gallons)
First 15,000        $16.28      $16.69      $17.11      $17.54      $17.98
gallons
Next 15,000 gallons $14.86      $15.23      $15.61      $16.00      $16.40
Next 15,000 gallons $13.57      $13.91      $14.26      $14.62      $14.99
Next 55,000 gallons $12.22      $12.53      $12.84      $13.16      $13.49
Over 100,000        $9.56       $10.48      $11.44      $12.45      $13.49
gallons
Minimum charge per                                               
month
   All customers
   2,500 gallons $40.70      $41.73      $42.78      $43.85      $44.95
allowed
 
   (B)   Sewer tap fee. From the main sewer line to the property line: $800 or
the actual cost of material and labor, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2023-2, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 54.36 SEWER DEDUCT METER.
   (A)   The town will make available to its water and sewer customers special
water meters, hereinafter referred to as “sewer deduct” meters, to be attached
to the customer’s outside water spigot and used to calculate water usage
outside of the customer’s business or residence which does not enter the town’s
sewage collection and treatment system.
   (B)   Usage by the customers of the sewer deduct meters shall be permissible
from April 1 through September 30 of each year.
   (C)   The water customer is responsible for picking up the sewer deduct
meter from the Utility Clerk at the town hall in the spring and returning it to
the Utility Clerk at the town hall in the fall of each year.
   (D)   The water customer is responsible for the full cost of the sewer
deduct meter and any damage, repair, maintenance, or replacement of the meter.
If the meter is damaged, the customer is responsible for replacing it at his or
her own expense.
   (E)   Sewer deduct meters may not be lent to, or used by, other water
customers and must remain with the particular real estate for which it was
originally supplied.
   (F)   Customers who utilize the sewer deduct meters for purposes of reducing
their sewer bills are responsible for reading the sewer deduct meter on the
last day of each month and calling the Utility Clerk on the last day of each
month with the metered usage. If the last day of the month falls on a weekend
or a holiday, then usage must be reported to the Utility Clerk on the next
available day on which the utility office is open. Failure to provide usage to
the Utility Clerk on the last day of each month will result in no sewer
deduction being allowed for that month.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 5-17-2005) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In the event of a violation of §
54.04(I), the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to collect said costs of corrective
action by legal action in the county courts.
      (2)   Any person who continues to violate the discharge provisions of §§
54.05,
54.06, or
54.08 may be charged with commission of a misdemeanor and, after conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000 for each day the violation
continues or may be subject to disconnection from the town’s wastewater
facilities.
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of §
54.36 will result in a fine of $500 to be added to the customer’s sewer utility
bill and collected as such utility bills are collected.
(Ord. 1996-25, passed 12-17-1996; Ord. 2005-5, passed 5-17-2005)
CHAPTER 55: WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
55.001   Purpose and policy
   
55.002   Administration
   
55.003   Abbreviations
   
55.004   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
55.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
55.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
55.017   Local limits
   
55.018   Board of Public Works’ right of revision
   
55.019   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
55.030   Pretreatment facilities
   
55.031   Additional pretreatment measures
   
55.032   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
55.033   Hauled wastewater
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
55.045   Wastewater analysis
   
55.046   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
55.047   Wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections
   
55.048   Wastewater discharge permitting: new connections
   
55.049   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
55.050   Application signatories and certification
   
55.051   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
55.065   Wastewater discharge permit duration
   
55.066   Wastewater discharge permit contents
   
55.067   Wastewater discharge permit appeals
   
55.068   Wastewater discharge permit modification
   
55.069   Wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
55.070   Wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
55.071   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance
   
55.072   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
55.085   Periodic compliance reports
   
55.086   Reports of changed conditions
   
55.087   Reports of potential problems
   
55.088   Reports from unpermitted users
   
55.089   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
55.090   Analytical requirements
   
55.091   Sample collection
   
55.092   Timing
   
55.093   Recordkeeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
55.110   Right of entry: inspection and sampling
   
55.111   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
55.125   Confidential information
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
55.140   Notification of violation
   
55.141   Agreed orders
   
55.142   Show cause hearing
   
55.143   Compliance orders
   
55.144   Cease and desist orders
   
55.145   Administrative fees
   
55.146   Emergency suspensions
   
55.147   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
55.160   Injunctive relief
   
55.161   Remedies nonexclusive
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
55.175   Upset
   
55.176   Prohibited discharge standards
   
55.177   Bypass
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
55.190   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
55.191   Public noticing of SNC discharges
   
55.192   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the town and enables the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works, and the generation of biosolids used for
beneficial agronomic reuse pursuant to 327 I.A.C. 6.1;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and
biosolids from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit (No. IN0021695) conditions, biosolids use and
disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the
publicly owned treatment works is subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. The chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits;
provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities; establishes
administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Wastewater Superintendent shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the Wastewater Superintendent may be
delegated by the Wastewater Superintendent to other town personnel.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD5         Biochemical oxygen demand, five day
C.F.R.       Code of Federal Regulations
CBOD5        Chemical Biological Oxygen Demand, five day
COD          Chemical oxygen demand, five day
USEPA        U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington D.C.
USEPA Reg. V U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region V - Chicago, Illinois
FOG          Fats, oil, and grease
gpd          gallons per day
I.C.         Indiana Code
I/I          Inflow and infiltration (Clear Water Flow)
IDEM         Indiana Department of Environmental Management
IWP          Industrial wastewater discharge permit
mg/l         milligrams per liter
NPDES        National pollutant discharge elimination system
O&G          Oil and grease
POTW         Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA         Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC          Standard Industrial Classification
SNC          Significant noncompliance
SRU          Significant industrial user
TSS          Total suspended solids
U.S.C.       United States Code
WDP          Wastewater discharge permit
 
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Regional Administration of U.S. EPA Region V.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3), above, may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained
in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; the Clean Air Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §§
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific category
of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405
through 471.
   CLEAR WATER FLOW. Groundwater or precipitation related water which enters
the sanitary sewer collection system through pipe defects (infiltration) or
conduits (inflow).
   COMBINED SEWER. Sewer which carries both sanitary and stormwater flow by
design.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLING. Method of sampling which weights sample volume with
discharge flow rate.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Region V Water Management Division Director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to
the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the
Act.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger.
   INFLOW AND INFILTRATION or I/I. Inflow is discharge of any kinds of water
into sewer lines from such sources as roof leaders, cellar and yard area
drains, foundation drains, commercial and industrial “clean water” discharges,
or drains from springs and swampy areas. Infiltration is the discharge of
groundwater into sewers.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event
   INTERFERENCE.
      (1)   A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the:
         (a)   Treatment processes or operations;
         (b)   Sludge processes; or
         (c)   Selected sludge;
            1.   Use; or
            2.   Disposal methods;
      of a POTW.
      (2)   The inhibition or disruption under division (1) must:
         (a)   Cause a violation of a requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; or
         (b)   Prevent the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge
disposal method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
            1.   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345).
            2.   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901),
including:
               a.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
               b.   The rules contained in a state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. 6941).
            3.   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401).
            4.   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent factors, such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division (3).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, are a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., ammonia-nitrogen, pH,
temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD5, COD5, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
      (1)   State pretreatment standards as established in 327 IAC 5-18-8;
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 IAC 5-18-2; and
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards incorporated by
reference in 327 IAC 5-18-10.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
55.015.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works owned by the state
or a municipality, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. The term also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
a POTW treatment plant. POTW also means the municipality that has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 IAC 5-18-10.
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the POTW;
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the POTW’s operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 IAC 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 IAC 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet Part III.A.9.b.(3) of this permit.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). The status of an industrial user that has
caused or allowed a violation that meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as those
in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken during a six month period
exceed, by any magnitude, a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement,
including instantaneous limits.
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as
defined by 40 CFR 403.3(I), multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals one
and four-tenths (1.4) for biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids,
fats, oil, and grease and one and two-tenths (1.2) for all other pollutants
except pH).
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 CFR 403.3(I), such as daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard that the POTW determines has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through,
including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public.
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has:
         (a)   Caused imminent endangerment to human health, welfare, or the
environment; or
         (b)   Resulted in the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority under
327 IAC 5-19-3(1)(G) to halt or prevent such a discharge.
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for:
         (a)   Starting construction;
         (b)   Completing construction; or
         (c)   Attaining final compliance.
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports, such as the following:
         (a)   Baseline monitoring reports.
         (b)   Ninety day compliance reports.
         (c)   Periodic self-monitoring reports.
         (d)   Reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of BMPs, that the POTW determine will adversely affect the operation
or implementation of the approved POTW pretreatment program.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
55.015.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Osgood under the jurisdiction of the Town Council.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is an unintentional incident
and temporary noncompliance with categorical and/or permitted pretreatment
standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of industrial user.
An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational
error, improperly designed treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the town to a user of the
wastewater utility which establishes specific conditions and requirements.
   WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the Town Council who is
charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or a duly
authorized representative.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
         (a)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that
could pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of
the POTW.
         (b)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (c)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
         (e)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) and ammonia-nitrogen, released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other
pollutants, will cause interference with the POTW;
         (f)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
         (g)   Petroleum oil, no biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         (h)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW sewers including in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems;
         (i)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Wastewater Superintendent in accordance with §
55.033;
         (j)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance or repair;
         (k)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit (No. IN0021695);
         (l)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (m)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, demonized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Wastewater Superintendent;
         (n)   Sledges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         (o)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Wastewater Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
         (p)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test; and
         (q)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming and/or toxicity to the biological treatment process in
the POTW.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405 through 471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Wastewater Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Wastewater
Superintendent shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.017 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limitations are established to protect against
pass through interference and biosolids quality. No person shall discharge
wastewater containing in excess of the following daily maximum concentrations
based upon grab.
Daily Maximum Concentration Limitations
Daily Maximum Concentration Limitations
Arsenic    .064 mg/l
(total)
Cadmium    .04 mg/l
(total)
Copper     1.23 mg/l
Cyanide    .27 mg/l
(total)
Hex.       .3 mg/l
Chromium
Lead       .31 mg/l
(total)
Molybdenum .10 mg/l
(total)
Nickel     .70 mg/l
Oil &      100 mg/l
grease [1]
Selenium   .14mg/l
Silver     2mg/l
Total      1.0 mg/l
Chromium
Zinc       2.5mg/l
(total)
[1]   As an alternative to the total oil and grease limitations established by
this section, the Town Council may establish in an IWP a limitation of 50 mg/
l for non-polar grease. The alternative limitation is subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   The user submits an application for the alternative limit;
      2.   The user provides information regarding the user’s products,
processes, and operations that shows to the Town Council’ satisfaction that the
oil and grease discharged by the user is predominantly of animal or vegetable
origin;
      3.   The user shows that the oil and grease in the user’s discharges is
not visible, free, or floating at 50°F at any time;
      4.   The user has sampling facilities that allow for both, visual
inspection of the user’s discharge and using the equipment necessary for
collection samples for floatable oil and grease;
      5.   The oil and grease in the user’s discharge is not related to past
instances of obstruction, interference, or pass through;
      6.   Users subject to the alternative limit shall continue to operate and
maintain grease traps and any other oil and grease separation and treatment
equipment and shall continue all existing practices that reduce discharges of
oil and grease;
      7.   If the Town Council determines that a user subject to the
alternative limit has caused, alone or in conjunction with other discharges,
obstruction, interference, or pass through, then the user shall comply with the
total oil and grease limitation or another appropriate limitation established
by the Board in the user’s IWP; and
      8.   Any other appropriate conditions set forth in the user’s SIU.
 
   (B)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for “total” metal
unless indicated otherwise. The Wastewater Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to, or in place of, the concentration-based limitations
above.
   (C)   Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment
standard (NCPS) for a particular user, the said standard, if more stringent
then the limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that category,
shall, when effective, immediately supersede the limitations and conditions
imposed under this chapter. The Wastewater Superintendent shall notify all
known affected users of the applicable permitting and reporting requirements
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.018 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS’ RIGHT OF REVISION.
    The Board of Public Works reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or
in wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW. The Town Council may also accept or deny any new or
increased discharges from any indirect discharger.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.019 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Wastewater Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other
cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 55.030 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
55.015 within the time limitations specified by EPA, IDEM, or the Wastewater
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Wastewater Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable
to the Wastewater Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The
review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a
discharge acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.031 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Wastewater Superintendent may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial
waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the
POTW and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require any person discharging into
the POTW to install and maintain, on his or her property and at their expense,
a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (D)   Users which operate vehicular wash facilities shall provide, operate,
and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Wastewater Superintendent
to control solids and preclude the discharge of toxics to the POTW.
   (E)   Users which operate food preparation facilities shall provide,
operate, and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Wastewater
Superintendent to control the discharge of greases, fats, oils, and food solids
to the POTW.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.032 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   At least once every two years, the Wastewater Superintendent shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan. The Wastewater Superintendent may require any user to develop,
submit for approval, and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the Wastewater
Superintendent may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/
slug control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including no routine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)    Procedures for immediately notifying the Wastewater Superintendent of
any accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
55.087; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.033 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Wastewater haulers shall have a valid wastewater hauler discharge
permit before discharging wastes to the POTW. Each permitted wastewater hauling
vehicle shall prominently display a number issued by the town on both doors of
the vehicle cab. Such numbers shall be removable only by destruction.
   (B)   Wastewater may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Wastewater Superintendent, and at such times as are
established by the Wastewater Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
55.015 through
55.019 or any other requirements established by the town.
   (C)   Prior to being issued a hauler discharge permit, the following
conditions shall be met.
      (1)   Each truck shall have a sight glass calibrated in 100-gallon
increments.
      (2)   Each vehicle shall be equipped to use the quick disconnect couplers
at the wastewater hauler dumping station or at a point designated by the
Wastewater Superintendent.
      (3)   Each vehicle shall maintain records evidencing the origin of the
wastewater to be discharged and each driver shall record such information on
forms provided by the town.
   (D)   All procedures for discharging, for cleanliness, and for general
sanitary operation on town property as prescribed by the town shall be strictly
adhered to by all wastewater haulers delivering wastewater to the designated
town dumping station or at a point designated by the Wastewater Superintendent.
   (E)   Wastewater from a domestic level user shall not be mixed with
wastewater from an industrial user. Vehicles hauling wastewater from an
industrial user shall not be used to haul wastewater from a domestic level user
for disposal at the POTW.
   (F)   Wastewater from an industrial user shall identify in writing the type
of industry, known or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes are
RCRA hazardous wastes.
   (G)    In addition to remedies available to the town elsewhere in this
chapter, failure of a wastewater hauler to comply with the provisions set out
herein shall be grounds for revocation of his or her hauler’s discharge permit
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
§ 55.045 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Wastewater Superintendent, a user must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days
of the request. The Wastewater Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form
for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.046 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)    No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the Wastewater
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
55.047 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein. The
Wastewater Superintendent may also accept or deny any new or increased
discharges from any indirect discharger.
   (B)    The Wastewater Superintendent may require other users to obtain
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter. The Wastewater Superintendent may also accept or deny any application
for an individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permitted to the sanctions set out in §§
55.140 through
55.147,
55.160,
55.161,
55.175 through
55.177. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of
its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and local law.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.047 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
30 days after said date, apply to the Wastewater Superintendent for a
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
55.049, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
30 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Wastewater Superintendent.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.048 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
55.049, must be filed at least 30 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.049 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. The Wastewater Superintendent may require all users to
submit as part of an application the following information:
      (1)   All information required by §
55.085(B);
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Wastewater
Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.050 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.051 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Wastewater Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user
and may require additional information. Within 15 days of receipt of a complete
wastewater discharge permit application, the Wastewater Superintendent will
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The Wastewater
Superintendent may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS
§ 55.065 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit, unless
administratively extended by the Wastewater Superintendent in writing. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at
the discretion of the Wastewater Superintendent. Each wastewater discharge
permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.066 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Wastewater Superintendent to prevent pass through
or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)    A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the Town Council in accordance
with §
55.069, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state, and local law; and
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Wastewater
Superintendent to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal
laws, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.067 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS.
   The Wastewater Superintendent shall provide public notice of the issuance of
a wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may petition the
Wastewater Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge
permit within 15 days of notice of its issuance.
   (A)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (B)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   (C)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   (D)   If the Wastewater Superintendent fails to act within 30 days, a
request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to
reconsider a wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge
permit, or not to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered
final administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
   (E)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
County Court within 30 days.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.068 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Wastewater Superintendent may modify a wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the town’s POTW biosolids generation, town personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.069 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 60 days’ advance notice to the
Wastewater Superintendent and the Wastewater Superintendent approves the
wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Wastewater
Superintendent must include a written certification by the new owner or
operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.070 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Wastewater Superintendent of significant
changes to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)    Failure to provide prior notification to the Wastewater
Superintendent of changed conditions pursuant to §
55.086;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Wastewater Superintendent or his or her agent
timely access to the facility premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.071 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §
55.049, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.072 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)    If another municipality, or sewer district contributes wastewater to
the POTW, the Wastewater Superintendent shall enter into an intermunicipal or
interdistrict agreement with the contributing entity.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Wastewater Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing entity:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing entity;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing entity
that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Wastewater Superintendent may deem
necessary.
   (C)   An agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall contain the
following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing entity to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits which
are at least as stringent as those set out in §
55.018. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town’s ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing entity to submit a revised user
inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Wastewater Superintendent;
and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing
municipality and the Wastewater Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing entity to provide the Wastewater
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing entity
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
entity’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing entity’s discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Wastewater Superintendent access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing entity’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Wastewater Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal or interdistrict agreement.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.085 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Wastewater Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June
and December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
55.050.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Wastewater
Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed in §
55.091, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.086 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Wastewater Superintendent of any planned
significant changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the
nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the
change.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
55.049.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit
under §
55.051 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
55.068 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.087 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the Wastewater
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Wastewater Superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred
as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.088 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Wastewater Superintendent as the Wastewater
Superintendent may require.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.089 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Wastewater Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Wastewater Superintendent within 30 days
after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not required to resample if
the Wastewater Superintendent monitors at the user's facility at least once a
month, or if the Wastewater Superintendent samples between the user's initial
sampling and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.090 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.091 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the Wastewater
Superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum
of four grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease (O & G), temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.092 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern. Facsimiles may be accepted on a case-by-case basis if
approved by the Wastewater Superintendent.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.093 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Wastewater
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 55.110 RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The permittee shall allow the Wastewater Superintendent, or an authorized
representative, upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may
be required by law, to:
   (A)   Enter upon the permittee’s premises where a regulated facility or
activity is located or conducted, or where records must be kept under the
conditions of this chapter;
   (B)   Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be
kept under the conditions of this chapter;
   (C)   Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including
monitoring and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or
required under this chapter;
   (D)   Sample or monitor, for the purposes of assuring permit compliance, any
substances or parameters at any locations; and
   (E)   Inspect any production, manufacturing, fabricating, or storage area
where pollutants, regulated under the permit, could originate, be stored, or be
discharged to the sewer system.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.111 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Wastewater Superintendent has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with this
chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the Wastewater
Superintendent may seek issuance of a search warrant from the County Court.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 55.125 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Wastewater Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Wastewater Superintendent, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted
at the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data” as defined by 40
C.F.R. § 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information and will be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 55.140 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may serve upon that user a written
notice of violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Wastewater Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Wastewater Superintendent or the town to take any action,
including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first
issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.141 AGREED ORDERS.
   The Wastewater Superintendent may enter into agreed orders, assurances of
voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with
any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific
action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and
effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
55.143 and
55.144 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.142 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Wastewater Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Wastewater Superintendent and show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior to the hearing. Such notice
may be served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.143 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.144 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Wastewater Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease
and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.145 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)    When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may impose a fine of not more than
$2,500 per day, per violation for a first violation nor more than $7,500 per
day, per violation for subsequent violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8
(a)(10)(B).
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.8% per month. A lien against the user’s
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Wastewater Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of
the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request
has merit, the Wastewater Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter.
In the event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any
interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Wastewater
Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the town.
   (D)   In determining the amount of fines, the Wastewater Superintendent
shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including but not limited
to the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of
the violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation,
corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any
other factor as the Wastewater Supervisor requires.
   (E)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.146 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s
discharge, after formal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Wastewater Superintendent may also immediately suspend
a user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Wastewater Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The
Wastewater Superintendent may allow the user to recommence its discharge when
the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Wastewater Superintendent
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
in §
55.147 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Wastewater Superintendent prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under §§
55.142 or
55.147.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.147 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
55.070, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
55.030 through
55.033.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
55.142 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Wastewater Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 55.160 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may petition the County Court
through the town’s Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The Wastewater Superintendent may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.161 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The Wastewater
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the Wastewater
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Wastewater Superintendent is empowered to take more than
one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 55.175 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the Wastewater
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.176 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
55.015(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
55.015(B)(1)(c) through (B)(1)(p) if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit (No. IN0021695), and in the case
of interference, was in compliance with applicable biosolids use or disposal
requirements pursuant to 327 I.A.C. 6.1.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.177 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Wastewater Superintendent, at least ten days before
the date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Wastewater Superintendent of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Wastewater Superintendent may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
   (D)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Wastewater Superintendent may take
an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Wastewater Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Wastewater Superintendent
determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1)
above.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 55.190 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
    The Town Council may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of
setting up and operating the town’s pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction:
   (D)   Fees to filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the Town Council may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the town.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.191 PUBLIC NOTICING OF SNC DISCHARGES.
   The Wastewater Superintendent shall, on a yearly basis, publish a listing of
individual significant industrial users (SIUs) permitted by the town found to
be in significant noncompliance (SNC) during the previous 12-month period. The
notice shall be placed in the legal notice section of the newspaper of largest
circulation within the town. This listing shall include the name of SIU and the
basis for SNC determination.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 55.192 EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This chapter shall become immediately effective upon its adoption by the
Town Council, enrollment in the book of ordinances, and publication of notice
as required by law.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-12-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Semi trailer traffic prohibited
   
70.02   Size of stop signs
   
70.03   Sidewalks or public grassy areas
   
70.04   Public right-of-way obstructions
   
70.05   Engine-braking and jake-braking prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SEMI TRAILER TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All semi trailer traffic is hereby prohibited on the streets and
alleys of the town not otherwise designated as state, county, or United States
highways, except Wilson Street, Eckert Street, and Railroad Avenue within the
town.
   (B)   All semi trailer parking is hereby prohibited on the streets and
alleys within the town not otherwise designated as state, county, or United
States highways.
   (C)   A SEMI TRAILER is hereby defined as every vehicle without motive
power, designed for carrying property, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle,
and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests
upon, or is carried by, another vehicle, except every pole trailer, every two-
wheeled homemade trailer, and a semi trailer used exclusively for carrying
passengers.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 4-16-1985) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SIZE OF STOP SIGNS.
   The town hereby adopts a 24-inch stop sign as the appropriately sized sign
placed at all stop intersections on the town streets.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 70.03 SIDEWALKS OR PUBLIC GRASSY AREAS.
   (A)   With the exception of town maintenance, no person shall park, operate
or drive any motor or animal drawn vehicle upon, along or over any sidewalk or
public grassy areas, except in crossing the same at driveways, or at other
places where so required to enter any premises.
   (B)   Any vehicle as hereinbefore described which is found to be parked,
placed or positioned in violation of this section shall be towed away at the
expense of either the legal or beneficial owner of such vehicle.
   (C)   The Police Department and its duly authorized employees are charged
with the duty of enforcing this section. The Police Department is authorized
and empowered to tow or to have towed any vehicles found to be in violation of
this section and to levy and to collect monetary expenses or charges which it
or its agents may incur while enforcing this section.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-20-2018; Ord. 2019-5, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   With the exception of town maintenance, no person shall cause or
permit any structure or obstruction to be placed in, hang over, or otherwise
encroach on a public right-of-way (street, sidewalks, alley, or other right-of-
way), whether such obstruction be a permanent structure, or temporary
obstruction, including, but not limited to, basketball and/or other sports
goals, signs, mulch, dirt, or other piles of landscaping or other materials.
   (B)   Any vehicle as hereinbefore described which is found to be parked,
placed or positioned in violation of this section shall be towed away at the
expense of either the legal or beneficial owner of such vehicle.
   (C)   The Police Department and its duly authorized employees are charged
with the duty of enforcing this section. The Police Department is authorized
and empowered to tow or to have towed any vehicles found to be in violation of
this section and to levy and to collect monetary expenses or charges which it
or its agents may incur while enforcing this section.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-20-2018; Ord. 2019-5, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 ENGINE-BRAKING AND JAKE-BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ENGINE-BRAKING or JAKE-BRAKING. The use or operation of any mechanical
exhaust device designed to aid in the braking, decompression, or deceleration
of any motor vehicle which results in the excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor
vehicle to use, or to operate or to cause to be used or operated, at any time
and on any street or road over which the town has jurisdiction, any mechanical
exhaust or decompression device which results in the practice known as engine-
braking or commonly known as jake-braking.
   (C)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
application of un-muffled compression brakes where necessary for the protection
of persons and/or property which cannot be avoided by application of an
alternative braking system. Noise caused by the application of engine
compression brakes, otherwise known as engine-braking and commonly known as
jake-braking which is effectively muffled or if the application is necessary
for the health, safety, and welfare of the community is exempt from the
provisions of this section. Sounds created by emergency equipment for emergency
purposes are also exempt.
   (D)   Posting of signs. The Highway Department is hereby authorized and
directed to post, at reasonable locations within the town, signs indicating the
prohibition of engine-braking and/or jake-braking.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may also be subject
to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each violation of §
70.01 shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 4-16-1985; Ord. 2019-5, passed 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Operations
   
71.04   Street crossings
   
71.05   Duty to stop
   
71.06   Responsibility
   
71.07   Parental responsibility
   
71.08   Impoundment
   
71.09   Effective date
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the operation of golf
carts, low-speed vehicles, and off-road vehicles within the corporate limits of
the town, pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3(a)(14) and I.C. 9-21-1-3.3.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. A four-wheeled gas or electrically powered motor vehicle
steered by a steering wheel with a maximum design speed of not more than 35
mph; with operational and equipment specifications described in 49 C.F.R. §
571.500; that is equipped with headlamps, front and rear turn signal lamps,
tail lamps and stop lamps, reflex reflectors, exterior or interior mirrors,
brakes, a windshield, a vehicle identification number, and a safety belt
installed at each designated seating position; and that has not been privately
assembled. This definition includes utility vehicles such as mules as well as
motorized carts as defined under I.C. 14-19-1-0.5.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle steered by handle bars which is
capable of cross-country travel without benefit of a road or trail, on or
immediately over land, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain.
It includes, but is not limited to, a multi-tract or multi-wheel drive or low-
pressure tire vehicle.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to control the operation of a golf cart, low-
speed vehicle, or off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a golf
cart, low-speed vehicle, or off-road vehicle.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The portion of a street or highway less the roadway and any
shoulders.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway ordinarily used for vehicular
travel.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   UNQUALIFIED OPERATOR. Any person operating a golf cart, low-speed vehicle,
or off-road vehicle who does not possess a valid driver’s license or who does
not carry proof of liability insurance.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.03 OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No off-road vehicle may be operated within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   Within the town, no golf cart, motorized cart, or low-speed vehicle
shall be operated:
      (1)   That is not equipped with operating headlights and tail lights, if
operated after dark;
      (2)   That is not insured for liability coverage;
      (3)   Except for golf carts, that does not display a Department of
Natural Resources sticker indicating registration through the Department of
Natural Resources;
      (4)   Except in a single file, with the flow of traffic, and at the far
right-hand side of the alley, street, or highway being traveled;
      (5)   In a careless or reckless manner, or in any way that endangers any
person or any property;
      (6)   At a rate of speed greater than the posted speed limits and in no
event greater than 30 mph;
      (7)   By anyone under the influence of intoxicating liquor or any
controlled substance, or by anyone whose ability to operate said golf cart,
low-speed vehicle, or off-road vehicle may be impaired thereby;
      (8)   By anyone transporting thereon a firearm, unless the same be
securely encased; and
      (9)   By an unqualified operator, as defined in §
71.02.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 STREET CROSSINGS.
   All golf carts and low-speed vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
proceeding, at right angles, across any public sidewalk, alley, street,
highway, or intersection. All golf carts or low-speed vehicles yield the right-
of-way to car, truck, and pedestrian traffic. Towing of sleds, toboggans, or
other such devices is prohibited.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 DUTY TO STOP.
   Upon request or signal of a police officer, a golf cart or low-speed vehicle
operator shall immediately stop his or her golf cart or low-speed vehicle in a
safe place and outside of the flow of traffic. If the police officer directs
that the golf cart or low-speed vehicle be removed from the streets, the
operator shall take such vehicle home and park it.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.06 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a golf cart or low-speed vehicle involved in any accident
resulting in any property damage, personal injury, or death shall report such
accident to the local police immediately.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.07 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any parent or guardian who knowingly permits or allows any minor to operate
a golf cart or low-speed vehicle in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   A law enforcement officer may impound any golf cart, low-speed vehicle, or
off-road vehicle used or operated in violation of any provision of this chapter
for a period not to exceed 30 days, and the owner or operator of the golf cart,
low-speed vehicle, or off-road vehicle shall be responsible to pay for all
costs involved in the storage and/or removal of the impounded golf cart, low-
speed vehicle, or off-road vehicle. If the operator of the impounded golf car
or utility vehicle is not the owner, the law enforcement officer shall notify
the owner of such impoundment by telephone, letter, or personal contact as soon
as practical, but within 24 hours. The golf cart, low-speed vehicle, or off-
road vehicle used by any unqualified operator may be impounded by order of the
Town Marshal or any police officer of the town’s Police Department for a period
not to exceed 30 days and, in addition, the unqualified operator shall also be
subject to the same penalties set forth herein.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect in this governmental unit as
of July 1, 2009, and after publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, a person engaged in activity that
violates this chapter, or a responsible person referred to in §
71.07, shall be guilty of a civil infraction punishable by civil fine according
to the following schedule:
      (1)   First offense within one year: $50;
      (2)   Second offense within one year: $100; and
      (3)   Third offense within one year: $500.
   (B)   For purposes of computing the one-year period, time shall run from the
date of the first ticket issued.
(Ord. 2009-8, passed 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   Semi trailers
   
IV.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street             Location       Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Eckert Street      To town limits 20 mph      1988-11  10-18-1988
Maple Street       To town limits 20 mph      1992-13  9-15-1992
South Shook Street To town limits 30 mph      1988-11  10-18-1988
Sycamore Street    To town limits 20 mph      1992-13  9-15-1992
Tanglewood Road    To town limits 30 mph      1988-11  10-18-1988
Walnut Street      To town limits 20 mph      1992-13  9-15-1992
 
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street/Intersection Type of Stop Ord. No. Date Passed
Street/Intersection                     Type of Stop      Ord. No. Date Passed
Cardinal Lane with Ripley Street        Stop intersection 1994-7   7-19-1994
Cardinal Lane with the east-west        Three-way stop    1994-7   7-19-1994
alleyway (north of Ripley Street)
Eckert Street with Tanglewood Road      Stop intersection 1996-11  5-21-1996
Elm Street with Jefferson Street        Stop intersection 1996-9   3-12-1996
Elm Street with the east-west alleyway  Stop intersection 1994-7   7-19-1994
(north of Ripley Street)
Lynn Street with Poplar Street          Four-way stop     1992-18  10-20-1992
Maple Street with Franklin Street       Four-way stop     2004-1   7-20-2004
Ripley Street with Walnut Street        Stop intersection 1994-5   - -1994
Tanglewood Road with County Road 300    Four-way stop     2008-10  7-15-2008
North
Tanglewood Road with Eckert Street      Stop intersection 1996-11  5-21-1996
Walnut Street with Franklin Street      Four-way stop     1997-1   1-21-1997
Walnut Street with Jefferson Street     Four-way stop     1995-8   6-20-1995
Walnut Street with Wilson Street        Three-way stop    1997-4   3-18-1997
 
SCHEDULE III. SEMI TRAILERS.
 
Street/Intersection          Restriction                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Jay C Store parking lot onto No semi trailers are
Morris Street                permitted to exit the parking 1995-3   2-21-1995
                             lot onto Morris Street
 
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street/Intersection    Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
Fairground Avenue-west Between State Road 350 and Buckeye  11       - -
                       Street/U.S. 421
                       Between Beech Street/State Road 350
Fairgrounds Road-west  on the east and Columbia Street on  1996-19  9-17-1996
                       the west
Ripley Street-west     Lying west of Buckeye Street/U.S.   1994-5   - -1994
                       421 and east of Walnut Street
 
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
Street Location Restriction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location            Restriction         Ord. No. Date Passed
                   That area between
                   the south side of
                   Railroad Avenue and No parking for a
                   B & O railroad      continuous period
                   tracks, between     in excess of 48     1993-8   3-2-1993
                   Maple Street on the hours
                   west and Elm
                   Street, if extended
                   north, on the east
                                       No semi tractor,
                   West side of        semi tractor/
Buckeye Street/    Buckeye Street      trailer
U.S. 421           between Railroad    combination, or     1989-1   4-18-1989
                   Avenue and Craven   other truck
                   Street              weighing over 5,000
                                       pounds
                   Between Buckeye
East Eckert Street Street on the west  No parking          1997-10  5-20-1997
                   and the corporate
                   limits on the east
                   South side of
                   Fairground Avenue
Fairground Avenue  between Beech       Time limitation     1998-15  11-17-1998
                   Street on the east  removed
                   and Columbia Street
                   on the west
                   North side of the
Fairgrounds Road   road between Beech  Parking allowed     1996-19  9-17-1996
                   Street and Columbia
                   Street
                   Between Buckeye
Jefferson Street   Street on the east  No parking          1997-6   4-15-1997
                   and Walnut Street
                   on the west
Parking facility   The parking spaces
at Buckeye Street  on the northeast    Reserved for        1993-20  - -1993
and Ripley Street  corner and          handicapped parking
                   southwest corner
                   That area along and
                   adjacent to the
                   north side of
                   Railroad Avenue
Railroad Avenue    extending west from No parking          1993-22  12-21-1993
                   the north west
                   corner of the
                   intersection with
                   Buckeye Street for
                   20 feet
                   North side of
                   Ripley Street west  Parking limited to
Ripley Street      of the alley        library parking     1990-11  9-18-1990
                   between Walnut      only
                   Street and Buckeye
                   Street
                   Lying west of
Ripley Street      Buckeye Street and  Parallel parking is 1994-5   - -1994
                   east of Walnut      allowed
                   Street
                   Between Buckeye
Ripley Street      Street on the east  Reserved for        1996-12  5-21-1996
                   and Walnut Street   handicapped parking
                   on the west
                   Within the          No parking on
Tanglewood Road    corporate           either side of the  2007-6   7-17-2007
                   boundaries          street
                   On the east side of
                   Walnut Street
Walnut Street      between Jefferson   One handicapped     1993-16  9-21-1993
                   Street on the north parking space
                   and Washington
                   Street on the south
                   The area on the
                   east side of Walnut
Walnut Street      Street between      No parking          1998-14  10-15-1998
                   Railroad Avenue and
                   Western Avenue
                   Within the          No parking on
West Eckert Street corporate           either side of the  2007-6   7-17-2007
                   boundaries          street
                   Within the          No parking on
Wilson Street      corporate           either side of the  2007-6   7-17-2007
                   boundaries          street
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   PUBLIC PROPERTY AND THE COMMUNITY CENTER
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   CUT PERMITS FOR PUBLIC WAY AND RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Running at Large
   
90.01   Animals running at large
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Impoundment procedure
   
90.04   Annual report
Animal Control
   
90.10   General provisions
   
90.11   Chickens; chicken coops
   
90.12   Dog traps
 
   
90.99   Penalty
RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Dogs, cats, and other animals found to be running at large, and not under
restraint, shall be captured and taken by the Town Marshal or anyone authorized
by him or her and impounded at any available animal shelter, and there confined
in a humane manner for a period of not less than four days or until such time
as re-claimed by the owner thereof, and may, in the event such animal is not
re-claimed, thereafter be given away or disposed of in a humane manner.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person so designated from time to time by
the county’s Board of Commissioners, and the duties listed herein may also be
performed by any agents so designated from time to time by said COUNTY ANIMAL
CONTROL OFFICER.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Includes any dog, cat, or other animal when it is off the
property of its owner or keeper and not under the restraint of a competent
person.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. Includes a dog, cat, or other animal controlled by leash,
in the control of a competent person nearby (including lawful hunting
activities), on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the public
streets of the town, or within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any animal so impounded under the provisions of this section and not
re-claimed by the owner or his or her agent within the four-day period may be
placed in the custody of some suitable person who will agree to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter and provide a good home for the animal, or such
animal be humanely destroyed.
   (B)   Immediately upon the impounding of dogs, cats, or other animals, the
Town Marshal shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owner of such
dog, cat, or other animal being so impounded and shall further notify the owner
thereof of the conditions under which he or she may reclaim his or her animal.
   (C)   The owner of any animal impounded under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be entitled to re-claim possession of such animal upon a
proper identification, the payment of the impounding fees, and compliance with
all other conditions set forth herein.
   (D)   When, in the judgment of the Town Marshal, upon advice from a licensed
veterinary, it is deemed that an animal should be destroyed for humane, health,
or safety reasons, it shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to see that such
animal is immediately destroyed and such animal shall not be permitted to be
re-claimed.
   (E)   No dog, cat, or other animal shall be delivered to its owner or
owner’s agent until such time as the person claiming such dog, cat, or other
animal has paid the fees required by this subchapter and further has
satisfactorily proved to the county animal control officer that such dog, cat,
or other animal is duly licensed and has received all lawful rabies shots.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 90.04 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Town Marshal shall make an annual report to the county’s Board of
Commissioners setting forth the number of calls received concerning dogs, cats,
or other animals running at large, the number impounded, the number re-claimed,
the number destroyed, and the number found to be rabid.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 3-17-2009)
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 90.10 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Duty of owner.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal or anyone having
any animal in possession or custody, to exercise reasonable care and to take
all necessary steps and precautions to protect other people, property, and
animals from injuries or damage which might result from the owner's animal's
behavior, regardless of whether such behavior is motivated by mischievousness,
playfulness, or ferocity.
      (2)   In the event that the owner or keeper of any animal is a minor, the
custodian, parent or guardian is legally responsible to ensure compliance with
all provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Types of animals permitted in town limits.
      (1)   This division (B) shall not apply to any parcels of real estate
within town limits that are currently zoned agricultural and does not apply to
any animals kept for 4-H projects.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any domestic farm
animal other than cats, dogs, or chickens within the municipal limits of the
town.
         (b)   FARM ANIMALS are defined as any domestic species of cattle,
swine, goats, llamas, or horses, which are normally and have historically, been
kept and raised on farms.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor or permit at large
any animal which is now or historically has been found wild. This includes, but
is not limited to rabbits, snakes, rodents, deer, skunk, opossum, raccoon,
mink, armadillo, coyote, squirrel, fox or wolf.
   (C)   Leash law and controlling of animals. It is the duty of every owner,
possessor or custodian of any animal in his custody to ensure that the animal
is kept under control and that reasonable care and precautions are taken to
prevent that animal from leaving while unattended the real property limits of
its owner, possessor or custodian and that it is on a lead or leash and within
voice or sight control of a competent person any time it is not restrained
while on the owner's property.
   (D)   Animals creating a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
person in charge or control of any animal or for any person who has the
authority or power to prevent the same, to suffer or permit any such animal to
become a nuisance. Health and safety issues, excessive, continuous or untimely
barking, yelping, howling, crying or other distressing loud or unusual noise,
molesting passerby, chasing vehicles, habitually attacking other domestic
animals, trespassing upon school grounds or upon private property in such a
manner as to damage property, shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 12-19-2017; Ord. 2020-2, passed 7-21-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 CHICKENS; CHICKEN COOPS.
   (A)   Permissible use. It shall be permissible for a property owner to
maintain up to 12 female chickens for his or her private, personal use;
provided the property owner remains in strict compliance with the terms of this
section at all times.
   (B)   Standards for keeping chickens in town limits. All individuals keeping
chickens shall:
      (1)   Not keep any male chickens or roosters;
      (2)   Operate in such a manner so as to not constitute a public nuisance
or disturb neighboring residents due to noise, odor or damage;
      (3)   Comply with any and all federal, state and local laws governing the
proper treatment of animals;
      (4)   Operate in a manner so as to not pose a threat to public health.
Individuals shall isolate chickens which are sick or diseased so as to not
endanger the health and well-being of other animals and humans. When necessary
for the protection of the public health and safety, the Town Marshal may
require the specified animal be kept or confined in a secured enclosure. This
provision is subordinate to any local, state or federal code governing the
treatment of chickens in the event of a threat to human health;
      (5)   Comply with any and all federal, state and local laws governing the
proper treatment of animals;
      (6)   Keep all chickens completely and securely enclosed and under the
control of the individual on the individual's property at all times;
      (7)   Provide a chicken coop and attached chicken run that are clean, dry
and odor-free;
      (8)   Provide a chicken coop that affords shelter from the elements;
      (9)   Provide a chicken coop and attached chicken run that, combined,
provide adequate ventilation and adequate sun and shade and that are both
impermeable to rodents, wild birds and predators, including dogs;
      (10)   Provide chickens with access to feed and clean water at all times,
such feed and water shall be unavailable to rodents, wild birds and predators;
      (11)   Provide adequate safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to the
chickens by members of the public; and
      (12)   Keep the chicken coop, chicken run and surrounding area free from
trash and accumulated droppings. The individual shall dispose of chicken waste
and uneaten feed in a timely manner and in accordance with this code of
ordinances.
   (C)   Standards for chicken runs and coops. The chicken coop and chicken run
shall:
      (1)   Provide a sight fence or shrub screening of at least four feet in
height around both coop and run if visible to occupants of neighboring lots;
      (2)   Be located at least 20 feet from any building not owned or occupied
by the individual, that is used or capable of being used for human habitation;
      (3)   Be located at least 12 feet from the property line of any
neighboring lot;
      (4)   Provide at least four square feet per chicken in the coop and 12
square foot per chicken in the run; and
      (5)   All chicken coops and chicken runs shall comply with the
requirements for accessory structures outlined in this Code of Ordinances, as
the same may be hereafter amended or replaced.
   (D)   Enforcement. It is the duty of the members of the town's Police
Department (Town Marshal, Deputy Marshal and Reserves) to assist in the
enforcement of all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 12-19-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 DOG TRAPS.
   The Town of Osgood, by its Town Council, hereby establishes the following
policy regarding use of its humane traps to capture stray animals.
   (A)   The town will provide three humane traps, which may be borrowed by
town residents and utilized to capture dogs running at large within corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   To borrow a trap, a resident must fill out and sign the appropriate
form at the town Police Department. Police will show residents how to operate
the trap.
   (C)   Town residents then must present this form to town personnel at the
Water Treatment Plant on Tanglewood Road for pick up of the trap.
   (D)   Residents are responsible for any animal captured in the trap and must
hold a captured dog in a humane manner. The County Warden (689-7058) will pick
up captured dogs, but all other animals are the responsibility of the resident.
   (E)   No fee will be charged for use of the trap by the town residents.
Others residing within Center Township shall be required to pay a $50 deposit
on the trap, which deposit will be returned when the trap is returned to the
town in good condition.
   (F)   The trap must be returned to the town at the Water Treatment Plant on
Tanglewood Road.
   (G)   Borrower of the trap is responsible for any damage done to the trap.
   (H)   A borrower may keep a trap no longer than seven days.
(Ord. passed 7-16-1996)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, resident, or owner who allows his or her dog, cat,
or other animal to run at large, and not under restraint, shall be subject to a
fine of $25 for the first occurrence, $50 for the second occurrence, and $100
for the third occurrence.
      (2)   Any animal impounded under the terms of this subchapter may be re-
claimed by its owner or owner’s agent upon the payment to the Clerk-Treasurer
the sum of $10 for each animal so impounded, together with an additional fee of
$3 for each day or part thereof that such animal is impounded, and payment of
any fees for veterinary services and actual charges incurred by the town for
such impoundment.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the aforementioned sums so
collected in the General Fund.
   (C)   (1)   A person who violates any provision of §
90.10 shall be liable for all reasonable and customary expenses incurred by the
town resulting from the violation, including but not limited to reimbursement
for food, board, euthanasia, or disposal of the animal, in addition to any
penalties set forth below.
      (2)   A person who violates this chapter may be fined up to $1,000 for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   Nuisance violations may be enjoined or abated and fined as set
forth above.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates §
90.11 shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $10 for the
first violation, $25 for the second violation within a three-month period and
$100 for the third violation within a six-month period, and a maximum fine of
$250 and costs, with each day that the violation continues being a separate
offense which shall subject the violator to a separate fine.
      (2)   Restraining order and/or injunction. In addition to the foregoing,
the town is empowered to obtain a restraining order and/or permanent injunction
against any person, firm, corporation or any other entity that shall be in
violation of this section.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 3-17-2009; Ord. 2017-5, passed 12-19-2017; Ord. 2017-6,
passed 12-19-2017; Ord. 2020-2, passed 7-21-2020)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Noise
   
91.01   Excessive noise prohibited
   
91.02   Use of fireworks prohibited; exceptions
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
91.15   Administration
   
91.16   Definitions
   
91.17   Weeds and rank vegetation prohibited
   
91.18   Corrective procedure
   
91.19   Appeal
Land Usage
   
91.30   Stagnate water
   
91.31   Junk
   
91.32   Open burning
   
91.33   Outdoor wood and other fired furnaces
Littering and Illegal Dumping
   
91.40   Littering and illegal dumping
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NOISE
§ 91.01 EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or limited liability company, which is
the owner or in possession of a motor vehicle with any radio, phonograph,
television, tape player, CD player, loud speaker, or other instrument, machine,
or device, shall cause or permit any noise to emanate from the motor vehicle in
such manner and of such intensity and duration to create unreasonable noise or
loud sound which causes inconvenience and annoyance to persons of ordinary
sensibilities.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for a person, firm, corporation, or
limited liability company, which is the owner or person in possession of a
motor vehicle with a device described in division (A) above, to cause or permit
any noise emanating from a motor vehicle which is plainly audible at a distance
of 100 feet or more from the motor vehicle. The lawful use of a motor vehicle
horn shall not be a violation of this section.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   The sound amplifying equipment of a motor vehicle is being operated
to request medical or vehicular assistance or to warn others of a hazardous
road, vehicle, or traffic safety condition;
      (2)   The motor vehicle is an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
and on an emergency run;
      (3)   The motor vehicle is owned and operated by the state or any
political subdivision thereof, or any public utility;
      (4)   The motor vehicle is participating in a parade or other activity
for which the sponsors have obtained the necessary permit or authorization; or
      (5)   The sound amplifying equipment of a motor vehicle is being operated
as a requirement of any federal, state, or local law of regulation.
   (D)   No penalty herein shall prevent the town from enforcing this section
by equitable, injunctive, and other remedies.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 USE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   The use of fireworks within the town at all times and locations with the
exception of the following dates and times is prohibited:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on Memorial
Day weekend (Friday through Monday), June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3,
July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9, and Labor Day weekend (Friday
through Monday);
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 am. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on January
1;
   (D)   Any other time and location duly authorized by the town by permit to
be obtained prior to the scheduled event;
   (E)   Use of fireworks is restricted to property owned or authorized for use
by the user;
   (F)   Fireworks use is not permitted on town-owned property, parks, roads,
easements or other publicly-owned property without specific approval by the
Town Council;
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Fire Chief and Town Marshal,
or their designee, from preventing the use of fireworks due to weather
conditions or any other safety concerns.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-21-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 91.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Council shall be responsible for the administration of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 91.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION. Includes the following:
      (1)   Noxious weeds as defined in I.C. 15-3-4.6-2 and detrimental plants
as defined in I.C. 15-3-4-1, grass over eight inches in height and any other
plant, weed or rank vegetation over eight inches in height, which are not mowed
at least once a month in April and October, and at least twice a month during
the months of May through September.
      (2)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation with less
than 14 feet clearance over, along, and across streets or alleyways, or less
than eight feet clearance over, along, or across the sidewalks;
      (3)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation that
prevents adequate visibility at street and alley intersections or which blocks
the view of any street or traffic sign, signal, or device;
      (4)   Shrubbery or vegetation in excess of three feet in height within a
radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects
the curb line of another street;
      (5)   Unmowed grasses or other vegetation in excess of eight inches in
height or that are not mowed at least once a month during the months of April
through October;
      (6)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation that
interferes with street lights, the convenient maintenance of street lights, or
obstructs the light from street lights;
      (7)   Any trees, shrubbery, or unauthorized vegetation planted within the
public right-of-way of any street, alley, or public way;
      (8)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation which
creates or constitutes a hazard to the pedestrians, passersby, or the public;
      (9)   Grass clippings, mowed grass, mowed leaves, mowed debris cast or
blown onto or into the town’s streets, curbs or alleys;
      (10)   Animal matter including but not limited to carcasses, skeleton or
feces;
      (11)   Trash including but not limited to appliances, furniture or
rubbish of any kind; and
      (12)   Any disagreeable substances which may be harmful, hazardous,
poisonous and odorous or which may breed insects or draw vermin.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 91.17 WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Owners of real property located within the town are required to cut
and remove weeds and other rank vegetation growing on the property.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for owners of real property
located within the town to fail to cut and remove weeds and other rank
vegetation growing on their property.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any landowner and person having a substantial interest in the property
found to be violating this subchapter shall be given a written notice thereof,
issued by the Clerk-Treasurer, which notice, together with a copy of this
subchapter, shall be served by the town marshal or deputy or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the last known address of the landowner and
notifying the landowner that he or she has ten days to remove the weeds and
other rank vegetation growing on said property.
      (1)   The failure on the part of a property owner to receive or collect
his, her or its mail shall not serve as a defense to any abatement action, or
action to collect for the cost of abatement, administrative costs or fines.
      (2)   The owner, agent, occupant, leaseholder, individual(s), manager or
representative shall have ten days from the date the above-referenced notice is
sent to take the necessary corrective actions or measures to comply with this
subchapter.
      (3)   The notice shall also inform the person receiving same that in the
event the town is required to take whatever action is set forth in the notice,
that the expense incurred by the town shall be recovered by appropriate legal
action to obtain a lien against the real estate for the expenses incurred, that
the person to whom the notice is given may be found to have committed a Class A
infraction and in addition to said expense shall suffer a fine of up to but not
exceeding $2,500 by a court of competent jurisdiction. The notice shall also
include pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3 that the noxious weeds and/or rank
vegetation shall be removed by the town and any removal expenses including
administrative costs of $250 per abatement action, if not paid, as hereinafter
set forth, will be collected as delinquent taxes as defined in I.C. 35-7-10.1-
4. The notice shall also set forth that the bill is due and owing and must be
paid within 30 days of the date it is received if there is a failure to act
upon the notice within ten days.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(d), if the initial notice of the
violation was provided by the town marshal or deputy, certified mail, first
class mail or equivalent service under I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(c), a continuous
abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of abatement instead
of by certified mail, first class mail or equivalent service as required under
I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(c). This shall be in the form of a notice posted on the
residence or on a sign located on the property. A continuous abatement notice
serves as notice to the real property owner that each subsequent violation
during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation was provided
may be abated by the town, or its contractors.
   (B)   If the landowner fails to remove such weeds and other rank vegetation
within the prescribed time, the town shall enter upon the property and abate
the violation by the removal of said weeds and other rank vegetation. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual costs incurred
by the town in abating said violation, including administrative costs and
removal costs, and shall serve a copy of said certified statement upon the
owner of such real estate and persons having a substantial interest therein by
personal service by the town marshal or deputy or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of said owner. Said owner shall
have five days from receipt of said statement in which to pay the bill for
abatement costs by payment thereof to the Clerk-Treasurer. If such owner fails
to pay said bill for abatement costs within the prescribed time, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any
additional administrative costs incurred in the certification. The Auditor
shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property
affected and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be
collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 91.19 APPEAL.
   Any landowner desiring to appeal either the violation of this subchapter or
the bill for abatement costs certified by the Clerk-Treasurer shall, within
five days of receipt of notice thereof, file a written statement requesting an
appeal with the Town Council, and such matter shall be heard by the Town
Council at its next regular Town Council meeting unless otherwise determined.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-15-2015)
LAND USAGE
§ 91.30 STAGNATE WATER.
   (A)   The use of, and possession of, property, both real or personal, on or
in which there is allowed water to collect, stand, and stagnate shall be deemed
to constitute a public nuisance and a danger to the public health, safety, and
welfare of its citizenry and, therefore, is illegal within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (B)   The owner, user, or possessor of said real estate shall be required to
take all necessary corrective actions to remove and abate said public nuisance.
   (C)   The owner, user, or possessor of said property and those having a
substantial interest therein shall be given written notice by the Clerk-
Treasurer and served by the Town Marshal or his or her deputies directing the
owner, user, or possessor to remove and abate said nuisance and bring said
property into compliance within ten days of service of said notice.
   (D)   Failure of said owner, user, or possessor to remove and abate said
public nuisance within ten days of service of said notice shall result in
employees of the town entering upon said real estate or premises for purposes
of taking all necessary corrective action thereon to bring said property into
compliance.
   (E)   The costs of said corrective action shall be certified by the Clerk-
Treasurer to said property owner, user, or possessor and those having a
substantial interest therein, at his or her last known addresses, and giving 15
days to pay said costs to the town.
   (F)   The failure of the owner, user, or possessor to pay said costs of
corrective action within 15 days of said notice shall entitle the Clerk-
Treasurer to certify said costs to the County Auditor for purposes of
establishing a lien on said real estate for said costs, and for collection by
the County Treasurer pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the town from asserting a claim
for said costs against the property owner, user, or possessor by filing an
action in the county courts to bring the property into compliance herewith.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 11-17-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 JUNK.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK. Unsheltered old, unused, stripped, junked, or abandoned automobiles
or vehicles not in a good, safe, and usable operating condition; any vehicles,
machinery, implements, equipment, appliances, or other personal property of any
kind that is no longer safely usable for the purpose for which it was
manufactured; any unused building materials, fixtures, junk, trash, garbage, or
debris; or any portable storage unit which does not have a permanent foundation
or footing, including but not limited to cargo containers, portable storage
containers, truck trailers and bulk solid waste containers.
      OWNER. Any person, individual, firm, business, corporation, or
organization possessing, leasing, renting, or holding title to any real estate
within the corporate boundaries of the town.
      UNSHELTERED. Storage that is not within a completely enclosed building.
   (B)   The unsheltered storage of junk, except in duly licensed and regulated
junk yards, within the corporate limits of the town is hereby declared unlawful
and to be a nuisance and a danger to the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)    Any owner found to be in violation of division (B) above shall be
given a written notice thereof, issued by the Clerk-Treasurer or the Clerk-
Treasurer’s designee, which notice, together with a copy of this section, shall
be served by the Town Marshal or his or her deputy or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the owner and notifying the
owner that he or she has ten days within which to bring the property into
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 2-18-2008; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-17-2020; Ord. 2020-9,
passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2024-8, passed 11-19-2024)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 OPEN BURNING.
   The town’s Fire Department is authorized to assess a fee of $50 for
extinguishing a fire resulting from open burning, in violation of 326 I.A.C. 4-
1-1 et seq., within the confines of the town.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 6-30-1992)
§ 91.33 OUTDOOR WOOD AND OTHER FIRED FURNACES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to promote the public health, safety
and welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town due to air pollution and fire hazards of
outdoor burning.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to all outdoor wood and other
fired furnaces within the town. This section does not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Outdoor grilling or cooking using charcoal, wood, propane or
natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances;
      (2)   Burning in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device
located within a building used for human habitation or occupation unless the
material being burned includes refuse as defined herein;
      (3)   The use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, heating oil, gasoline
or kerosene in a device intended for heating, construction, or maintenance
activities.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated
with a similar material, has not been pressure treated with preservative, and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
      FIRE CHIEF. Chief of the Osgood Volunteer Fire Department, or other
person authorized by the Fire Chief.
      HARD WOOD. Wood from broad-leaved deciduous trees such as oak, beech,
maple, ash, sweet gum or poplar.
      HEATING SEASON. From October 1 through May 1.
      OUTDOOR BURNING. Burning in an outdoor furnace.
      OUTDOOR FURNACE. A furnace, stove, boiler or similar device, or any part
thereof, designed for burning wood, coal, corn, or any other combustible
material, to produce heat or energy used as a component of a heating system
providing heat for interior space or water source, and that is not located
within a building intended for habitation or occupation by humans.
      REFUSE. Any waste material except clean wood.
      RIDGE LINE. The horizontal line formed by the junction of two sloping
planes, especially the line formed by the surfaces at the top of a roof.
   (D)   General prohibition on outdoor burning and refuse burning. Outdoor
burning and refuse burning are prohibited in the town unless the burning is
specifically permitted by this section.
   (E)   Material that may not be burned. Unless a specific written approval
has been obtained from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, or
other appropriate state or federal agency, the following materials may not be
burned in an outdoor incineration or heating device:
      (1)   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to, food wastes, food
wraps, packaging, animal carcasses, paint or painted materials, furniture,
composite shingles, construction or demolition debris, or other household or
business wastes.
      (2)   Waste oil or other oily wastes, unless otherwise permitted by the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      (3)   Asphalt and products containing asphalt.
      (4)   Treated or painted wood including but not limited to plywood,
composite wood products or other wood products that are painted, varnished or
treated with preservatives.
      (5)   Any plastic material including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, synthetic fabrics, plastic films and plastic
containers.
      (6)   Rubber including tires and synthetic rubberlike products.
      (7)   Newspaper, corrugated cardboard, container board and paper
products. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, small quantities of
newspaper, paper and cardboard products may be used as starter fuel for any
fire that is permitted under this section.
   (F)   Outdoor furnaces. Ground level pollution of smoke and particulate
matter caused by the incomplete combustion of outdoor furnaces in the town is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. Outdoor furnaces shall not be permitted to be
installed, used or maintained within the corporate town limits.
   (G)   Existing outdoor furnaces. Any existing outdoor furnaces in the town
of Osgood shall be installed, used, operated and maintained in strict
compliance with the provisions of this section.
      (1)   All outdoor furnaces shall be installed, operated and maintained in
strict conformance with the manufacturer’s instructions and the regulations
promulgated hereunder. In the event of a conflict, the stricter of the
manufacturer’s instructions or the regulations promulgated hereunder shall
control.
      (2)   The outdoor furnace shall have a chimney or stack through which all
smoke and by-products of combustion are emitted, the height of which shall be
determined by the distance from the nearest residence or other building
intended for human occupation which is not served by, or owned by the owner of,
the outdoor furnace, as follows:
         (a)   Zero to 100 feet - height of the ridge line of the nearest
residence or occupied building not served, plus two feet.
         (b)   More than 100 feet - 75% of the ridge line of the nearest
residence or occupied building not served, plus two feet.
         (c)   In no event shall the chimney or stack height be less than 15
feet from ground level.
         (d)   The chimney stack must be dismantled, cleaned, and inspected on
an annual basis during the off heating season and may not be reconstructed
until the beginning of the heating season.
         (e)   Any furnace that is not appropriately sheltered per
manufacturer’s specifications should be a minimum of 25 feet from the property
line and a minimum of 75 feet from any other residential home. Furnaces in
existence at the time this section takes effect are presumed to be properly
sheltered.
         (f)   Enforcement of the requirements of this division (G)(2)(a) and
(b) may be waived upon receipt by the Fire Chief of the town, written notices
of waiver by the landowners of the two nearest residences to the property
served by the furnace. It is the responsibility of the furnace owner to obtain
the written notices of waiver.
      (3)   Only clean hard wood may be burned in an outdoor furnace and it
only may be burned during the heating season. Under no circumstance may coal,
or any materials prohibited under division (E) hereof be burned in an outdoor
furnace.
      (4)   The outdoor furnace shall be sufficiently vented to induce complete
primary combustion.
      (5)   The owner of the outdoor furnace shall operate the same in a manner
which is not harmful, and does not create a nuisance or unreasonable
interference with the use and enjoyment by owners or occupants of neighboring
properties, and the public in general.
      (6)   Owners of existing outdoor furnaces within the town shall bring the
same into compliance with this section within 30 days from the effective date
of this section.
      (7)   Ownership cannot be changed for existing outdoor furnaces. In the
event the real estate upon which an outdoor furnace exists is transferred in
any manner from its current owners, the outdoor furnace must be dismantled.
   (H)   Right of entry and inspection. The Fire Chief or any authorized Code
Enforcement Officer of the town who presents credentials may inspect any
property for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this
section.
   (I)    Enforcement. The Fire Chief or his or her designee and the Police
Department are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-15-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
LITTERING AND ILLEGAL DUMPING
§ 91.40 LITTERING AND ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or deposit upon any of
the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or public grounds of the town any refuse,
garbage, trash or litter. Further, no person shall deposit any refuse, garbage,
trash or litter in any town-owned or town-approved container or on any public
or private property without the consent of the property owner.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 11-21-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
91.01 shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50, nor more than
$500. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any violation of §
91.02 shall be punished by a fine of no more than $500 per incident as well as
other penalty provided by this Code of Ordinances.
   (D)   In addition to the costs of abatement, said landowner is subject to a
fine of up to $250 for a violation and an administrative fee of $250 of §
91.17.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to the costs of abatement, the owner, user, or
possessor of property shall be subject to a fine of up to $250 for a violation
of §
91.30.
      (2)   In addition, said property owner shall be assessed a penalty of
$100 per day of violating §
91.30(F).
   (F)   (1)   If owner fails to bring the property into compliance with §
91.31 within the prescribed ten days, either by the proper disposal or removal
in a lawful manner from the corporate limits of the town or by the sheltering
of said junk, said owner shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500 and the
town shall be entitled to seek and obtain a mandatory injunction from the
County Circuit Court, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4 for the purposes of requiring
any person violating the terms of §
91.31 to remove in a lawful manner said junk found to exist on private
property, and to seek enforcement of the payment of any penalty prescribed
herein. In addition, if the town seeks enforcement of said section through the
courts, all court costs and attorney fees incurred by said town shall be added
to any penalty herein.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Attorney are hereby authorized to
file said civil action for mandatory injunctive relief on behalf of the town.
   (G)   Any person, firm or other entity in violation of any portion of §
91.33 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the sum of $100 for each offense.
Each day, or part thereof, that a violation continues in existence constitutes
a separate violation for which civil penalties may be imposed. In addition to
civil penalties, the appropriate enforcement officers of the town may seek
injunctive relief.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 2008-4, passed 2-18-2008; Ord. 2009-12,
passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2009-13, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-15-
2015; Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-15-2019; Ord. 2024-
5, passed 3-12-2024)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC PROPERTY AND THE COMMUNITY CENTER
Section
   
92.01   Prohibited conduct on sidewalks
   
92.02   Obstructing sidewalks
   
92.03   Repairs prohibited on public property
   
92.04   Community center regulations
   
92.05   Fishing at quarries
   
92.06   Walking trails
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or child to use, run, or operate
any roller skate or skates, bicycle, push wagon, or any other device of this
kind upon any sidewalk in the town.
   (B)   This section shall be in force from and after its passage and
publication for two consecutive weeks in the Osgood Journal of said town. The
first of which shall be on July 7, 1915, and the last on July 14, 1915.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-2-1915) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
    It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or corporation to set,
place, display, or exhibit items for sale, goods, wares, merchandise, signs,
and the like on the sidewalks of the town, unless said goods, wares, and/or
merchandise are placed immediately adjacent to the front of his, her, or their
building and do not extend further than three feet from said front of the
building. Under no circumstance shall vending machines be permitted on town
sidewalks.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 6-19-2012; Ord. 2024-2, passed 2-20-2024; Ord. 2024-4A,
passed 2-20-2024) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 REPAIRS PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall utilize the public streets and sidewalks within the town for
purposes of repairing vehicles, trailers, and equipment. Such repairs must be
made on the private property of those making the repairs.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 COMMUNITY CENTER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes the following rules and regulations
regarding the use of the town community center.
      (1)   Use of the town community center shall be made available to the
public, including organizations, groups, corporations, businesses, entities,
and individuals, with priority use being given to town civic groups. However,
the town reserves the right to prohibit specific uses of said facility and
shall have the final decision regarding a proposed use.
      (2)   All renters shall be responsible and liable for any damage or waste
to the premises, any equipment therein, and fixtures used during the term of
said use, and shall be required to return said premises to the town in a clean
and satisfactory condition. Should damage or waste occur, or cleaning of the
premises be necessary, said renter shall be responsible for all costs
associated therewith.
      (3)   Nothing may be affixed to the walls or ceilings of the community
center, either with tape, thumbtacks, glue, or any other means of affixing
substances.
      (4)   Use of alcoholic beverages upon and within said premises shall be
prohibited.
      (5)   Smoking and other use of any tobacco products within said premises
shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Said premises are available for use between the hours of 5:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m.
      (7)   Renters shall return possession of the premises to the town at the
expiration of his or her term with all appliances, lights, and water faucets
turned off, and shall be responsible for shutting and locking all doors and
windows. Renters shall drop the keys in the town drop box or return them to the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (8)   The charges for use of the town community center are as follows:
         (a)   Use of the town community center by any civic, charitable,
religious, educational, or not-for-profit organization shall be free of charge,
unless said organization or group uses said facilities for the purposes of
raising funds or for profit-making purposes, in which instance charges for said
use shall be based on the charges set forth below;
         (b)   Other for-profit groups, organizations, businesses, or
individuals shall pay for the use of said town community center the sum of $20
per hour or $50 per day, whichever sum is smaller;
         (c)   Any not-for-profit or community organization which desires to
use the building may contribute community service in exchange for paying the
rental therefor; and
         (d)   The town may pursue any legal recourse to collect for damages to
the community center.
      (9)   All renters shall provide their own supplies including, but not
limited to, coffee, tea, creamer, paper products, napkins, paper plates, table
coverings, decorations, trash bags and cleaning supplies.
      (10)   The town shall provide whatever dishware, silverware, pots and
pans, and cooking utensils available as part of the rental for said building.
   (B)   Said community center may be reserved or rented by contacting the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to execute a rental
agreement therefor on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 2-20-1996; Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 92.05 FISHING AT QUARRIES.
   (A)   Fishing shall be permitted at the town's quarries located south of
County Road 300 North and east of Tanglewood Road, but only in specific and
posted areas.
   (B)   Only fishing from shore is permitted; no fishing from boats or
flotation devices.
   (C)   No one under the age of 18 is permitted on the premises unless
accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   (D)   No boats, jet skis or floatation devices of any kind are permitted on
said quarries.
   (E)   No swimming, alcoholic beverages, open campfires, littering or ice
fishing is permitted on said premises.
   (F)   Parking is permitted only in specified areas. Cars illegally parked on
county roads will be subject to enforcement.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2000)
§ 92.06 WALKING TRAILS.
   (A)   Walking/bicycling on the town's trails at the town's quarries shall be
permitted between the hours of dawn to dusk.
   (B)   Dogs are permitted if on a leash accompanied by their owner. Owners
are expected to clean up after their dogs and dispose of the waste in proper
receptacles.
   (C)   No one under the age of 12 years is permitted on the walking/bicycling
trails unless accompanied by a parent, guardian or adult over 18 years of age.
   (D)   No skateboards, scooters, roller skates, roller blades or motorized
vehicles, of any sort, including golf carts and ATVs, are permitted on the
trails, with the sole exception of electric mobility aids for the disabled.
   (E)   No alcoholic beverages or littering is permitted on the premises.
   (F)   Parking is permitted only in specified areas. Cars illegally parked on
county roads will be subject to enforcement by local police.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2012)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or child violating any of the provisions of §
92.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $10.
   (C)   Any person violating §
92.02 shall be subject to a fine of up to $250 and may be prosecuted through
the town’s Ordinance Violation Bureau, as established by §§
33.01 through
33.05.
   (D)   Any violation of §
92.03 shall result in the imposition of a fine of $50 upon the violator and the
fine may be enforced through legal procedures within the county’s court system.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-2-1915; Ord. 2009-7, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 2009-12, passed
11-17-2009; Ord. 2012-2, passed 6-19-2012)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
    It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§ 93.04
through 93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of FAMILIAL
STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities:
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, 910 I.A.C.
2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
93.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (A)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3; and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (B) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
         (a)    Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(A)(3), but nothing in this division (A)(2)(a) shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS if:
      (1)    They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §
93.03(A)(2) and §
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)    To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin; and/or
      (6)   (a)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
            1.   That buyer or renter;
            2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
            3.   Any person associated with that person.
         (b)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
            1.   That person;
            2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
            3.   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors are designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.    An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (B)(3)(c) above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION
includes any of the following:
      (1)    The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03 through
93.06.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993 ; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)  Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
    Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, contracting, or negotiating
for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above;
      (2)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be subject to a
penalty.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 93.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS includes
housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 93.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission, as set forth in
division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the town shall refer all complaints to the Commission as provided for under
division (A) above to the Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution,
and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town or the Chief Elected Official's
designee shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
93.08 shall result in being fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more
than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 6, 1993, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-15-2020)
CHAPTER 94: CUT PERMITS FOR PUBLIC WAY
AND RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAY
Section
   
94.01   General provisions
   
94.02   New installations
   
94.03   Permit fees
   
94.04   Bond
   
94.05   Restoration of service
   
94.06   Fees collected
   
94.07   Time limit
   
94.08   Supervision
§ 94.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to occupy areas along, under, upon, and across the
streets, highways, or other public property within the town without having
first fully complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 94.02 NEW INSTALLATIONS.
    No person or entity, including a public or private utility, may install or
maintain any cable, wire, conduits, or other attachments or equipment over, on
or under any such location, unless and until a permit for such installation
shall have first been obtained from the town. Applications for such permits
shall be made by e-mail to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and shall state the name
of the applicant, the location, nature, size and purpose of the proposed
installation. Each such application shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications showing the exact location involved, exact dimensions, depth of
installation, exact distance from the main portion of any traveled highway,
sidewalk, or other right-of-way, the method of installation contemplated, and
the nature of the proposed equipment. Each such application shall be referred
to the Town Street Superintendent or other person designated by the Town
Council, to determine whether the work contemplated complies with the
ordinances of the town and whether it would involve or cause damage to town
property. No such permit shall be issued unless it appears that no such damage
will ensue. If such permit is granted, an as-built set of plans to scale shall
be furnished by the applicant to the town. No permit may be issued to any
person or entity that is not in good standing with the town and/or in
compliance with town ordinances on any other projects. All contractors and/or
subcontractors must be approved by the town. The Town Council shall be
authorized to grant permission to any public utility to install any such cable,
wire, conduits, or other equipment within a public right-of- way on an
emergency basis, conditioned upon such public utility thereafter complying with
the provisions of this subchapter, including submission of plans and
specifications and payment of permit fees as required herein. All installations
shall be in compliance with the National Electric Safety Code. The installation
of equipment in the right-of-way shall be subject to approval of, and as
directed by, the town as to location of such utility equipment; further, that
if the town has a reasonable need to relocate the equipment in the future, the
owner of the equipment agrees to relocation at its own expense.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018; Ord. 2021-2, passed 2-23-2021; Ord. 2023-4,
passed 7-18-2023)
§ 94.03 PERMIT FEES.
    There shall be a permit fee paid to the town for each such permit as
follows:
   (A)   Road excavations/cuts: $2,000 per cut.
   (B)   Borings under streets: $250 per bore.
   (C)   Trenching/excavating adjacent to roadway but within right-of-way:
$250.
   (D)   Sidewalk and alley cuts: $500.
   (E)   Borings within right-of-way but adjacent to roadway: $0.40 per lineal
foot with $250 minimum.
   (F)    Drops or service wires: No permit or fee required for service wires
from structure to residence, unless road excavation or bore is required.
   (G)   Setting individual above-ground structures (other than poles)
including pedestals, splicer box, junction box, and transformers: $250.
   (H)   Potholing utilities in the roadway: $75.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018; Ord. 2024-4, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 94.04 BOND.
   No such permit shall be issued unless the applicant has also filed with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond with a lawful corporate surety or an indemnity
insurance policy, in the sum of not less than $50,000 conditioned to indemnify
and hold the town harmless against any and all claims or injury or damage to
persons or property resulting from the performance of work contemplated or any
act done pursuant thereto, or against any loss or liability resulting from the
maintenance of any such cable, wire, conduit or other attachments or equipment
so installed. Such bond shall be a continuing blanket bond for a period of five
years computed from the time the work is completed. However, the Town Street
Superintendent shall have discretion of requiring a specific larger bond for
larger projects on a per project basis.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 94.05 RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   Any applicants granted such permit shall replace the portion of any such
area so excavated in its original condition, and backfill any trench or opening
by thoroughly tamping the backfilling in layers acceptable to the Town Street
Superintendent, and to maintain the surface which has been disturbed in a
smooth and uniform condition for a period of one year after the work is
completed. All underground cables, wires, conduits, or other attachments or
equipment shall be buried no less than 12 inches, unless prior written
permission is granted by the Town Street Superintendent. All applicants granted
such permit shall also comply with all other provisions of this code pertaining
to street, alley, and sidewalk excavations.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 94.06 FEES COLLECTED.
   All fees collected shall be credited to the Sidewalk Maintenance Fund.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalk Maintenance Fund, see §
34.12
§ 94.07 TIME LIMIT.
   Each permit to install equipment granted under the provisions of this
subchapter shall expire within one year from the time of issuance and no such
permit shall authorize any work to be done after such time, unless expressly
granted by Town Council.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 94.08 SUPERVISION.
   The Town Street Superintendent, or other person designated by the Town
Council, may supervise any construction or installation work performed subject
to the provisions of this subchapter and may make such inspections as may be
necessary to insure compliance with this code in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-17-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Removing signs
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 REMOVING SIGNS.
   All businesses, establishments, and organizations which cease to operate
within the corporate limits of the town shall remove all posted signage for
said businesses, establishments, and organizations within 30 days of ceasing
operation.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 3-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   All violators of §
110.01 shall be subject to a fine of $100 per day that said signage remains
posted after said 30-day period.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 3-17-2009)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS
AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
 
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Enforcement
   
111.04   Application
   
111.05   Registration clerk
   
111.06   Standards for issuance of license
   
111.07   Exhibition of license
   
111.08   Denial of application for license; suspension or revocation of
license; hearing
   
111.09   Suspension and revocation of license
   
111.10   License expiration; license nontransferable
   
111.11   Written receipt required
   
111.12   Exemptions
 
   
111.98   Violation
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDIVIDUAL PEDDLER. Any person who, on behalf of a peddler, goes door-to-
door soliciting any sales.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. All persons, copartners, and corporations, both as
principals and agents, who engage in, do or transact any temporary and
transient business in the town selling goods, wares, merchandise, food,
services or subscriptions to any publication for either present or future
delivery and who solicit or make such sales from any moving cart, booth or
vehicle and offer for sale any such goods, wares, merchandise, food, services
or subscriptions to any publication to persons not dealers in such commodities,
for either present or future delivery.
   PEDDLER. All persons, copartners, and corporations, both as principals and
agents, who engage in, do or transact any business in the town selling goods,
wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions to any publication for
either present or future delivery from house to house, office to office, or
place to place in the town, and offer for sale any such goods, wares,
merchandise, food, services or subscriptions to any publication to persons not
dealers in such commodities, for either present or future delivery.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Town of Osgood Police Department.
   TOWN. The Town of Osgood.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. All persons, copartners, and corporations, both as
principals and agents, who engage in, do or transact any temporary and
transient business in the town selling goods, wares, merchandise, food,
services or subscriptions to any publication for either present or future
delivery and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, may hire,
lease, use, or occupy any building, room, car, shop, booth, cart or structure
at a particular location for the exhibition or sale of such merchandise and
offer for sale any such goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or
subscriptions to any publication to persons not dealers in such commodities,
for either present or future delivery.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant or peddler in goods, wares,
merchandise, food, services or subscriptions to any kind of publication, to
sell or offer the same for sale from any building, room, car, shop, booth, cart
or structure for the exhibition or sale of such merchandise or to go from house
to house, office to office, or place to place, or on any street, sidewalk or
highway within, for either present or future delivery, without first having a
license to engage in such business. Application for the license must be made
with the Police Department as provided in §
111.04 of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any individual peddler to
solicit or make any sales without first having a license as an individual
peddler.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION.
   Any transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler must complete an
application, provided by the Police Department, to obtain a license to offer
goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions to any kind of
publication under this chapter. Organizations, corporation, firms or employers
who employ, utilize or have as their agents transient merchants, peddlers or
itinerant dealers shall obtain a license for each individual transient
merchant, peddler and itinerant dealer that will sell or offer to sell goods,
wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions to any kind of publication
in the town. The application must contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, business address, home address and telephone number and
local address and telephone number, if any, of the applicant. The applicant
must also submit two photographs of the applicant, two inches by two inches,
taken within 60 days before application. The photograph must show the head and
shoulders of the applicant.
   (B)   The name under which the business is to be conducted.
   (C)   The type of goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions
intended to be sold or offered for sale.
   (D)   The location(s) where the applicant intends to sell or offer to sell
goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions in the town.
   (E)   The length of time the applicant intends to sell or offer to sell
goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions in the town.
   (F)   A description and valid license plate number of all vehicles to be
used, if any, by the applicant.
   (G)   A list of all of the applicant’s criminal convictions including the
date of the conviction and the town and state of all such convictions, if any.
If none, it is to be so stated on the application.
   (H)   The applicant’s Indiana state retailer license number.
   (I)   The name, address and telephone number of the contact person who will
respond to consumer complaints who shall be available for a period of time of
not less than 60 days following the last date that the transient merchant,
peddler and itinerant dealer sells or offers to sell goods, wares, merchandise,
food, services or subscriptions in the town.
   (J)   The application must be signed by the applicant at the Police
Department, during regular business hours. At the time of signing and
submitting the application for consideration by the Police Department, all
applicants shall:
      (1)   Submit identification satisfactory to the Police Department which
contains a specimen of the applicant’s signature;
      (2)   File a surety bond in the penal sum of $750 or three times the
value of the goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions
intended to be sold or offered for sale, whichever is greater;
      (3)   Pay a license fee of $100 for each six-month period the applicant
intends to sell or offer to sell goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or
subscriptions, plus a fee of $10 for an identification card for each individual
peddler which said fees shall be paid into the general fund of the town;
      (4)   If the application provides for the use of a motor vehicle by the
transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler, the applicant shall file a
certificate of insurance with the application establishing that liability
insurance in minimum amounts of $100,000 for personal injuries or death to any
one person, $300,000 for personal injuries or death in any one occurrence and
$100,000) for property damage;
      (5)   If the application provides for the use of a building, room, shop,
booth, cart, or other structure by the transient merchant, the applicant shall:
         (a)   File a certificate of insurance with the application
establishing that liability insurance in minimum amounts of $50,000 for
personal injuries or death to any one person, $100,000 for personal injuries or
death in any one occurrence and $50,000 for property damage, and
         (b)   File written permission from the landowner for the use of the
real estate.
      (6)   The applicant, at the time of signing the application, shall submit
a complete set of fingerprints.
   (K)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any
license granted thereon, there is any substantial change in fact, policy or
method that would materially alter the information given in the application,
the applicant shall notify the Police Department in writing of the change
within 72 hours after such change. If the applicant or transient merchant,
peddler or individual peddler fails to so notify the Police Department, any
license issued to the applicant or transient merchant, peddler or individual
peddler shall be suspended pursuant to hearing as set forth in §
111.08.
   (L)   If the transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler intends to
sell or offers to sell any type of food or beverage, the Police Department
shall refer the application to the Ripley County Health Department for review
and recommendation. The review shall include an inspection of all refrigeration
equipment to be used by the transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler
and shall ensure that minimum sanitation requirements established by state and
local law are met.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 REGISTRATION CLERK.
   The Town Marshal may appoint any person as agent of the Police Department to
perform the clerical functions of accepting applications and accompanying
documentation under this chapter; provided, that such agent shall not deny any
application except upon the direction of the Town Marshal or the designee of
the Town Marshal.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon compliance by the applicant with the provisions of §
111.04, the Police Department shall conduct a records check on the applicant.
Unless such investigation discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the
applicant’s business would pose a substantial threat to the public health,
safety, or general welfare, the license shall be granted.
      (2)   Tangible evidence shall include, but not be limited to, any one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Applicant’s conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
         (b)   Willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Applicant’s violation of other ordinances, statutes or
regulations pertaining to transient merchants, peddlers, individual peddlers,
and the like;
         (d)   Applicant’s commission of prior fraudulent acts; and
         (e)   Applicant’s record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
   (B)   Each transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler licensed under
this division shall be issued an identification card by the Police Department.
The identification card shall contain the transient merchant, peddler or
individual peddler’s photograph, name, address, name of business, license
number and effective dates of the license. The identification card must be worn
on the chest area by the transient merchant, peddler or itinerant dealer at all
times said transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler is selling or
attempting to sell goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions
within the town. Failure to wear the identification card is a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 111.07 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   No transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler to whom a license has
been issued under the provisions of this chapter shall refuse, on request, to
show such license to any police officer of the town or to any person that the
transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler is selling or attempting to
sell goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions. Failure to
present the license upon request is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF
LICENSE; HEARING.
   (A)   If the Police Department denies an application for a license, the
applicant shall be notified within five days of the denial and the grounds for
the decision, by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation of a license issued under this chapter shall
be pursuant to §
111.10.
   (C)   Within ten days after the receipt of notification of denial of an
application for license or within ten days after a license under this chapter
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee may file a written
request with the Town Council for public hearing on the application, suspension
or revocation and the grounds upon which the police department based the
denial, suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Upon the filing of such request the Town Council shall fix a time and
place for the hearing, which shall be held within 30 days after the request is
filed, and shall notify the applicant or licensee of same by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing,
the Town Council shall render a written decision granting or denying the
application or upholding or rescinding the revocation or suspension, and shall
state the grounds upon which the decision was based.
   (E)   A copy of the decision shall be served by certified mail, return
receipt requested, upon the applicant.
   (F)   An order of the Town Council shall be subject to review by the Ripley
Circuit or Superior Court.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to the penalty assessed pursuant to §
111.99, a license may be revoked or suspended immediately, subject to the right
to a later hearing under §
111.08, if the Police Department determines that the transient merchant,
peddler or individual peddler has committed one of the following violations and
that the continued operation of the business of the transient merchant, peddler
or individual peddler is a substantial threat to the public health, safety or
general welfare:
   (A)   Made any false statements or misrepresentations of fact for the
purpose of obtaining a license under this chapter;
   (B)   Has engaged in any other fraudulent acts;
   (C)   Violated any provision of this chapter;
   (D)   Violated other ordinances, statutes or regulations pertaining to
transient merchants, peddlers or individual peddlers; or
   (E)   Been convicted of any crime or infraction involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 LICENSE EXPIRATION; LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
on the date specified on the license.
   (B)   Any license issued under this chapter is nontransferable and shall
entitle the holder thereof, for the period indicated therein, unless revoked,
to sell or attempt to sell goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or
subscriptions specified in the application within the town.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 WRITTEN RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   The transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler shall give a written
receipt for all orders taken within the town for future delivery, which receipt
shall be signed by the transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler and
shall set forth a brief description of the goods, wares, merchandise or
services ordered, the total purchase price thereof and the amount of the down
payment received by the transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler from
the purchaser.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   License requirements under this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Salespersons selling goods to retail or wholesale stores for resale;
   (B)   Any person selling or offering for sale goods, wares, merchandise,
food, services or subscriptions in conjunction with a charitable or other civic
non-profit club or organization having an office or chapter in Ripley County,
or that regularly holds meetings in Ripley County;
   (C)   A garage sale on the premises of a homeowner in which the items
offered for sale are primarily items belonging to the homeowner;
   (D)   An auction of goods which originates primarily on the property where
the auction occurs, and which were not moved to the property from another
location for the purpose of sale at the auction; and
   (E)   Any person who has grown the food that is offered for sale.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 111.98 VIOLATION.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for anyone licensed under this
chapter to:
      (1)   Make in-person door to door sales or attempts to sell to
prospective customers before 8:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Solicit or make sales as an itinerant merchant;
      (3)   Impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or obstruct or
hinder the view of pedestrians or motorists, on any street, alley, sidewalk or
right-of-way;
      (4)   Generate litter that is not promptly removed by the transient
merchant or peddler;
      (5)   Sell beverages containing alcohol;
      (6)   Use a device to amplify sound to attempt to sell or attract
attention to the, goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions;
      (7)   Sell or attempt to sell goods, wares, merchandise, food, services
or subscriptions to a person(s) in or on any motorized vehicle;
      (8)   Act in an unlawful or disorderly manner; or,
      (9)   Engage in any other activity that poses a threat to the public
health, safety or general welfare.
   (B)   The Police Department may:
      (1)   Impose reasonable limitations on the locations at which or times
during which goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions may be
sold; and
      (2)   Impose other reasonable restrictions on activity by transient
merchants, peddlers and individual peddlers by stating the restrictions on the
license.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No person shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter. Any
transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler as defined in §
111.01 of this chapter, who sells or offers to sells goods, wares, merchandise,
food, services or subscriptions to any kind of publication in this town without
a license shall be deemed in violation of this section and will be charged a
fine of $2,500. Any itinerant merchant as defined in §
111.01 of this chapter, who sells or offers to sells goods, wares, merchandise,
food, services or subscriptions to any kind of publication in this town shall
be deemed in violation of this section and will be charged a fine of $2,500. A
separate offense is committed for each day the violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any transient merchant, peddler or individual peddler who violates any
other of the provisions of this chapter, or who permits or allows or who aids
and abets in the procuring of a violation of any provision, part of portion of
this chapter, or who causes to be filed or permits or allows to be filed an
application for a license which contains false or fraudulent statements of
fact, shall be deemed in violation of this section. Any transient merchant,
peddler or individual peddler who violates any other provision of this chapter
shall be charged a fine of $100 for each offense. A separate offense is
committed for each day the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 7-17-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Quarry trespassers
   
130.03   Synthetic cannabinoids and methedrone
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   The Police Department for the town is directed to follow I.C. 31-37-3-2 et
seq., as revised and amended.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 130.02 QUARRY TRESPASSERS.
   Any members of the public who violate the posted rules and regulations
regarding the use of the town’s real estate shall be deemed to be “trespassers”
under the criminal statutes and subject to criminal prosecution therefor.
(Ord. 2008-11, passed 8-19-2008)
§ 130.03 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS AND METHEDRONE.
   (A)   Prohibited conduct. It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any
individual or business to use, possess, purchase, attempt to purchase, sell,
publicly display for sale, or attempt to sell, give, or barter any one or more
of the following products containing synthetic cannabinoids or methadone
(products) within the boundaries of the town which contain one or more of the
following chemical compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a-
tetrahydrobenzo [c] chromen-l-ol) (also known as HU-210);
      (2)   2 [(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexy1]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol (also
known as CP47, 497 and its C6, C7, C8, and C9 homologues);
      (3)   Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl) methanone (also known as 1-
Pentyl-3(1-naphtha) indole or JWH-018);
      (4)   Naphthalen-l-yl-(l-butylindol-3-yl) methanone (also known as 1-
BUTYL-3 (1-methyl) indole or JWH-073);
      (5)   Mephedrone (also known as 4-methylmethcathinone (4-MMC), or 4-
methylcphedrone);
      (6)   (6aR, 10aR)-3-(1.1-Dimethylbutyl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydro-6, 6,
9-trimethyl-6H-dibenzo (b,d) pyran (also known as JWH-133);
      (7)   (R)-(+) [2, 3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo (1,
2, 3-de)-1, 4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone (also known as WIN 55,
212-2); and/or
      (8)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
   (B)   Burning prohibited. Products containing synthetic cannabinoids
(products) may not be burned, incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on
any property owned, leased, or controlled by the town.
   (C)   Confiscation and destruction. If any of the substances listed in
division (A) above are found in the possession of any individual or business,
they may be confiscated and destroyed by law enforcement officials as
contraband and without compensation to the individual or business.
   (D)   Exclusions. It is not an offense under division (A) above if the
individual or business was acting at the direction of an authorized law
enforcement agent to enforce or ensure compliance with this section prohibiting
the aforementioned substance.
   (E)   Prescriptions. This section does not apply to any individual or
business who commits any act described in this section pursuant to the
direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to
direct or prescribe such act. This section likewise does not apply to the
inhalation of anesthesia for a medical purpose or dental purpose.
   (F)   Duration. This section shall remain in effect until such time as a
section of the Indiana Code addressing these or similar substances becomes
effective, at which time this section shall automatically be superseded. All
violations occurring prior to that date shall be subject to the penalties
herein regardless whether legal proceedings related thereto have been filed or
concluded prior to the date this section was superseded.
   (G)   Definitions. Any term defined in this section by reference to a state
statute shall have the same meaning whenever used in this section unless
clearly inapplicable by the context in which it is used. Any reference to a
state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time to time, or any
similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to the same or
similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-18-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any individual or business found to be selling, publicly
displaying for sale, or attempting to sell, give, or barter any substance
listed in §
130.03(A) shall be considered to have violated that section and will be subject
to a civil fine of $2,500.
      (2)   Any individual or business found purchasing or possessing any
substance listed in §
130.03(A) shall be considered to have violated that section and will be subject
to a civil fine of $1,000.
      (3)   Any person or entity found in violation of §
130.03 shall be responsible for payment of reasonable cost and attorney fees
associated with the enforcement of §
130.03. Notice of violation of §
130.03 may be provided by any law enforcement officer of the town.
      (4)   The Town Attorney, with the approval of the Town Council, shall
have the authority to seek an injunction to prevent the selling or offering to
sell in violation of §
130.03 by any business which refuses or fails to comply with §
130.03.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-18-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.    STORMWATER
      
153.   EROSION CONTROL
      
154.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Building Commissioner
   
150.03   Unsafe building law
   
150.04   Building permits
   
150.05   Excavation requirement
   
150.06   Building condition requirements
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The following building rules, regulations, and codes of the state’s
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, as set out in the following
articles of 675 I.A.C., are hereby incorporated by reference in this section as
the rules and regulations governing the construction and alteration of
buildings and structures in the town, and shall include later amendments to
those articles as the same are published in the state register or I.A.C. with
effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code; and
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code Amendments.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Code: Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 13 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Codes.
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Code: Indiana Swimming Pool code.
   (B)   All National Flood Insurance Program regulations governing the
construction and alteration of buildings and structures in the town (contained
in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d)) as specified on Attachment A attached to the ordinance
codified herein (section 10 review sheet for NFIP regulations) pertaining to
state and federal permits, subdivision review, building permit review, flood-
proofing non-residential structures, manufactured home standards, utility
construction, record keeping (including lowest floor elevations), and
watercourse alteration and maintenance, are hereby incorporated by reference in
this section and shall include later amendments to these regulations.
   (C)   All construction, alteration, equipment, use and occupancy, removal,
or relocation of buildings and structures in the town shall comply with said
rules.
   (D)   For that purpose, the town adopts by reference all procedures,
penalties, fees, and requirements set forth in county Ords. 1995-2 and 1995-5.
(Ord. 1995-14, passed 8-22-1995)
§ 150.02 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners is the single agency designated to
administer building rules and inspection within the boundaries of the units of
government which are parties hereto.
   (B)   The County Building Commissioner is authorized and empowered to issue
building permits, make inspections, order corrections of violations, issue
certificates of occupancy, and to perform such other ministerial duties as are
commonly performed in the execution of his or her office on behalf of the
parties hereto.
   (C)   Any appeal to a decision by the County Building Commissioner shall lie
first with the County Executive, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, and the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
   (D)   Any judicial remedy sought by the County Building Commissioner shall
lie first with the county to enforce his or her lawful orders to obtain
compliance with the building rules. The parties hereto shall be brought to the
County or Town Attorney of the unit of government within which boundaries a
violation occurs, for disposition.
   (E)   Such permit fees that are collected by the County Building
Commissioner shall be accounted for and deposited in the General Fund of the
county and shall be considered full payment for any inspection services
provided by his or her office on behalf of the parties hereto.
   (F)   This agreement shall be in effect continuously year to year without
the necessity of a formal renewal by any party thereto, unless terminated by
the resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1995-15, passed 8-22-1995)
§ 150.03 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. as
its “unsafe building law”, and hereby designates the County Building Inspector
or any other official appointed by the Town Council as the inspector for
enforcement of these ordinances and designates the Town Council as the “hearing
authority” for said town, and hereby adopts the definitions and standards as
defined in said statutes.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 1-15-2008; Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 150.04 BUILDING PERMITS.
   All requests for building permits, improvement location permits, or for
approval of planning, zoning, and subdivision issues, including requests for
zoning changes, variances, and special exceptions involving real estate located
within the corporate boundaries of the town, shall be submitted to the town for
approval prior to submission to county authorities.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 150.05 EXCAVATION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-26-1 et seq., all persons excavating,
demolishing, or digging on real estate must notify the state’s Underground
Plant Protection Service, by dialing 811, to locate utility lines prior to such
excavation.
   (B)   Any damage occurring to the town’s utility lines or appurtenances as a
result of improper excavating, demolishing, or digging on real estate in the
town shall be paid by the property owner or renter prior to reconnection of the
town’s utility service.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 11-15-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 BUILDING CONDITION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Buildings should be completely enclosed to prevent access of persons,
animals, or weather elements to the premises. Doors should be locked, sealed,
or boarded up; windows should be locked, sealed with all glass intact, or
boarded up; roofs should be maintained to prevent the entrance of persons or
rain, hail, sleet, or snow.
   (B)   Yards, shrubbery, or vegetation should be regularly maintained, mowed,
and trimmed to prevent overgrowth of grass, weeds, and vegetation and to deter
vermin and insect infestations.
   (C)   Wells, cisterns, pools, and water gardens must be completely covered
or enclosed to prevent access by persons and animals.
   (D)   Materials, junk, machinery, or tangible property that could constitute
a fire hazard, a health hazard, a public nuisance, or are dangerous to persons
or property should be removed from the premises and properly disposed.
   (E)   Structures or buildings that remain boarded up or vacant for a period
of more than one year shall be considered a blight to the neighborhood and
shall be either demolished or made habitable.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 1-15-2008) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to provide a “utility locate ticket” to the town utility
personnel when requested, after damage to the town’s utility lines or
appurtenances from improper excavating, demolishing, or digging, will also
result in a fine of $200 that may be collected as such fines and penalties are
collected by the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Planning and zoning
   
151.02   National Flood Insurance Program
§ 151.01 PLANNING AND ZONING.
   (A)   The town does hereby adopt by reference the provisions of county Ord.
2012-06, and does designate the County Area Planning Commission as its planning
and zoning agency.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a copy of this section, together
with county Ord. 2012-06, in the manner the town ordinances are kept and
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-26-2013)
§ 151.02 NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Town Council assures the Federal Insurance Administration that it
will enact as necessary and maintain in force, in those areas having flood or
flood-related erosion hazards, adequate land use and control measures with
effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set forth in the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, being 44 C.F.R. §§ 59 et seq.
   (B)   The Town Council vests the Executive Director of the County Area
Planning Commission with the responsibility, authority, and means to:
      (1)   Assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in the delineation
of the limits of the area having special flood, mudslide, or flood-related
erosion hazards;
      (2)   Provide information the Administrator may request concerning
present uses and occupancy of the floodplain, mudslide, or flood-related
erosion areas;
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map, and identify floodplain, mudflow, or
flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide, and/or flood-related
erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards;
      (4)    Submit, on forms provided by the Administrator, an annual report
on the progress made during the past year within the community in the
development and implementation of floodplain management measures; and
      (5)   Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. Include an accurate
corporate limit map suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new
corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority. The community will use
the Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Hazard Boundary Map published for the
community from which land areas were annexed or from that political entity that
previously had regulatory authority until the Administrator provides a map
using the new corporate limits.
   (C)   The Town Council appoints the Executive Director of the County
Planning Commission to maintain for public inspection and to furnish upon
request, for determining flood insurance premium rates, the following
information on all new and substantially improved structures constructed within
the identified special flood hazard area:
      (1)   The actual (as-built) lowest floor (including basement) elevation
in relation to mean sea level;
      (2)   Any certificates of flood-proofing;
      (3)   Whether or not a building has a basement; and
      (4)   For all flood-proofed structures, the elevation to which the
structure has been flood-proofed.
   (D)   The Town Council agrees to take such other official action as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the objective of the program.
(Res. 2013-7, passed 2-26-2013)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER
Section
   
152.01   Establishment
   
152.02   Administration
   
152.03   Coordination with other programs
   
152.04   Public involvement
   
152.05   Finances
   
152.06   Planning and design
   
152.07   Construction
   
152.08   Water quality
   
152.09   Operations and maintenance
§ 152.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The stormwater management authority is established for the control of
stormwater which affects the town.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The town shall seek to work with the county to establish common goals
and objectives for stormwater management.
   (B)   The program shall be long-term, comprehensive, and cohesive.
   (C)   The town shall establish and maintain a budget for coordinating,
planning, building, operating, repairing, extending, and improving flood
control and stormwater facilities, systems, and services.
   (D)   As necessary, the town shall enact and enforce rules and regulations
addressing:
      (1)   Prescription of the design criteria or service level for stormwater
facilities, systems, and services;
      (2)   Establishment and collection of fees including plan review and
inspection fees (such fees shall only be sufficient to cover the cost of such
review and inspection);
      (3)   Setting of service charge rates, timing of service charge bills,
and procedures for collection; and
      (4)   Protection of the drainage facilities, improvements, and properties
controlled by the town and prescription for their appropriate use.
   (E)   The town shall periodically issue reports regarding the status of
flood control and stormwater drainage services, and shall address in a timely
manner drainage issues in the service area.
   (F)   The town shall periodically review policy for adequacy and
completeness, and shall make recommendations for modifications and/or revisions
to existing policy when necessary.
   (G)   The town shall develop and continue an ongoing program of drainage and
flood control related in-service training for the staff. Topics shall be varied
in nature and shall continue to expand the knowledge and understanding of the
staff involved in any respect of stormwater management.
   (H)   The town shall designate personnel responsible for coordination and
implementation of state and federal program requirements.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.03 COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Cooperation of agencies, jurisdictions, and other entities (including
the land development industry), which impact or are impacted by the stormwater
program, shall be sought to coordinate the requirements of external programs,
new development, and public works facilities with the basinwide plans.
   (B)   The responsibilities of the town do not include those systems
facilities and services which fall outside the town. Systems, facilities (e.g.,
roadway bridges), and services which are the specific responsibility of the
state’s Department of Transportation are also not included. However, the town
shall seek to establish cooperative agreements with other agencies or
jurisdictions to ensure compatible stormwater efforts within the area or
facilities draining to or through the town service area.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.04 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.
   (A)   Drainage planning shall involve concerned public citizens.
   (B)   The town shall continue to inform the public through informational
bulletins, the media, workshops, and educational curricula. It shall also
promote this goal through the dissemination of bulletins and/or informational
material from other related agencies.
   (C)   The town shall explore opportunities for public involvement in the
maintenance of the drainage system including such areas as litter removal from
streams and cost-sharing programs for neighborhood system improvements.
   (D)   The town shall initiate a complaint response outreach program that
provides information regarding chronic problem areas to affected residents.
Such information shall address the history of the problem, the corrective
actions undertaken by the town, and the timing of the corrective actions.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.05 FINANCES.
   (A)   All monies collected through drainage service charges and drainage
fees authorized herein shall be separately identified and accounted for in the
town financial records, and all expenses related to stormwater drainage and
flood control shall be separately identified and accounted for by the town.
   (B)   Funding for the town stormwater activities shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Storm drainage service charges;
      (2)   Permit review and inspection fees. Such fees shall only be
sufficient to cover the cost of such review and inspection; and
      (3)   Other income (obtained from federal, state, local, and private
grants or revolving funds).
   (C)   The town may wish to borrow money and issue negotiable revenue bonds
to acquire, construct, maintain, supplement, and improve stormwater facilities.
Such borrowing may also be used to perform related necessary functions.
   (D)   The town may wish to establish fees for the review of plans or designs
of drainage facilities and for the inspection of the construction of drainage
facilities. The town may also wish to establish policies for the sharing of the
costs of developing regional drainage systems serving multiple developments
and/or properties. Any permit review and/or inspection fees shall cover only
the cost of the service rendered and shall not be used to generate revenues for
other activities.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.06 PLANNING AND DESIGN.
   (A)   The technical criteria and capital improvement portions of the
Stormwater Master Plan shall promote sound development policies which respect,
preserve, and wherever possible, enhance the watercourses of the town.
   (B)   Development shall provide levels of service that are required by the
County Zoning Code.
   (C)   Foundation and/or roof drains conveying other than sanitary wastes may
discharge into any storm sewer or onto a concrete splash block upon the surface
of the ground.
   (D)   Stormwater shall not be admitted into sanitary sewers designed and
intended to be used exclusively as carriers of domestic sewage and suitable
industrial wastes.
   (E)   The town shall, in cooperation with the County Area Planning
Commission and County Drainage Board, if any, establish and publish criteria
for drainage planning and design. Technical criteria for construction,
operation, and maintenance of drainage systems shall also be developed relative
to all public and private drainage facilities and requirements. Such criteria
shall be reviewed and revised periodically to reflect acquisition of new
knowledge, changes in circumstances, and adjustments in overall comprehensive
goals and objectives.
   (F)   Future Stormwater Master Plan updates shall promote a full range of
preventive and corrective approaches, including the following:
      (1)   Preservation of the integrity of existing drainage patterns;
      (2)   Prioritization of improvements to the existing drainage system;
      (3)   Recommendations for system maintenance; and
      (4)   Identification of land acquisition for easements or rights-of-way
for facilities requirements along major drainage routes. Land acquisition may
include purchase, dedication, development rights, and easements.
   (G)   The town shall establish an ongoing program for capital improvements
to the storm drainage system.
   (H)   A comprehensive inventory of stormwater and flood control systems,
pocket ponding locations, sinkholes, flooding areas, developed areas lacking
storm sewer systems, and storm system easements shall be prepared and
maintained as a database for future capital projects and problem correction
activities.
   (I)   Multiple use of drainage facilities is encouraged, provided the use
does not adversely impact the function design of the system.
   (J)   Design of facilities shall incorporate the following considerations:
      (1)   Mosquito control;
      (2)   Disruption of emergency services;
      (3)   High groundwater conditions;
      (4)   Possible impacts to sanitary sewer system;
      (5)   System security;
      (6)   Safety; and
      (7)   Access for facilities maintenance.
   (K)   Stormwater facilities that require storage of water shall be designed
in a manner which does not promote conditions conducive to mosquitoes, rats,
pests, or other conditions potentially harmful to public health.
   (L)   Treatment methods proposed for control of mosquito breeding associated
with any portion of the stormwater system shall be reviewed with, and approved
by, local and/or state public health officials.
   (M)   Storm sewers serving houses and buildings shall be in accordance with
local and/or state plumbing codes.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.07 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All construction projects shall have and implement erosion and
sedimentation control plans.
   (B)   All construction within a floodplain shall be reviewed and permitted
by the County Area Planning Commission.
   (C)   The following practices shall be incorporated into construction of any
facilities.
      (1)   Discharges should not restrict or impede the movement of aquatic
species indigenous to the waters or the passage of normal or expected flows, or
cause the relocation of waters (unless the primary purpose of the fill is to
impound waters).
      (2)   Minimize the adverse impacts on the aquatic system associated with
the discharge of impounded waters.
      (3)   Avoid discharges into wetlands or breeding and nesting areas.
      (4)   Place heavy equipment working in wetlands on mats.
   (D)   A conditional use permit shall be obtained for all excavation and
filling operations. Such permit shall require approval from the town and the
County Area Planning Commission, with review and comment by the Soil
Conservation Service. In addition, filling operations shall conform with the
criteria of local and/or state public health agencies and the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.08 WATER QUALITY.
   The following materials shall not be discharged or allowed to run, leak, or
escape into any public storm sewer, or any appurtenance or waterway connected
with any public sewer, except with the full knowledge and written consent of
permit-issuing agencies:
   (A)   Greases, oils, and oil sludge from garages, repair shops, machine
shops, industrial and other establishments;
   (B)   Paints and waste products from paint manufacturers;
   (C)   Any petroleum products or other product which by reason or quality may
cause a fire or explosion, or in any way be injurious to persons or detrimental
to the system; and
   (D)   Any unshredded garbage, scraps, or vegetables.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 152.09 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A detailed strategy for operational and maintenance elements of the
program shall be developed. The program shall be reviewed and updated
periodically.
   (B)   The property owner or subdivider shall be responsible for the
maintenance of all drainage facilities including inlets, pipes, culverts,
channels, ditches, and retention basins located on his or her land, unless
modified or dedicated and accepted for public use and responsibility by the
owner’s or subdivider’s agreement. Should the owner fail to adequately maintain
the facilities, the town shall have the right to enter said land for the
purpose of operations and maintenance.
   (C)   The maintenance program shall, wherever possible, be preventive and
proactive in nature. As such, clear standards for maintenance service levels
shall be established based on research, staff experience, and established
systems priorities.
   (D)   Common areas associated with new development, which are also used for
drainage facilities, must have clear maintenance plans that include a
delineation of the method for collecting maintenance costs.
   (E)   Drainage easements shall be provided for installation, maintenance,
and repair of drainage facilities.
   (F)   The town shall monitor the design, operation, maintenance, inspection,
construction, and use of all storm sewers, storm drains, and stormwater
facilities in the drainage service area. It shall also monitor facilities
planned outside of the service area which may affect the area.
   (G)   The town shall have a prioritized plan to inspect, maintain, repair,
remove, construct, and operate the drainage facilities on all town streets,
alleys, viaducts, sidewalks, curbs, street crossings, grade separation, and
other public ways and easements and all drains, ditches, culverts, canals,
streams, levees, tunnels, and appurtenances thereof within the service area,
unless otherwise indicated by the town.
   (H)   Every retention and detention basin shall be legally defined in either
a deed or on a record plat and the entity responsible for maintenance
specified.
(Ord. 1997-15-2, passed 7-31-1997)
CHAPTER 153: EROSION CONTROL
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Scope
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   General principles
   
153.05   Standards
   
153.06   Control requirements
   
153.07   Inspection
   
153.08   Enforcement
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to conserve the natural resources, to protect
the quality of air and water, and to protect and promote the health, safety,
and welfare of people, to the extent practicable, by minimizing the amount of
sediment and other pollutants resulting from soil erosion due to land
disturbing activities from being transported off-site to adjacent public or
private lands including ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands, and reservoirs.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
§ 153.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all land disturbing activities on land within
the boundaries and jurisdiction of the County Area Planning Commission,
hereafter referred to as the “jurisdiction”. Agricultural land disturbing
activities, as defined §
153.03, are exempted from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter applies to those sites requiring an improvement location
permit.
   (C)   This chapter does not preclude the applicable from acquiring any other
necessary local, state, and federal permits.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. The disturbance of land for the
production of animal or plant life, including forestry, pasturing of livestock,
and planting, growing, cultivating, and harvesting crops for human or livestock
consumption. This does not include the construction of farm facilities such as
dwellings, barns, sheds, or other structures.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind,
ice, or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, and
grading.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from such sources as rainfall, snow
melt, or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land disturbing activity has been conducted.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
§ 153.04 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   The following principles apply to all land disturbing activities within the
jurisdiction.
   (A)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit the
topography and soils of the site. Areas with steep slopes where deep cuts and
fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes also should be left
undisturbed wherever possible.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions (impervious areas) during and after
development.
   (E)   Minimize the length and steepness of slopes to reduce erosion control.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
§ 153.05 STANDARDS.
   All erosion control measures including, but not limited to, those required
to comply with this chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the same as those
outlined in the state’s Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas,
published by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
§ 153.06 CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met on all sites.
      (1)   Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall be detained by
erosion control measures appropriate to minimize sedimentation.
      (2)   Water shall not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion at,
or downstream of, the point of discharge.
      (3)   All access to building sites that cross a natural watercourse,
drainage easement, or swale/channel shall have a culvert of appropriate size.
      (4)   Wastes or unused building materials including, but not limited to,
garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, toxic materials, and hazardous
substances shall not be carried by runoff from a site. All wastes shall be
disposed of in a proper manner.
      (5)   Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private roadways
shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a temporary gravel
construction entrance, in addition to a well-planned layout of roads, access
drives, and parking areas.
      (6)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water.
      (7)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected against sedimentation
with barriers meeting accepted criteria, standards, and specifications.
      (8)   Runoff passing through a site from adjacent areas shall be
controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas, where practical. Diverted
runoff shall be conveyed in a manner that will not erode the channel and
receiving areas. Alternatively, the existing channel may be left undisturbed or
improved to prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
      (9)   Drainage ways and swales shall be designed and adequately protected
so that their final gradients and resultant velocities will not cause channel
or outlet scouring.
      (10)   Appropriate sediment control practices shall be installed prior to
any land disturbances, and thereafter, whenever necessary.
   (B)   During the period of construction activity at a site, erosion control
measures necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be
maintained.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
§ 153.07 INSPECTION.
   The County Building Inspector or his or her representative may enter the
site for the purpose of verifying compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
§ 153.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall post a stop-work order on the site if the
requirements of this chapter are not being met.
   (B)   If, within 30 days after issuance of a stop-work order, a permit
holder does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Inspector may ask the Executive Director of the County Area Planning Commission
to revoke the improvement location permit.
   (C)   Appeal of the revocation of an improvement location permit may be made
in accordance with the Area Zoning Code § 80.40.
   (D)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter also may be enforced by
injunction.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed - -1997)
CHAPTER 154: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Mobile homes
   
154.02   Perimeter foundation
Manufactured Housing
   
154.15   Intent
   
154.16   Definitions
   
154.17   Scope
   
154.18   Exterior appearance standards
   
154.19   Installation standards
   
154.20   Permits
   
154.21   Temporary uses
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter build, construct, or
put any mobile home on any lot or parcel of land, public street, alley, or
common within the corporate limits of the town, except in a duly and legally
established mobile home park, as defined in division (B) below.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, including the equipment sold as part of a
vehicle, which is so constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance
upon public streets or highways by either self-propelled or not self-propelled
means, which is designed, constructed, reconstructed, or added to by means of
an enclosed addition or rooms in such manner as will permit the occupancy
thereof as a dwelling for one or more persons, which is both used and occupied
as a dwelling having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting, or other
temporary supports.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A mobile home park currently licensed by the state’s
Board of Health.
   (C)   No person shall occupy a mobile home that has been placed on any lots
or parcels of land, public street, alley, or common within the corporate limits
of the town not specifically permitted by the terms of this section.
   (D)   Any peace officer of the town is hereby authorized and directed to
issue an order in writing to any person, firm, or corporation found to be in
violation of this section and a misdemeanor to remove said mobile home within
48 hours.
(Ord. 1981-1, passed 1-20-1981) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 PERIMETER FOUNDATION.
   (A)   All buildings and improvements located on real estate in the town,
which are intended to be utilized for residential housing, shall be placed on,
anchored, and attached to and incorporated onto a permanent, fixed, solid
perimeter foundation.
   (B)   This section may be enforced by the town through the county courts.
(Ord. 2003-12, passed 6-17-2003)
MANUFACTURED HOUSING
§ 154.15 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to regulate and control the
provision of alternative housing in general residential areas by permitting the
use of manufactured homes, as defined in §
154.16, in all districts in which similar dwellings constructed on site are
permitted, subject to the requirements and procedures set forth herein to
assure acceptable similarity in exterior appearance between such manufactured
homes and dwellings that have been or might be constructed under these and
other lawful regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same district.
   (B)   It is the further intent of this subchapter to regulate and control
the provision of alternative housing in certain areas by limiting the
provision, placement, or use of manufactured dwellings, as defined in §
154.16, to a manufactured dwelling or mobile home park and to limit the
provision, placement, or use of mobile homes to a mobile home park.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 154.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains,
ties, or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or mobile home.
   ANSI/NFPA 501 A STANDARD FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE HOMES.
Model national standards (including all authorized successor documents) for
installation of manufactured and mobile homes, as adopted and copyrighted by
the National Fire Protection Association and the Manufactured Housing
Institute.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction by
reason of investigation, accepted principles, or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather resistant material such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated pressed
wood, or other approved materials enclosing the entire undercarriage of the
manufactured or mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A dwelling unit, built in a factory, which possesses
or bears any of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Is single wide in design;
      (2)   Bears a seal of compliance with Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and
constructed after January 1981; or
      (3)   Is a transportable vehicle which is greater than eight feet in body
width or longer than 36 feet in body length and designated and constructed as a
single detached single-family dwelling unit, designed for long-term occupancy,
to be transported, and arriving at site ready for occupancy.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING AND MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land on which two or
more manufactured dwellings or mobile homes are occupied as residences.
    MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site manufacturing
facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code, as amended, and is:
      (1)   Constructed after January 1, 1981;
      (2)   Is double or multi-sectioned; and
      (3)   Exceeds 950 square feet of occupied space.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a design
approval primary inspection agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the state’s Administrative Building Council;
all of which became effective for mobile and manufactured home construction on
June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable vehicle that is greater than eight feet in body
width and longer than 36 feet in body length and designated and constructed as
a detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower, bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing, and electric connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, on
flatbed or other trailer, or detachable wheels; and
      (3)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities, and the like.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated site within a mobile home park or subdivision
for the exclusive use of the occupants of a single mobile home, including
mobile home slab, lawn, driveway, and parking area for said occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land which has been developed with all
necessary facilities and services in accordance with a development plan,
meeting all legal requirements, and which is intended for the purpose of
providing a site for five or more manufactured homes, manufactured dwellings,
or mobile homes for human habitation, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, including any building, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for
use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME SLAB OR FOUNDATION. The solid material upon which the mobile
home rests, consisting of a continuous concrete slab or a permanent foundation.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures such as, but not limited to, garages,
patios, and porches.
   ONE- AND TWO- FAMILY DWELLING CODE. The nationally recognized model building
code prepared by the Council of American Building Officials, adopted by the
state’s Administrative Building Council (ABC) as mandated through P.L. 360,
Acts of 1971, and which includes those supplements and amendments promulgated
by the ABC.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. An approved non-load-bearing perimeter
structural system composed of a continuous solid or mortared masonry wall
having the appearance of a permanent load-bearing foundation characteristic of
site-constructed homes, designed to support the loads imposed and extending
below the established frost line. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure not built to the
federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code (or the
obsolete ANSI 119.1 Mobile Home Design and Construction Standard) designed for
travel, recreational camping, or vacation purposes, either having its own motor
power or mounted onto or drawn by another vehicle including, but not limited
to, travel and camping trailers, truck campers, and motor homes.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten feet in body width and
30 feet in body length.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates, and
shims which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile homes.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 154.17 SCOPE.
   (A)   Permitted placement of manufactured homes. The establishment,
provision, location, placement, and use of manufactured homes, as defined in §
154.16, as permanent residences or businesses shall be permitted in any zone
permitting installation of a dwelling unit or business unit, subject to
requirements and limitations applying generally to such residential or business
uses in the district, and provided such homes shall meet the following
requirements and limitations:
      (1)   The residence or building shall be double or multi-sectioned and
have more than 950 square feet of occupied space;
      (2)   The residence or building shall be located on a building lot of at
least 75 feet by 125 feet;
      (3)   The residence or building shall be compatible or similar in
appearance with the site-constructed residences within the local area;
      (4)   The residence or building shall meet the appropriate exterior
appearance standards as set forth in §
154.18; and
      (5)   The residence or building shall receive all required permits,
including those issued by the town, and conform with the comprehensive plan and
other ordinances of the county and the town.
   (B)   Location of manufactured dwellings and mobile homes in communities or
parks. The establishment, provision, location, placement, and use of all other
manufactured dwellings, as defined in §
154.16, as permanent residences or businesses shall be permitted only in a
mobile home park, as defined in §
154.16, and shall meet the exterior appearance standards of §
154.18 and installation standards of §
154.19.
   (C)   Non-conforming homes. A manufactured dwelling or mobile home placed
and maintained on a tract of land prior to the adoption of this subchapter, but
in violation hereof, shall continue to be a legal non-conforming use. If the
non-conforming use is discontinued, the land thereafter must be used in
conformity with all provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Replacement of non-conforming homes. Thereafter, upon application to
the Town Council and subsequent approval thereof, a manufactured dwelling or
mobile home deemed a legal non-conforming use may be replaced within 90 days by
a manufactured dwelling of newer age and better quality, and as long as said
placement adheres to exterior appearance standards of §
154.18 and installation standards of §
154.19.
   (E)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, any structural
alteration or modification of a manufactured or mobile home after it is placed
on the site must be approved by the authorized County Building Administrator
and the Town Council.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 154.18 EXTERIOR APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall be classified as to acceptable
compatibility or similarity in appearance with site-constructed residences, as
follows:
         (a)   Manufactured homes shall have more than 950 square feet of
occupied space in the double-section or larger multi-section unit;
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be placed onto a permanent foundation;
         (c)   Manufactured homes shall utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure
in accordance with approved installation standards, as specified §
154.19;
         (d)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to the ground in accordance
with the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and manufacturer’s specifications;
         (e)   Manufactured homes shall have wheels, axles, and hitch
mechanisms removed;
         (f)   Manufactured homes shall have utilities connected in accordance
with the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and manufacturer’s specifications;
         (g)   Manufactured homes shall have siding material of a type
customarily used on site-constructed residences (see Approved Materials List);
and
         (h)   Manufactured homes shall have roofing material of a type
customarily used on site-constructed residences (see Approved Materials List).
      (2)   Manufactured homes meeting the foregoing standards and
characteristics are permitted in residential, general business, local business,
and light industrial areas within the town.
   (B)   Manufactured dwellings. Manufactured dwellings are permitted in
manufactured dwelling subdivisions or parks if they meet the following
standards and characteristics.
      (1)   Manufactured dwellings shall have more than 320 square feet of
occupied space in a single, double, or multi-section units.
      (2)   Manufactured dwellings shall be placed onto a support system in
accordance with approved installation standards, as specified in §
154.19.
      (3)   Manufactured dwellings shall be enclosed with foundation siding/
skirting in accordance with approved installation standards, as specified in §
154.19.
      (4)   Manufactured dwellings shall be anchored to the ground in
accordance with manufacturer’s specifications or the ANSI/NFPA 501 Installation
Standards.
      (5)   Manufactured dwellings shall have utilities connected in accordance
with manufacturer’s specifications or the ANSI/NFPA 501 Installation Standards.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 154.19 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permanent perimeter enclosure. Manufactured homes designated in the
zoning ordinance as requiring a permanent perimeter enclosure must be set onto
an excavated area with permanent perimeter enclosure foundations, footings, and
crawl space or basement walls constructed in accordance with the terms of the
home and the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code. The space between the floor
joists of the home and the excavated underfloor grade shall be completely
enclosed with the permanent perimeter enclosure (except for required openings).
   (B)   Foundation siding/skirting.
      (1)   All manufactured dwellings without a permanent perimeter enclosure
shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting enclosing the entire
perimeter of the home. Foundation siding/skirting and back-up framing shall be
weather-resistant, non-combustible, or self-extinguishing materials that blend
with the exterior siding of the home. Below grade level, and for a minimum
distance of six inches above finish grade, the materials shall be unaffected by
decay or oxidation. The siding shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendations or approved equal standards.
      (2)   The siding shall be ventilated by openings that have a net area of
not less than one and one-half square feet for each 25 linear feet of exterior
perimeter. The openings shall be covered with corrosion resistant wire mesh not
larger than one-half inch in any dimension. The underfloor area shall be
provided with an 18-inch by 24-inch minimum size access crawl hole that shall
not be blocked by pipes, ducts, or other construction interfering with the
accessibility of the underfloor space, or other approved access mechanism.
   (C)   Support system.
      (1)   All manufactured home load-bearing foundations shall be installed
in conformance with the regulations in the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code
and with the manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (2)   All manufactured dwelling load-bearing foundations shall be
installed in conformance with the regulations in the One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code and with the manufacturer’s installation specifications.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 154.20 PERMITS.
   (A)   Improvement location permit.
      (1)   Requirements. Prior to the location, relocation, or establishment
of any manufactured home or manufactured dwellings, the property owner or
authorized representative shall secure from the town an improvement location
permit, which states that the building and its location conform with the County
Comprehensive Zoning Plan and this subchapter. Each application for an
improvement location permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   A fee of $75 to process said permit;
         (b)   Those plot plans as required for all dwelling units, but which
at a minimum include elevations or photographs of all sides of the home,
exterior dimensions, roof materials, foundation siding or permanent perimeter
enclosure treatment, foundation siding or perimeter retaining wall treatment,
foundation construction and materials, exterior finishes, and the like (see the
Manufactured Home Data Sheet);
         (c)   Health Department approval for any sewage disposal or water
supply, where applicable;
         (d)   Subdivision or mobile home park permit approval, where
applicable;
         (e)   A copy of the approved instructions that will be used for
installation purposes, where applicable;
         (f)   Such other information as may be required by the town or its
designated administrator for proper enforcement of this subchapter; and
         (g)   An agreement signed by the home owner or authorized
representative pledging compliance with the terms set by the Town Council in
the improvement location permit.
      (2)   Issuance of a permit. After receipt of the information required for
an improvement location permit, the Town Council shall review the standards set
in this subchapter. If the applicant has met all required standards, an
improvement location permit shall be issued by the town within seven working
days.
      (3)   Additional action necessary. If, after receipt of the information
required for an improvement location permit, the Town Council finds that the
applicant has not fully met the standards set in this subchapter and the
changes or additional actions needed are deemed by the town to be relatively
minor or simple, within seven working days a conditional approval can be issued
with the stated conditions which must be met prior to occupancy spelled out and
the reasons for change clearly stated in writing. If the applicant agrees in
writing to the further conditions, the effect being an amendment to the
application to conform to the requirements, approval is given and the applicant
proceeds. If the applicant does not agree, the application is denied with
reasons stated in writing.
      (4)   Denial of permit. If any of the provisions of this subchapter are
not met, the improvement location permit will be denied with a written
statement specifying the reasons for the denial.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Occupancy requirement. Prior to the occupancy of any manufactured
home or manufactured dwelling, the owner or authorized representative shall
secure from the Town Council a certificate of occupancy stating that the
building and its use comply with all provisions of this subchapter applicable
to the building or the use in the district in which it is to be located. Such
certificate of occupancy shall be submitted to the town prior to occupancy.
      (2)   Issuance of certificate. After submission of the application for a
certificate of occupancy to the town, the town shall inspect the property and
make such referrals to other local officials for technical determinations for
conformance with conditions of the improvement location permit and the
standards set in this subchapter. If the applicant has conformed with all of
the required conditions and standards, the town shall issue its certificate of
occupancy within seven working days.
      (3)   Denial of certificate. If any of the major conditions or standards
have not been complied with, the certificate of occupancy shall be denied with
a written statement specifying the reasons for the denial.
   (C)   Failure to obtain required permits. Failure to obtain either an
improvement location permit or a certificate of occupancy shall be violation of
this subchapter and punishable under §
154.99.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.21 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Circumstances for permit issuance. Subject to conditions, fees, and
standards otherwise required by this subchapter, a temporary use permit may be
issued:
      (1)   To an applicant in the process of building a conventional dwelling
to locate a manufactured dwelling on a building lot during the course of
construction of the dwelling; such permit shall not be issued until after a
building permit for the dwelling has been issued;
      (2)   To an applicant to use a manufactured dwelling as a caretaker’s
quarters or construction office at a job site; or
      (3)   To an applicant whose own health or the health of another
necessitates care, and where the facts show that an unnecessary hardship would
occur if not permitted to locate a manufactured dwelling adjacent to the
residence of one who is able to provide such care or in need of such care.
   (B)   Length of permit. A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the town, for a period not to exceed two years. The permit may be
renewed for additional one-year periods showing of good cause and with
permission to do so. However, at the discretion of the town, a temporary use
permit may be issued to an applicant for a health or age related circumstance
for a period coterminous with the health or age related circumstances.
   (C)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary use permit expires, the
manufactured dwelling and all appurtenances shall be removed from the property
within 90 days.
   (D)   Utility requirements. Manufactured dwellings used for temporary uses
shall have an approved water supply, sewage disposal system, and utility
connections.
   (E)   Permit fee. A fee of $50 shall be charged for a temporary use permit
issued by the Town Council. This fee is in addition to all other required
permits/fees for utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to comply with an order issued under §
154.01(D) will constitute a violation of that section and a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, the offending party shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $100. Each day the violation continues after said notice by said officer
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Each day of non-compliance with the provisions §§
154.15 through
154.21 constitutes a separate and distinct violation. Judgment of up to $500
per day may be entered for a violation of §§
154.15 through
154.21. The Town Council may enforce said fine through the appropriate court or
the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau.
      (2)   A home or dwelling placed, located, or sited upon property after
May 1999, which is in violation of §§
154.15 through
154.21, shall be subject to removal from such property. However, the home owner
must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance
before action for removal can be taken. If action finally is taken by the
appropriate authority to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be made a
lien against the property.
      (3)   The Town Council may institute a suit in an appropriate court for
injunctive relief to cause such violation to be prevented, abated, or removed.
(Ord. 1981-1, passed 1-20-1981; Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-18-1999)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   EASEMENTS
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   ZONING
      
V.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  9-19-  Sale of real estate to Thayer Farms, Inc.
3     1989
1992- 2-18-  Vacating alley between Railroad Avenue and Western Avenue.
3     1992
Res.  6-15-
1993- 1993   Purchase of real estate for town hall.
9
Res.  5-17-
1994- 1994   Purchase of land from Noble Roberts and others.
10
1995- 2-21-  Purchase of land for wastewater treatment plant.
4     1995
1996- 1-16-  Vacation of parts of lots 187, 188, and 189.
2     1996
1996- 2-20-  Vacation of party wall.
6     1996
1996- 9-17-  Vacation of property along Buckeye Street.
20    1996
1996- 11-21- Vacation of alley in Louis Wager’s Second Addition.
23    1996
1988- 8-18-  Vacation of alley between Buckeye Street and Elm Street.
8     1998
2004- 9-21-  Vacation of streets and alley in Chaille Subdivision.
6     2004
2005- 11-15- Vacation of part of East Street and alley between East Street and
7     2005   Columbia Avenue.
2006- 10-17- Vacation of alley between Aikins Subdivision and Myer’s Addition.
11    2006
2009- 11-17- Vacation of alley running on the northern boundary of Henry Meyer’s
14    2009   Addition.
2013- 3-4-   Annexation of lands in Section 21, Township 8, Range 11.
3     2013
Res.  5-9-
2013- 2013   Transfer of property to the Redevelopment Commission.
12
2013- 7-16-  Annexation of numerous areas.
7     2013
2019- 9-17-  Vacating that portion of Andrews Street located between U.S. Highway
8     2019   421 (also known as Buckeye Street) on the east and Short Street on
             the west.
            
 
TABLE II: EASEMENTS
Editor’s Note:
   Some of these ordinances and resolutions also deal with other issues
concerning land usage. One table was used to avoid confusion.
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Property Owner Property Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Property Owner            Property Description
Res. 1992-12  11-17-1992  Jac-Cen-Del Community     Twenty feet along the south
                          School Corporation        east boundary.
                          Osgood Development        Permanent electric
1998-11       9-3-1998    Foundation, Inc.          transmission line easement
                                                    to CINergy Corp.
                                                    Eminent domain over the
Res. 1999-6   6-15-1999   Margaret Adams            east boundary of lot no.
                                                    132 in the original Town of
                                                    Osgood.
                                                    Eminent domain over a creek
Res. 1999-7   6-15-1999   Jacob and Doris Fullmer   running through outlots no.
                                                    1 and 3 to the original
                                                    Town of Osgood.
                                                    Eminent domain over a creek
Res. 1999-8   6-15-1999   Charles and Marsha Dunsil running through outlot no.
                                                    7 to the original Town of
                                                    Osgood.
                                                    Eminent domain over a creek
Res. 1999-9   6-15-1999   Stephen and Barbara Long  running through outlots no.
                                                    1 and 2 to the original
                                                    Town of Osgood.
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No Date Passed Description
1982-1       1-19-1982   Street lighting contract approval.
1982-4       4-20-1982   Cable television franchise.
1985-2       - -1985     Cable television franchise.
-            10-2-1985   Cable television franchise.
1987-7       12-15-1987  Water purchase contract approval.
1988-6       6-9-1988    Water purchase contract approval.
1988-8       6-21-1988   Water purchase contract approval.
1988-13      12-20-1988  Water purchase contract approval.
1989-16      12-19-1989  Water purchase contract approval.
1991-7       12-17-1991  Water purchase contract approval.
Res. 1992-11 11-17-1992  Agreement for engineering services for water
                         distribution system.
Res. 1993-3  1-19-1993   Contract for repairs to party wall.
Res. 1993-10 7-20-1993   Demolition agreement for a structure on Ripley Street.
Res. 1993-15 8-26-1993   Contract for limestone sills removal.
Res. 1994-11 8-16-1994   Sewer testing for the Town of Napoleon.
1994-10      12-20-1994  Water purchase contract approval.
Res. 1996-4  1-16-1996   Installation of water meters.
Res. 1996-6  7-16-1996   Interlocal cooperation agreement.
1999-11      8-24-1999   Water purchase contract approval.
2000-8       12-29-2000  Sale of water to the Holton Community Water
                         Corporation.
Res. 2006-5  1-17-2006   Cable television franchise.
Res. 2007-6  4-17-2007   Purchase of gas utility system.
Res. 2007-7  7-9-2007    Natural gas supply agreement.
Res. 2010-6  3-16-2010   Water purchase contract approval.
Res. 2010-7  9-21-2010   Water purchase contract approval.
Res. 2012-9  9-18-2012   Interlocal agreement with Lawrenceburg concerning a
                         grant.
Res. 2016-1  1-6-2016    Contract for cleaning services for Osgood Town Hall
                         and Community Center.
Res. 2016-2  1-6-2016    Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2016-3  1-6-2016    Contract for employment of attorney to represent town.
Res. 2016-4  1-6-2016    Contract for fire protection service to be provided by
                         the Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract between Osgood Volunteer Fire Department and
Res. 2016-5  1-6-2016    Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory, Ripley County,
                         Indiana.
Res. 2017-2  1-4-2017    Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2017-3  4-18-2017   Agreement for legal services.
Res. 2017-4  1-4-2017    Contract for fire protection services to be provided
                         by Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract between Osgood Volunteer Fire Department and
Res. 2017-5  1-4-2017    Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory, Ripley County,
                         Indiana.
Res. 2018-1  1-8-2018    Contract for cleaning services for Town Hall and
                         Community Center.
Res. 2018-2  1-8-2018    Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2018-3  1-8-2018    Agreement for legal services.
Res. 2-18-4  1-8-2018    Contract for fire protection services to be provided
                         by Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract between Osgood Volunteer Fire Department and
Res. 2018-5  1-8-2018    Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory, Ripley County,
                         Indiana.
Res. 2020-1  1-6-2020    Contract for cleaning services for Town Hall and
                         Community Center.
Res. 2020-2  1-6-2020    Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2020-3  1-6-2020    Agreement for legal services.
Res. 2020-4  1-6-2020    Contract for fire protection services to be provided
                         by the Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract between Osgood Volunteer Fire Department and
Res. 2020-5  1-6-2020    Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory, Ripley County,
                         Indiana.
Res. 2021-1  1-4-2021    Contract for cleaning services for Town Hall and
                         Community Center.
Res. 2021-2  1-4-2021    Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2021-3  1-4-2021    Agreement for legal services.
Res. 2021-4  1-4-2021    Contract for fire protection services provided by
                         Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract with Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory
Res. 2021-5  1-4-2021    for fire protection of the Territory by Osgood
                         Volunteer Fire Department.
Res. 2021-6  3-16-2021   Contract with Rusty Fields of Rusty's Animal Control,
                         LLC.
Res. 2022-1  1-10-2022   Contract for cleaning services for Town Hall and
                         Community Center.
Res. 2022-2  1-10-2022   Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2022-3  1-10-2022   Agreement for legal services.
Res. 2022-4  1-10-2022   Contract for fire protection services provided by
                         Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract with Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory
Res. 2022-5  1-10-2022   for fire protection of the territory by Osgood
                         Volunteer Fire Department.
Res. 2023-1  1-3-2023    Contract for cleaning services for Town Hall and
                         Community Center.
Res. 2023-2  1-3-2023    Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2023-3  1-3-2023    Agreement for legal services.
Res. 2023-4  1-3-2023    Contract for fire protection services provided by
                         Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract with Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory
Res. 2023-5  1-3-2023    for fire protection of the territory by Osgood
                         Volunteer Fire Department.
Res. 2024-1  1-3-2024    Contract for cleaning services for Town Hall and
                         Community Center.
Res. 2024-2  1-3-2024    Contract for cleaning services for Gas Utility Office.
Res. 2024-3  1-3-2024    Agreement for legal services.
Res. 2024-4  1-3-2024    Contract for fire protection services provided by
                         Osgood Volunteer Fire Department.
                         Contract with Jackson Center Delaware Fire Territory
Res. 2024-5  1-3-2024    for fire protection of the territory by Osgood
                         Volunteer Fire Department.
                        
 
 
 
TABLE IV: ZONING
 
Ord./Res. No Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No Date Passed Description
1989-8       8-15-1989   Street naming for water plant entrance.
Res. 4,1989  11-14-1989  Declaring a certain area a blighted area.
1992-4       2-18-1992   Street naming for 911 system.
1992-8       4-21-1992   Zoning change from R-3 to LB.
1992-20      12-15-1992  Zoning change from LB to GB.
1995-13      8-15-1995   Zoning change from R-3 to LB.
1996-8       3-12-1996   Zoning change from R-1 to R-2.
1996-18      9-17-1996   Zoning change from I-2 to GB.
1997-3       2-19-1997   Zoning change from LB to I-1.
1997-9       5-20-1997   Zoning change from R-1 to UD.
1998-3       4-21-1998   Zoning change from R-3 to GB.
1998-5       5-19-1998   Zoning change from I-2 to R-1.
1999-9       7-20-1999   Zoning change in Section 15, Township 8, Range 11.
2007-1       1-3-2007    Zoning change from residential to local business.
2012-3       7-17-2012   Designating an area as a local business and commercial
                         district.
Res. 2013-11 5-9-2013    Establishing a business park economic development
                         area.
2016-6       10-18-2016  Zoning change from 21 Lots to 8 Lots.
                         Zoning change from R-2 Residential to General Business
2017-10      11-21-2017  for part of Section 15, Township 8, Range 11, Center
                         Township - 0.1543 acre.
2018-13      12-18-2018  Zoning change from I-1 Industrial to General Business
                         for 98 S. Maple Street.
2019-9       9-17-2019   Zoning change from R-1 Residential to R-e Residential
                         for 430 W. Fairground Ave.
2024-6       3-12-2024   Zoning change from I-1 Enclosed Industrial to General
                         Business for 101 South Maple St.
                        
 
TABLE V: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Ord./Res. No Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No Date Passed Description
Res. 4, 1991 6-18-1991   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 1999-5  4-28-1999   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 1999-6  4-28-1999   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 2000-1  1-18-2000   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 2000-2  1-18-2000   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 2001-1  4-17-2001   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 2001-2  4-17-2001   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 2006-6  2-21-2006   Declaring a revitalization area; tax abatement.
Res. 2008-6  4-15-2008   Waiving certain deadlines related to tax abatement
                         deduction applications.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                 Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
5-3-1                      34.52
5-10.2-1 et seq.           32.04
5-10.3-1-1 et seq.         32.04
5-11-1-10                  31.06
5-11-1-21                  31.06
5-11-1-27                  31.06
5-11-1-27(e)               31.06
5-11-1-27(1)               31.06
5-22                       34.50
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)        34.09
8-1-26-1 et seq.           150.05
8-1.5-3-4                  51.05
9-21-1-3(a)(14)            71.01
9-21-1-3.3                 71.01
14-19-1-0.5                71.02
15-3-4-1                   91.16
15-3-4.6-2                 91.16
22-9-1-4 et seq.           93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           93.01
22-9.5-2-2                 93.02
22-9.5-2-3                 93.02
22-9.5-2-4                 93.02
22-9.5-2-8                 93.02
22-9.5-2-9                 93.02
22-9.5-2-11                93.02
22-9.5-2-13                93.02
22-9.5-3                   93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           93.10
22-9.5-4-8                 93.11
22-9.5-5                   93.02
22-9.5-5-1                 93.03
22-9.5-6                   93.02,
                           93.11
31-37-3-2 et seq.          130.01
33-36-2-1                  33.01
33-36-2-3                  33.02
33-36-3-1                  33.01
35-7-10.1-4                91.18
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)         55.145
36-1-4-2 through 36-1-4-17 30.01
36-1-6-2                   91.30
36-1-6-4                   91.99
36-1-6-9                   33.01,
                           33.04
36-4-6-11                  30.16
36-5-2-2                   30.15,
                           30.16
36-5-2-8                   30.16
36-5-2-9.2                 30.16
36-5-2-9.4                 30.16
36-5-2-9.6                 30.16
36-5-2-9.8                 30.16
36-5-2-10                  30.16
36-5-2-10.2                30.16
36-5-4-12                  30.45
36-5-6-2                   30.15
36-5-6-6                   30.17
36-5-6-7                   30.17
36-5-7-6                   30.47
36-7-4-211                 30.32
36-7-4-218(a)              30.32
36-7-4-218(e)              30.32
36-7-4-218(f)              30.32
36-7-4-220                 30.32
36-7-8-9                   150.02
36-7-9-1 et seq.           150.03
36-7-10.1-3                91.18
36-7-10.1-3(c)             91.18
36-7-10.1-3(d)             91.18
36-7-12 et seq.            30.30
36-7-12-7                  30.30
36-7-14                    30.31
36-9-15.5-2                34.04
36-9-15.5-6(b)             34.04
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1982-2   10-19-1982  32.04
1983-7   10-18-1983  30.33
1984-2   7-17-1984   32.04
1, 1986  8-19-1986   34.08
3        9-19-1989   TSO I
4,1989   11-14-1989  TSO IV
4        11-20-1990  32.04
4, 1991  6-18-1991   TSO V
1992-11  11-17-1992  TSO III
1992-12  11-17-1992  TSO II
1993-3   1-19-1993   TSO III
1993-9   6-15-1993   TSO I
1993-10  7-20-1993   TSO III
1993-15  8-26-1993   TSO III
1994-9   5-17-1994   31.03
1994-10  5-17-1994   TSO I
1994-11  8-16-1994   TSO III
1996-4   1-16-1996   TSO III
1996-6   7-16-1996   TSO III
1998-5   4-21-1998   30.49
1999-5   4-28-1999   TSO V
1999-6   4-28-1999   TSO V
1999-6   6-15-1999   TSO II
1999-7   6-15-1999   TSO II
1999-8   6-15-1999   TSO II
1999-9   6-15-1999   TSO II
2000-1   1-18-2000   TSO V
2000-2   1-18-2000   TSO V
2001-1   4-17-2001   TSO V
2001-2   4-17-2001   TSO V
2006-5   1-17-2006   TSO III
2006-6   2-21-2006   TSO V
2007-5   2-20-2007   34.65 
                     34.68
2007-6   4-17-2007   TSO III
2007-7   7-9-2007    TSO III
2008-5   1-8-2008    30.46
2008-6   4-15-2008   TSO V
2009-5   2-17-2009   31.02
2010-6   3-16-2010   TSO III
2010-7   9-21-2010   TSO III
2012-9   9-18-2012   TSO III
2013-7   2-26-2013   151.02
2013-11  5-9-2013    TSO IV
2013-12  5-9-2013    TSO I
2016-1   1-6-2016    TSO III
2016-2   1-6-2016    TSO III
2016-3   1-6-2016    TSO III
2016-4   1-6-2016    TSO III
2016-5   1-6-2016    TSO III
2016-6   12-20-2016  31.04
2016-7   12-20-2016  31.05
2017-1   1-4-2017    TSO III
2017-2   1-4-2017    TSO III
2017-3   4-18-2017   TSO III
2017-4   1-4-2017    TSO III
2017-5   1-4-2017    TSO III
2017-6   11-21-2017  31.07
2018-1   1-8-2018    TSO III
2018-2   1-8-2018    TSO III
2018-3   1-8-2018    TSO III
2018-4   1-8-2018    TSO III
2018-5   1-8-2018    TSO III
2020-1   1-6-2020    TSO III
2020-2   1-6-2020    TSO III
2020-3   1-6-2020    TSO III
2020-4   1-6-2020    TSO III
2020-5   1-6-2020    TSO III
2021-1   1-4-2021    TSO III
2021-2   1-4-2021    TSO III
2021-3   1-4-2021    TSO III
2021-4   1-4-2021    TSO III
2021-5   1-4-2021    TSO III
2021-6   3-16-2021   TSO III
2022-1   1-10-2022   TSO III
2022-2   1-10-2022   TSO III
2022-3   1-10-2022   TSO III
2022-4   1-10-2022   TSO III
2022-5   1-10-2022   TSO III
2023-1   1-3-2023    TSO III
2023-2   1-3-2023    TSO III
2023-3   1-3-2023    TSO III
2023-4   1-3-2023    TSO III
2023-5   1-3-2023    TSO III
2024-1   1-3-2023    TSO III
2024-2   1-3-2023    TSO III
2024-3   1-3-2023    TSO III
2024-4   1-3-2023    TSO III
2024-5   1-3-2023    TSO III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
11        - -         Ch. 72, Sch. IV
102       7-2-1915    92.01,
                      92.99
1-1959    10-26-1959  11.01
1981-1    1-20-1981   154.01,
                      154.99
1981-5    7-21-1981   30.34
1982-1    1-19-1982   TSO III
1982-4    4-20-1982   TSO III
1985-2    --1985      TSO III
1985-3    4-16-1985   70.01,
                      70.99
-         10-2-1985   TSO III
1986-6    12-16-1986  34.01
1987-7    12-15-1987  TSO III
1988-6    6-9-1988    TSO III
1988-8    6-21-1988   TSO III
1988-11   10-18-1988  Ch. 72, Sch. I
1988-13   12-20-1988  TSO III
1989-1    4-18-1989   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1989-8    8-15-1989   TSO IV
1989-16   12-19-1989  TSO III
1990-11   9-18-1990   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1991-7    12-17-1991  TSO III
1992-3    2-18-1992   TSO I
1992-4    2-18-1992   TSO IV
1992-8    4-21-1992   TSO IV
1992-10   6-30-1992   91.32
1992-13   9-15-1992   Ch. 72, Sch. I
1992-18   10-20-1992  Ch. 72, Sch. II
1992-20   12-15-1992  TSO IV
1993-20   - -1993     Ch. 73, Sch. I
1993-1    1-19-1993   30.01
1993-2    1-19-1993   30.15 
                      30.17
                      93.01 
                      93.08,
6, 1993   1-19-1993   93.10,
                      93.11,
                      93.99
1993-8    3-2-1993    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1993-10   4-20-1993   30.02
1993-16   9-21-1993   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1993-22   12-21-1993  Ch. 73, Sch. I
                      Ch. 72, Sch. II,
1994-5    - -1994     Ch. 72, Sch. IV,
                      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1994-2    2-15-1994   34.07
1994-7    7-19-1994   Ch. 72, Sch. II
1994-8    7-19-1994   34.21
1994-9    7-19-1994   50.03
1994-10   12-20-1994  TSO III
1995-3    2-21-1995   Ch. 72, Sch. III
1995-4    2-21-1995   TSO I
1995-6    4-18-1995   32.03
1995-8    6-20-1995   Ch. 72, Sch. II
1995-13   8-15-1995   TSO IV
1995-14   8-22-1995   150.01
1995-15   8-22-1995   150.02
1995-17   12-19-1995  30.45
1996-2    1-16-1996   TSO I
1996-4    2-20-1996   92.04
1996-6    2-20-1996   TSO I
1996-7    2-20-1996   30.32
1996-8    3-12-1996   TSO IV
1996-9    3-12-1996   Ch. 72, Sch. II
1996-11   5-21-1996   Ch. 72, Sch. II
1996-12   5-21-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. I
         7-16-1996   90.12
1996-17   8-20-1996   32.15 
                      32.24
1996-18   9-17-1996   TSO IV
1996-19   9-17-1996   Ch. 72, Sch. IV,
                      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1996-20   9-17-1996   TSO I
1996-23   11-21-1996  TSO I
                      54.01 
1996-25   12-17-1996  54.08,
                      54.99
1997-1    1-21-1997   Ch. 72, Sch. II
1997-2    1-21-1997   34.06
1997-3    2-19-1997   TSO IV
1997-4    3-18-1997   Ch. 72, Sch. II
1997-5    - -1997     153.01 
                      153.08
1997-6    4-15-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1997-9    5-20-1997   TSO IV
1997-10   5-20-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1997-15-2 7-31-1997   152.01 
                      152.09
1997-17   8-19-1997   30.45
1997-22   11-18-1997  32.02
1997-23   12-18-1997  30.02
1997-26   12-18-1997  30.02
1998-3    4-21-1998   TSO IV
1998-4    4-21-1998   30.48
1998-5    5-19-1998   TSO IV
1988-8    8-18-1998   TSO I
1998-11   9-3-1998    TSO II
1998-14   10-15-1998  Ch. 73, Sch. I
1998-15   11-17-1998  Ch. 73, Sch. I
1998-16   11-17-1998  32.01
                      51.01 
1998-17   1-19-1999   51.05,
                      51.99
1999-2    4-20-1999   34.50 
                      34.52
1999-3    5-18-1999   34.35 
                      34.38
                      154.15 
1999-4    5-18-1999   154.21,
                      154.99
1999-8    7-20-1999   30.47
1999-9    7-20-1999   TSO IV
1999-11   8-24-1999   TSO III
         8-15-2000   92.05
2000-8    12-29-2000  TSO III
         8-15-2000   92.05
2002-3    5-21-2002   91.01,
                      91.99
                      51.40 
2002-5    8-10-2002   51.46,
                      51.99
2003-9    5-20-2003   34.22
2003-10   5-20-2003   150.04
2003-12   6-17-2003   154.02
2004-1    7-20-2004   Ch. 72, Sch. II
2004-6    9-21-2004   TSO I
2004-8    12-21-2004  34.05
2005-2    5-17-2005   51.04
2005-3    5-17-2005   54.07
2005-5    5-17-2005   54.36,
                      54.99
2005-7    11-15-2005  TSO I
2006-10   9-19-2006   51.60 
                      51.64
2006-11   10-17-2006  TSO I
2006-12   10-17-2006  31.01
2006-13   11-21-2006  34.20
2006-14   11-30-2006  30.02
2007-1    1-3-2007    TSO IV
2007-4    6-19-2007   54.20 
                      54.24
2007-5    7-17-2007   50.02
2007-6    7-17-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                      52.01 
                      52.03,
2008-1    1-8-2008    52.15 
                      52.22,
                      52.99
2008-2    1-15-2008   150.03
2008-3    1-15-2008   150.06
2008-4    2-18-2008   91.31,
                      91.99
2008-7    5-20-2008   50.01
2008-8    5-20-2008   34.02
2008-9    6-17-2008   34.20
2008-10   7-15-2008   Ch. 72, Sch. II
2008-11   8-19-2008   130.02
2009-2    2-17-2009   130.01
2009-3    3-17-2009   53.01,
                      53.99
                      90.01 
2009-4    3-17-2009   90.04,
                      90.99
2009-5    3-17-2009   110.01,
                      110.99
2009-6    4-21-2009   34.03
2009-7    4-21-2009   92.03,
                      92.99
                      71.01 
2009-8    6-15-2009   71.09,
                      71.99
                      91.30,
2009-12   11-17-2009  91.99,
                      92.99
                      91.15 
2009-13   11-17-2009  91.19,
                      91.99
2009-14   11-17-2009  TSO I
2009-15   12-15-2009  33.01 
                      33.05
                      55.001 
                      55.004,
                      55.015 
                      55.019,
                      55.030 
                      55.033,
                      55.045 
                      55.051,
                      55.065 
                      55.072,
                      55.085—
2010-2    4-20-2010   55.093,  
                      55.110,
                      55.111,
                      55.125,
                      55.140 
                      55.147,
                      55.160,
                      55.161,
                      55.175 
                      55.177,
                      55.190 
                      55.192
                      51.03,
2010-4    12-21-2010  51.20 
                      51.25
2010-7    12-21-2010  51.04
2011-1    1-18-2011   130.03,
                      130.99
2011-3    4-19-2011   34.04
2011-5    8-16-2011   54.35
2011-6    11-15-2011  150.05,
                      150.99
2012-2    6-19-2012   92.02,
                      92.99
         6-19-2012   92.06
2012-3    7-17-2012   TSO IV
2013-1    1-15-2013   53.02
2013-2    2-26-2013   151.01
2013-4    3-19-2013   30.31
5         5-8-2013    30.30
2013-3    3-4-2013    TSO I
2013-7    5-21-2013   30.45
2013-7    7-16-2013   TSO I
2013-8    9-17-2013   70.02
                      91.15 
2015-1    9-15-2015   91.19,
                      91.99
                      52.01 
                      52.03,
2015-2    10-20-2015  52.15 
                      52.22,
                      52.99
2016-1    2-16-2016   Adopting Ordinance
2016-2    6-21-2016   34.09
2016-3    6-21-2016   31.06
2016-6    10-18-2016  TSO IV
                      51.20,
2016-7    12-20-2016  51.22 
                      51.25
2017-1    6-20-2017   150.03
2017-3    7-18-2017   Adopting Ordinance
                      51.20,
2017-4    8-15-2017   51.22 
                      51.25
2017-5    12-19-2017  90.10,
                      90.99
2017-6    12-19-2017  90.11,
                      90.99
2017-8    11-21-2017  34.10
2017-9    11-21-2017  91.40
2017-10   11-21-2017  TSO IV
2017-11   12-19-2017  92.04
2018-1    3-20-2018   51.03
2018-2    3-20-2018   70.03,
                      70.04
2018-5    4-17-2018   34.11
2018-6    7-17-2018   94.01 
                      94.08
                      111.01 
2018-7    7-17-2018   111.12,
                      111.98,
                      111.99
2018-8    9-18-2018   51.04
2018-9    9-18-2018   52.21
2018-10   8-21-2018   91.02,
                      91.99
2018-13   12-18-2018  TSO IV
2019-1    1-15-2019   91.33,
                      91.99
2019-2    3-19-2019   53.02
2019-3    4-16-2019   34.12
2019-4    7-16-2019   53.02
                      70.03,
2019-5    9-17-2019   70.04,
                      70.99
2019-7    9-17-2019   Adopting Ordinance
2019-8    9-17-2019   TSO I
2019-9    9-17-2019   TSO IV
2020-2    7-21-2020   90.10,
                      90.99
2020-4    9-15-2020   32.35 
                      32.41
                      93.01 
2020-5    9-15-2020   93.11,
                      93.99
2020-6    11-17-2020  Adopting Ordinance
2020-8    11-17-2020  91.31
2020-9    12-15-2020  91.31
2021-1    1-19-2021   34.04
2021-2    2-23-2021   94.02
2021-5    5-18-2021   34.13
2021-7    - -         32.21
2022-1    5-17-2022   32.22
2022-2    5-17-2022   34.22
2022-3    7-19-2022   70.05
2022-6    12-20-2022  32.25
2023-1    4-18-2023   51.22–
                      51.26
2023-2    4-18-2023   54.35
2023-4    7-18-2023   94.02
2023-7    12-19-2023  32.26
2024-1    2-20-2024   34.14
2024-2    2-20-2024   92.02
                      55.001—
                      55.004,
                      55.015—
                      55.019,
                      55.030—
                      55.033,
                      55.045—
                      55.051,
                      55.065—
                      55.072,
                      55.085—
2024-3    3-12-2024   55.093,
                      55.110,
                      55.111,
                      55.125,
                      55.140—
                      55.147,
                      55.160,
                      55.161,
                      55.175—
                      55.177,
                      55.190—
                      55.192
2024-4    2-20-2024   94.03
2024-4A   2-20-2024   92.02
2024-5    3-12-2024   91.99
2024-6    3-12-2024   TSO IV
2024-8    11-19-2024  91.31
                     
 
 
