OWEN COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through CC Ord. 2024-016, passed 7-8-2024; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
COUNTY OFFICIALS
Board of Commissioners
Board of Commissioners
Gary Burton        
Sam Hobbs          
David Risk         
County Council
Daniel Browning    
Steve Carrell      
Polly Chesser      
Verl Keith         
Joe Frye           
Anton Neff         
Nick Robertson     
                  
County Auditor    Sheila Reeves
County Treasurer  Shelly Townsend
County Clerk      Diane Stutsman
County Recorder   Loretta Foster
County Sheriff    Ryan White
County Assessor   Dusty White
County Coroner    Shelby Hershberger
County Judge      Kelsey Hanlon
County Judge      Donald VanDerMoere II
County Prosecutor Benjamin Kim
County Surveyor   Amy Meier
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No. 2020-0046
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR OWEN COUNTY, INDIANA, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivisions are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Owen County Board of Commissioners has authorized a general
compilation and revision and codification of the Ordinances of Owen County of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at any early date.
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Owen County
the following:
SECTION ONE.    CODIFICATION AUTHORIZED-ADOPTED
   a)    Pursuant to and in compliance with I.C. 36-1-5-4 the general
ordinances of Owen County, Indiana are hereby codified, revised, amended,
restated and compiled into a complete simplified code, excluding formal parts
of the ordinances, in book form and are hereby adopted as and shall constitute
the "Code of Ordinances of Owen County, Indiana."
SECTION TWO.    TABLE OF CONTENTS
   a)    Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section One shall consist of the
following Titles:
      Title I: General Provisions
      10. General Provisions
      Title III: Administration
      30.   General Provisions
      31.   County Organizations
      32.   Sheriffs Department
      33.   County Emergency Medical Services
      34.   Elections
      35.   Funds
      36.   Taxation and Finance
      37.   County Policies
      38.   Purchasing
      39.   Personnel Policies
      40.   Fees
      Title V: Public Works
      50.   Solid Waste
      51.   Recycling
      52.   Sewage
      53.   Infrastructure Development Zone
      Title VII: Traffic Code
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Traffic Regulations
      72.   Parking Generally
      73.   Recreational Vehicles
      74.   Traffic Schedules
      75.   Parking Schedules
      Title IX: General Regulations
      90.   Nuisances
      91.   Special Events
      92.   Alarm Systems
      93.   Fair Housing
      94.   Streets, Roads, and Driveways
      95.   Wells
      96.   Parks
      Title XI: Business Regulations
      110.   Transient Merchants
      111.   Food Establishments and Protection
      112.   Contractors
      113.   Salvage Yards
      114.   Cable Communications Services
      Title XIII: General Offenses
         (Reserved)
      Title XV: Land Usage
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   Building Code
      152.   Road Identification and Property Numbering
      153.   Flood Hazard Areas
      154.   Mining
      155.   Zoning and Subdivision Control
      Table of Special Ordinances
      I.   Vacations and Road-Related Regulations
      II.   Franchises
      III.   Agreements and Contracts
      IV.   Economic Revitalizations Areas
      V.   Property Transactions
      Parallel References
      References to Indiana Code    
      References to Resolutions
      References to Ordinances
      Index
SECTION THREE.    INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
   a)    Pursuant to Indiana Code 36-1-5-4, the legislative body of Owen County
may incorporate by reference into an ordinance or code any material. Two (2)
copies of the incorporated material are on file in the office of the clerk for
the legislative body for public inspection and these copies must be on file as
stated for public inspection.
SECTION FOUR.   CODE AS EVIDENCE
   a)    Pursuant to Indiana Code 36-1-5-5 the printed "Code of Ordinances of
Owen County, Indiana" which has taken effect constitutes presumptive evidence
in any legal proceeding:
      1)   of the provisions of the Code
      2)   of the date of adoption of the Code
      3)   that the Code has been properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved; and
      4)   that any public hearings required have been held, with any notices
required given.
SECTION FIVE.   PRIOR ORDINANCES
   a)   All prior Ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code of
Ordinances of Owen County, Indiana, shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this Ordinance except as they are included and reordained in
whole or in part in the Code of Ordinances of Owen County; provided, such
repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right
established prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, nor shall the repeal
affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances
of Owen County, Indiana.
SECTION SIX.   PUBLICATION
   a)    The Code of Ordinances of Owen County, Indiana, shall be deemed
published as of the day of its adoption and approval by the Owen County Board
of Commissioners, and the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code of Ordinances of Owen County,
Indiana, in the Office of the Auditor of Owen County. The Code of Ordinances of
Owen County, Indiana, shall be in full force and in effect as provided in
Section Seven.
SECTION SEVEN.   EMERGENCY
   a)   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Passed and adopted by the Board of Commissioners of Owen County, State of
Indiana, in a regular meeting held on the  8th  day of  September , 2020.
OWEN COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
                        Jeff Brothers/s/
                        Jeff Brothers, President
                        Gary Burton/s/
                        Gary Burton, Vice-President
                        Steve Williamson/s/
                        Steve Williamson, Commissioner
ATTEST: Patty Steward/s/
    Patty Steward, Auditor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Code of Owen
County, Indiana”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of Owen County, Indiana.
      COUNCIL. The County Council of Owen County, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Owen, State of Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any division prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships located within the county.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   The power to prescribe a penalty of imprisonment for an ordinance
violation is prohibited by I.C. 36-l-3-8(a)(9).
   (B)   Whenever in any ordinance of the county, any act which is prohibited
or is made or declared to be unlawful, or whenever the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and where no
specific penalty is provided, the violation of any such provision shall be
punished by a fine not less than $100 nor more than $2,500 for the first
violation of the ordinance. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for
each day during which or on which a violation occurs or continues to occur. A
second or subsequent violation of the ordinance shall be punished by a fine not
less than $100 nor more than $7,500.
   (C)   The violation of an ordinance or regulation concerning air emissions
established by an air permit program established under I.C. 13-17-12-6 shall be
punished by a fine not less than $100 nor more than $10,000.
   (D)   The fines prescribed in division (B) of this section do not apply to
violations of ordinances that regulate traffic or parking.
(BC Ord. 2019-0014, passed 8-5-2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
      
33.   COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FUNDS
      
36.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
37.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
38.   PURCHASING
      
39.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
40.   FEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Home rule
   
30.002   Meetings
   
30.003   Meeting times and payroll
   
30.004   Bill of Rights Day
   
30.005   Recorder to watermark bulk form copies
   
30.006   Closure of county offices due to inclement weather
   
30.007   Legal representation for members of county executive, legislative and
fiscal bodies
   
30.008   County courthouse and security procedures
   
30.009   Credit card payments
   
30.010   Broadband ready community
   
30.011   Dishonored checks/electronic payments
Approval and Pre-Approval of Claims and Allowances
   
30.020   Title and purpose
   
30.021   Authority
   
30.022   Procedure
   
30.023   Specific payments
Policy and Procedure for Reviewing and Paying Claims
   
30.030   Allowance of claims
   
30.031   Procedure for review of claims
   
30.032   Documentation required for support of claim based on delivery of
supplies to the county
   
30.033   Documentation required for support of claims for services performed
for county
   
30.034   Fiscal report
Public Funds Investment
   
30.035   Public funds investment
Grant Application Review
   
30.050   Before grant application
   
30.051   After grant application
Restricting Home Addresses on County’s Property Website
   
30.065   Definitions
   
30.066   Process
   
30.067   Result of changes to access of property information
   
30.068   Immunity and litigation proceedings
   
30.069   Reversal of privacy settings
   
30.070   Confidentiality
Building and Grounds Use Policy
   
30.085   Department building use
   
30.086   General rules of conduct for use of buildings or facilities
   
30.087   Damages; insurance
Conditions For Use of Public Information Received on Disk, Tape or Electronic
Format
   
30.100   Conditions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 HOME RULE.
   (A)   Acknowledgment of powers granted by state.
      (1)   The county does hereby acknowledge the policy of the state
expressed in I.C. 36-1-3-2 to grant to the county all the powers that it needs
for the effective operation of government as to local affairs.
      (2)   The county does hereby acknowledge the powers that the state has
granted to the county in I.C. 36-1 and other statutes to implement that policy.
      (3)   The county does hereby acknowledge the procedures by which the
county must exercise any power.
   (B)   Powers of the county.
      (1)   The county has:
         (a)   All the powers granted it by statute, including, but not limited
to, I.C. 36-1-3 et seq.; and
         (b)   All other powers necessary or desirable in the conduct of its
affairs, even though not granted by statute.
      (2)   The county may exercise any power it has to the extent that the
power is not expressly:
         (a)   Denied by the Indiana Constitution or by statute, including I.C.
36-1-3-8; or
         (b)   Granted to another entity.
   (C)   Procedures for the exercise of the powers of the county.
      (1)   The county shall exercise a power in the specific manner required
by any constitutional or statutory provision.
      (2)   If there is no constitutional or statutory provision requiring a
specific manner for exercising a power, and the county wants to exercise the
power, the county:
         (a)   Through its Board of Commissioners, shall adopt an ordinance
prescribing a specific manner for exercising the power; or
         (b)   Shall comply with a statutory provision permitting, but not
requiring, a specific manner for exercising the power.
(BC Ord. 1998-8, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 30.002 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Commissioners are to meet the first and third
Monday of the month unless the Monday is a county holiday, then the meeting
will be scheduled for the Tuesday of that week. First Monday of the month
meeting is at 9:00 a.m. and third Monday of the month is at 6:00 p.m. All
meetings are scheduled to be held at the Owen County Courthouse, Commissioner
meeting room, Second Floor, 60 South Main Street, Spencer, Indiana 47460. Any
location or scheduled meeting date change will be announced in the local paper,
county website and front door of the courthouse.
   (B)   Agenda. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-4, the Board of Commissioners will
utilize an agenda and shall post a copy of the agenda at the entrance to the
location of the meeting prior to the meeting.
   (C)   Approval of agenda.
      (1)   The President or Vice President will approve the agenda for the
regularly scheduled Board of Commissioners meeting before 9:00 a.m. three
working days prior to the meeting.
      (2)   The approved agendas will be provided via electronic mail to all
department heads and elected officials two working days prior to the regularly
scheduled Board of Commissioners meeting.
(BC Res. 2019-001, passed - -2019; BC Res. 2020-0018, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 30.003 MEETING TIMES AND PAYROLL.
   The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Auditor to distribute payroll to
county employees in the morning of its bi-weekly meetings unless the Auditor
has concerns about a specific payroll matter, in which case the Auditor shall
not distribute those payroll checks he or she has concern about and bring the
matter before the Board at its meeting on that date.
(CC Res. passed 1-8-2001)
§ 30.004 BILL OF RIGHTS DAY.
   (A)   The first ten amendments to the Constitution of the United States of
America, known collectively as the Bill of Rights, was ratified on December 15,
1791.
   (B)   The Bill of Rights recognizes, affirms and protects fundamental human
and civil rights for which persons of all races have struggled for thousands of
years.
   (C)   To preserve the rights and freedoms secured by the Bill of Rights, the
nation’s forefathers, and hundreds of thousands of men and women serving at the
police agencies and Armed Forces of the United States, have sacrificed,
suffered and died.
   (D)   The rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Bill of Rights deserve
perennial celebrations; the sacrifices made to protect the Bill of Rights
deserve eternal remembrance.
   (E)   In the county, there has been no regular formal observance of a
special day commemorating the ratification of the Bill of Rights. Several of
the original states refused to ratify the Constitution without an express Bill
of Rights.
   (F)   To commemorate the Bill of Rights with a special day would honor the
fundamental rights it enshrines and the sacrifices made to create and preserve
these rights, and would proclaim these rights to the citizens of the county, to
the nation and to the world.
   (G)   (1)   A copy of the Bill of Rights shall be conspicuously posted at
the county courthouse and provided to all citizens upon request. December 15 of
every year is designated Bill of Rights Day in the county.
      (2)   All government agencies are encouraged to observe the annual Bill
of Rights Day in a manner that brings to mind the meaning and importance of
each of the ten articles contained in that Bill.
      (3)   The first annual commemoration of Bill of Rights Day was on
December 15, 2001.
(BC Res. 2001-46, passed 11-29-2001)
§ 30.005 RECORDER TO WATERMARK BULK FORM COPIES.
   The Recorder shall watermark all bulk form copies with the following:
This document is provided for the sole use of (insert bulk user name) and
except as provided for in I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(h), shall not be resold pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-7-10.1. Official copies may be obtained at the County Recorder’s
office.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 30.006 CLOSURE OF COUNTY OFFICES DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNTY EXECUTIVE. The Owen County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY FACILITIES. Any county building or site where services are
provided or work is performed.
      EMERGENCY. Severe weather conditions, fires, tornadoes, power failures,
national crisis or other conditions which endanger safety or render facilities
or portions of facilities inaccessible or unusable.
   (B)   Declaration and notification of declared emergency due to inclement
weather conditions.
      (1)   Declaration of emergency. During emergency weather conditions, the
County Board of Commissioners, as the county executive body, may declare an
emergency and thereby close county facilities or portions of facilities for
specified shifts, or for longer periods of time. The county executive may also
allow employees to be dismissed early and may excuse tardiness during a
declared emergency. Only the county executive may declare that an emergency
condition exists.
      (2)   Notification of declared emergency. The county executive will
notify the department heads that an emergency has been declared, and which
facilities, shifts or operations are affected by the declaration. The
department heads must notify their employees of such emergency. All emergency
closing will be posted on the county website.
   (C)   Compensation of employees.
      (1)   Facilities closed. The county executive may close county facilities
or portions of facilities and completely excuse employees from work due to the
declared emergency. Employees excused from work will be compensated at their
regular rates of pay. Employees excused from work and who remained at the
request of their department head may earn equivalent time off for their hours
worked.
      (2)   Employee tardiness. Employees have the responsibility of reporting
to work on time whenever county facilities are open. However, under certain
circumstances which require the declaration of an emergency, but which are not
severe enough to close county facilities, the county executive may allow non-
essential employees additional time to report to work. For facilities or
portions of facilities that remain open during a declared emergency, the county
executive may allow non-essential employees an additional two hours to report
to work or any 15-minute increment thereof. Employees who report to work within
the first two hours of the assigned shift will be paid at their normal rate of
pay for the full two hours or any 15-minute increment thereof. Employees who do
not report to work within the first two hours will not be paid for those two
hours unless the employee has vacation, compensatory time off or other
legitimate reason for pay.
      (3)   Early dismissal. The county executive may dismiss employees working
in facilities or portions of facilities before the end of their shift. In this
case, the county executive will notify department heads of the declared
emergency. Employees dismissed early will be paid their normal rate of pay
until the end of their shift.
      (4)   Emergencies during periods of previously scheduled time off. When
an employee has previously scheduled a period of absence from work and an
emergency is declared during his or her absence, the employee will be charged
with the use of vacation, sick leave, compensatory time off or any other form
of leave that had previously been scheduled.
   (D)   Employees engaged in emergency and/or weather related operations.
Employees that perform public services such as police, fire, emergency medical
treatment or any weather-related operation for the county are required to work
during declared emergencies and will not be excused from work.
(BC Ord. 2009-11, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 30.007 LEGAL REPRESENTATION FOR MEMBERS OF COUNTY EXECUTIVE, LEGISLATIVE AND
FISCAL BODIES.
   The county shall provide, through the County Attorney, legal services and
representation for any and all members of the County Board of Commissioners who
are sued individually as a result of the performance of said individual’s
duties as Commissioner.
(BC Ord. 1992-5, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 30.008 COUNTY COURTHOUSE AND SECURITY PROCEDURES.
   The county courthouse and security procedures, copies of which are available
in the county offices, are adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(BC Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. BC 2019-0036, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 30.009 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The County Council authorizes the acceptance of bank card or credit
card payments by the county offices for payment of services rendered by that
department or for payment of court ordered fees.
   (B)   The county may contract with GovPay as the vendor for acceptance of
bank cards or credit cards and the county is authorized to pay any service
charges associated with the use of bank cards or credit cards.
   (C)   If a charge for the use of the bank card or credit card is assessed to
the department, then that department shall collect a sum equal to the amount of
the charge from the person who uses a bank card or credit card.
(CC Res. 2009-17, passed 11-9-2009)
§ 30.010 BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BROADBAND SERVICES. Includes services, including voice, video, and data
that provides capacity for transmission of more than 384 kilobits per second in
at least one direction regardless of the technology or medium used, including
wireless, copper wire, fiber optic cable or coaxial cable. If voice
transmission capacity is offered in conjunction with other services using
transmission of more than 384 kilobits per second, the voice transmission
capacity may be less than 384 kilobits per second.
      PERMIT. Any local, state, or federal agency permit, license, certificate,
approval, registration, or similar form of approval required by statute,
administrative rule, regulation, ordinance or resolution with respect to a
project.
      PROJECT. The construction or deployment of wireline or wireless
communications facilities to provide communication services (as defined in I.C.
8-1-32.5-3) in a unit.
   (B)   Procedures required for broadband ready communications.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-28-28.5-7 Owen County, Indiana wishes to be
certified as a broadband ready community and hereby establishes a procedure to
review applications and issue permits for projects. In compliance with I.C. 5-
28-28.5-7(a) this procedure must contain the following components:
         (a)   A single point of contact for all matters related to a project;
         (b)   A guarantee that all applications related to a project will be
reviewed and either approved or rejected within ten business days after an
application is submitted;
         (c)   An assurance that all inspections, including necessary
approvals, related to a project will occur in a timely and expeditious manner;
and
         (d)   An authorization for all forms, applications and documentation
related to a project to be filed and signed by electronic means.
   (C)   Prohibited procedures.
      (1)   The Owen County Board of Commissioners shall adopt the required
processes and procedures to implement the provisions of division (B). A
procedure established under division (B) may not do the following:
         (a)   Require an applicant to designate a final contractor to complete
a project;
         (b)   Impose a fee to review an application or issue a permit for a
project;
         (c)   Impose a seasonal moratorium on the issuance of permits for a
project; or
         (d)   Discriminate among communications service providers or utilities
with respect to any action described in this section or otherwise related to a
project, including granting access to public right-of-way, infrastructure and
poles, river, and bridge crossings, and any other physical assets owned or
controlled by the unit.
(Ord. 2020-0048, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 30.011 DISHONORED CHECKS/ELECTRONIC PAYMENTS.
   (A)   This section applies to any check/electronic payment received by the
Treasurer for the payment of real or personal property taxes, special
assessments and liens and which is dishonored for payment for any reason.
   (B)   Upon receiving notice that a check/electronic payment has been
dishonored, the Treasurer shall send written notice to the maker of the check
or electronic payment.
   (C)   Any person who presents a check/electronic payment for property taxes
which is dishonored by the presenting bank or financial institution shall
redeem the check by paying to the Treasurer the amount of the check and an
insufficient funds fee in the amount of $23. Additionally, a dishonored
electronic payment is subject to fees for research and processing and a flat
media fee imposed by financial institutions.
   (D)   In the event the funds necessary to redeem the check/electronic
payment are not paid by the due date of the tax payment as described in I.C. 6-
1.1-37-10(F) and (G), the Treasurer shall assess a late payment penalty
pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-37-10.
   (E)   Any person who presents a check/electronic payment to the Treasurer
for a payment of property taxes which is dishonored by a bank or financial
institution is subject to all liabilities enumerated in I.C. 26-2-7 et seq.
(BC Ord. 2021-32, passed 11-1-2021)
APPROVAL AND PRE-APPROVAL OF CLAIMS AND ALLOWANCES
§ 30.020 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   Sections
30.020 through
30.022 are entitled the “Owen County Claims Procedure Ordinance”. The purpose
of §§
30.020 through
30.022 is to authorize a procedure for the approval of financial claims against
the county that are in the nature of bills and vouchers.
(BC Ord. 2014-00011, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 30.021 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county have the specific authority under
I.C. 36-2-2 et seq., 36-2-6 et seq. and 36-1-3-4.
(BC Ord. 2014-00011, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 30.022 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Acceptable forms of claim and vouchers.
         (a)   The following claim and voucher forms have been prescribed for
use in county offices and departments and, unless an alternate form has been
approved, shall be used:
Form No.  Form Title
Form No.              Form Title
Co. 17    (Rev. 1953) Accounts Payable Voucher
Co. 17BR  (1995)      Indiana Certificate for Refund of Excise Tax
Co. 17T   (Rev. 1992) Claim-Refund of Taxes
Co. 7     (Rev. 1955) Claim for Burial of Soldiers
Co. PR-7  (Rev. 1953) Poor Relief Claim
Co. PR-7M (Rev. 1953) Mileage Claim-Poor Relief Investigator
*None                 Change of Venue Claim
*None                 Precinct Election Board Claim
Gen. 99   (Rev. 1993) Claim Payroll Schedule and Voucher
Hwy. 2    (Rev. 1993) County Highway Payroll Schedule
Gen. 99P  (Rev. 1995) Publishers Claim
Gen. 101  (1955)      Mileage Claim
Co. 17 HD (1972)      County Highway Department Claim (reimbursement for
                      construction and reconstruction costs)
Co. 76    (Rev. 1953) Sheriffs Claim for Boarding Prisoners
GH 15     (Rev. 1950) Schedule of Claims-County Hospital (Used where County
                      Auditor serves as disbursing officer)
*These are approved forms prescribed by law or by another state agency.
 
         (b)   All of the above listed forms, by their titles, are self-
explanatory as to their uses. Form 17 is required to be used for the payment of
all claims against the county, except expenses for which a special claim form
has been prescribed or where disbursements are authorized to be made on the
basis of other supporting documents discussed in this section.
      (2)   Itemization and verification. A claim or voucher must be properly
itemized, must show the kind of service, where performed, dates service
rendered, by whom rendered, rate per day, number of hours, rate per hour, price
per foot, per yard, per hundred, per pound, per ton and the like. A fully
itemized invoice permanently attached to the prescribed claim form is
sufficient.
      (3)   Audit of claims and vouchers.
         (a)   It is the duty of the County Auditor to audit all claims and
vouchers prior to their allowance and payment. With that said, the following
minimum audit steps shall be observed:
            1.   Determine the claim or voucher is properly itemized and
verified and, where required, that it is properly supported by freight bills,
delivery tickets or other supporting documents acknowledging delivery of the
goods or services;
            2.   If for personal services, determine that salaries or rates of
wages are in strict accordance with those fixed by the County Council or by the
board or officer having jurisdiction;
            3.   Determine that prices charged are in accordance with contracts
awarded, where applicable, and that statutory authority exists for payment of
the claim or voucher;
            4.   Verify the correctness of the extension on each item, where
based on quantity and unit price, and add the detail items to see that the
total is correct;
            5.   Be sure the claim or voucher has been approved by the officer
or department head receiving the goods or services, and allowed by the Board of
County Commissioners, the court or such other board or officer authorized by
law to allow the claim or voucher; and
            6.   Determine that sufficient funds and appropriations are
available from which to make payment; and that that the claim or voucher has
not been previously paid.
         (b)   The foregoing audit procedures shall be observed to ensure that
all claims or vouchers are paid in good faith and thereby minimize the possible
liability for payment of a wrongful or unlawful claim or voucher.
      (4)   Auditor’s certification. It is the duty of the County Auditor after
auditing each claim or voucher to certify to the correctness of the claim or
voucher in the space provided thereon before such claim or voucher is submitted
to the Board of County Commissioners for its consideration or, in the case of
other claims or vouchers, before such claims or vouchers are paid.
      (5)   Approval of claims. Each claim or voucher must be approved by the
officer or department head receiving the merchandise or services in the space
provided on the claim or voucher.
      (6)   Commissioners’ claims and allowances.
         (a)   Filing claims.
            1.   All claims or vouchers against the county, unless otherwise
expressly provided by law, are required to be filed with the County Auditor for
consideration by the Board of County Commissioners. Claims or vouchers must be
filed at least five days before the session of the Board when such claims or
vouchers are to be considered. If a claim or voucher is properly certified and
timely filed, the County Auditor is without authority to withhold the claim or
voucher from the Board’s consideration, even though the claim or voucher may
appear to be improper or incorrect, or for some other reason cannot be paid.
            2.   At the close of each filing period, after the reverse side of
each claim or voucher has been completed to show the fund name and
appropriation and expenditure accounts to be charged, the claims and vouchers
should be arranged in the same order as the funds, and appropriation accounts
are listed in the funds ledger, and should be so entered in the register of
claims or accounts payable voucher to facilitate processing, payment and
posting to ledgers.
         (b)   Register of claims prior to submission to the Board of County
Commissioners.
            1.   All claims or vouchers must be entered in claim number order
in the Accounts Payable Register, General Form No. 364 (1996). This is a
looseleaf form and contains columns to show the date each claim or voucher was
filed, the claim or voucher number, the name of the claimant, the office,
department or fund, the amount of the claim or voucher, the amount allowed and
the warrant number.
            2.   If a claim or voucher is not allowed by the Board of
Commissioners, the word “Disallowed” shall be inserted in the column headed
“Amount Allowed”; if a claim or voucher is continued for later consideration by
the Board, the word “Continued” shall be inserted in that column. When a claim
or voucher is continued, it shall be reentered on the accounts payable register
for the next meeting of the Board under the original assigned claim or voucher
number.
            3.   The Board of County Commissioners is permitted to sign the
“Allowance of Claims” or “Accounts Payable Register” in lieu of signing each
individual claim or voucher.
         (c)   Publication of claims prior to allowance. It shall be the duty
of every County Auditor to publish all claims or vouchers filed for
consideration of the Board of County Commissioners at least three days prior to
the meeting date when the claims or vouchers are to be considered and acted
upon by the Board.
         (d)   Allowance of claims.
            1.   No claim or voucher shall be allowed by the Board of County
Commissioners unless such claim or voucher has been duly itemized.
            2.   The Board of County Commissioners shall examine the merits of
all claims or vouchers so presented and may, in its discretion, allow such
claim or voucher, in whole or in part, as it may find to be valid. It is
unlawful for any board of commissioners of any county or for any member thereof
to make an allowance or to allow any claim or voucher against the county, or
order the issuance of any county warrant for the payment of any sum of money,
except at a regular or special session of the Board. Each claim or voucher must
show the date and amount allowed. If a claim or voucher is disallowed in whole
or in part, this should be clearly shown on the claim or voucher and on the
docket or register.
      (7)   Court allowances.
         (a)   Generally.
            1.   The Judge of each circuit, superior, probate, juvenile,
criminal and county court is empowered to allow claims or vouchers of the
court, including offices, departments and, institutions under jurisdiction of
the court, such as court administrator, probation department and juvenile
detention center.
            2.   Claims or vouchers should be filed on the applicable
prescribed claim or voucher forms and should be itemized and verified in the
same manner, as other claims or vouchers against the county. The court’s
allowance should appear on the face of each claim or voucher in the space
normally used by the Board of County Commissioners in allowing claims or
vouchers.
            3.   Claims or vouchers of the court are not subject to allowance
by the Board of County Commissioners.
         (b)   Publications of claims prior to issuance of warrant. It shall be
the duty of every County Auditor to publish all allowances made by the Judge of
any of the courts of the county at least three days before the issuance of
warrants in payment of such allowances. The provisions of I.C. 36-2-6-3 do not
apply to claims or vouchers for statutory salaries, per diem of jurors and
salaries of officers of the courts.
         (c)   Publication of court allowances. lt shall be the duty of every
County Auditor to publish all allowances made by a circuit or superior court
within 60 days after the allowances are made.
      (8)   Welfare claims and schedules of allowances. Schedules of awards,
grants and public assistance approved by the County Welfare Director are paid
upon the basis of allowance schedules filed by the Welfare Department and are
not to be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners for allowance or
published prior to or after allowance.
      (9)   County agricultural extension office claims. All claims or vouchers
covering salaries and expenses of the county agricultural extension office
shall be submitted to Purdue University for approval. These claims or vouchers
should not be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners for allowance nor
advertised prior to or after payment.
      (10)   Claims for examination of records. Claims or vouchers for the
expense of examination of records by the State Board of Accounts are certified
by the State Examiner to the Auditor of each county periodically throughout the
year. The claim or voucher covers the number of days actually served by field
examiners in examining the records of each taxing unit in the county at the
rate per day set by I.C. 5-11-4-3. The provisions of this statute require that
immediately, upon receipt of the certified statement, the County Auditor shall
issue a warrant on the County Treasurer payable to the Treasurer of State out
of the General Fund of the county for the amount stated in the certificate. The
expense paid for all units, except county offices, is to be deducted from the
next semi-annual tax settlement to each of such units and reimbursed to the
County General Fund.
      (11)   Change of venue claims.
         (a)   In all cases where a change of venue is taken from one county to
another, the county in which the cause originated shall pay all expenses
incurred by the county to which the case was venued. The change of venue claim
or voucher shall be prepared by the Clerk of the circuit court in duplicate and
must be signed by the Judge and the Clerk and issued under the seal of the
court.
         (b)   The chargeable items of expense to be audited and allowed by the
court are set out in I.C. 34-35-5-2.
         (c)   Upon receipt of a change of venue claim or voucher from another
county, the County Auditor shall check with the Clerk of the circuit court to
ensure that the claim or voucher is properly payable by the county, that the
chargeable items of expense are correct, and shall present the claim or voucher
to the Board of County Commissioners for allowance.
         (d)   The Auditor’s “Venue Record”, County Form No. 56 (Rev. 1953)
shall be used to record change of venue claims or vouchers received, or payable
by other counties. A separate sheet should be kept in this record for each
county.
         (e)   When a claim or voucher against another county is received from
the Clerk of the circuit court, it shall be entered in the venue record, one
copy of the claim or voucher mailed to the Auditor of the county from which
payment is due, and one copy filed in the County Auditor’s office.
         (f)   Upon receipt of payment from another county, the amount received
shall be receipted, into the County General Fund by quietus, and the date,
quietus number and amount received shall be entered in the venue record. The
Auditor shall also enter or cause this information to be entered in the change
of venue record in the office of the Clerk of the circuit court. If a claim or
voucher is not paid within a reasonable time after if is mailed to another
county, the County Auditor should follow-up the nonpayment by contacting the
Auditor of such county.
      (12)   Bonds and indebtedness.
         (a)   The payment of bonds and interest coupons is governed by terms
of the bond ordinance and no further allowance or authority is required to pay
such indebtedness. The same is true of notes or other indebtedness.
         (b)   If the bond ordinance provides for payment of bonds and coupons
at the office of the County Auditor or County Treasurer, a warrant should be
drawn on the appropriate bond or sinking fund in an amount equal to the face
value of the bonds and coupons presented for payment.
         (c)   If the bond ordinance provides for payment of bonds and coupons
at a certain bank as “Paying Agent”, payment should be made to the bank, on or
immediately prior to each due date, as specified in the ordinance for the total
amount of bonds and coupons due and payable on such due date, plus the paying
agent’s fees, if any. The paying agent should render a statement of such
account and turn over paid bonds and coupons periodically, preferably at the
end of each month.
         (d)   The County Auditor is required to keep a record of bonds and
coupons paid in the prescribed Bond Register, Form No. 53. The Bond Register
should at all times show the unpaid bonds and coupons. In the case of a paying
agent, the balance on the statement furnished by the paying agent should equal
the matured bonds and coupons not yet surrendered and paid by the paying agent.
         (e)   The statements and all bonds and coupons (properly canceled or
stamped to show payment) must be carefully preserved. The bonds and coupons
represented by each warrant should be filed in a separate jacket (or envelope)
and the date, warrant number and amount paid shown on the jacket. If bonds and
coupons are paid by a paying agent, they should be filed with the statement of
the paying agent’s account in a separate jacket and the date of the statement
shown on the jacket.
         (f)   Within a reasonable time after the due date of the last maturing
bond any balance in a paying agent’s account resulting from bonds or coupons
not presented for payment should be returned by the paying agent to the county.
The balance should then be receipted into the appropriate bond or sinking fund
and held for payment of the outstanding bonds and coupons.
         (g)   If the bond ordinance specifically provides for payment of bonds
and coupons at the office of the County Auditor, there is no authority for a
bank to act as paying agent.
      (13)   Funds due the state.
         (a)   All warrants in payment of funds due the state should be made
payable to the Treasurer of State, unless specifically instructed by the
applicable state agency. The warrants should, however, be mailed to the state
agency to ensure proper credit.
         (b)   The statutes provide for reports to be prepared to accompany
remittances for such items as surplus dog tax, gross income tax on real estate,
inheritance tax, unclaimed warrants, fines and forfeitures and common school
fund interest. Family violence and victim assistance fees and infraction
judgment fees will be remitted in this manner beginning in June, 1988. The
Clerk of the circuit court will remit the state’s portion of court costs
directly to the Auditor of state semi-annually. No further authority, or
allowance by the Board of County Commissioners, is required to pay such funds
to the state.
         (c)   When a certified statement is received from a state agency for
funds due the state for services, materials, equipment or contractual
obligations, the claim or voucher should be submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners or other board having jurisdiction over the allowance of the
claim or voucher. If the certified statement is not submitted on a prescribed
claim or voucher form, it should be attached to Accounts Payable Voucher Claim
Form No. 17 to be filed and processed in the same manner as other claims or
vouchers. An exception to this requirement is the statement received from the
State Board of Accounts for examination of records, which I.C. 5-11-4-
3 provides shall be paid “immediately upon receipt of such certified
statement”.
      (14)   Distributions to governmental units. The County Auditor is
authorized to make distributions of funds due the state and local governmental
units within the county without allowance or approval of the Board of County
Commissioners. Distributions of property taxes, bank, building and loan taxes,
license excise taxes and any other distribution which includes two or more
funds or sources shall be accompanied by a Certificate of Tax Distribution,
Form No. 22 (Rev. 1985). If a distribution, (other than property tax
settlement) includes only one fund or source and the fund or source is shown on
the warrant, it is not necessary to furnish a certificate of tax distribution.
      (15)   Tax redemption sale.
         (a)   Any person may redeem the tract or real property sold under I.C.
6-1.1-24 at any time before the expiration of the period of redemption.
(I.C. 6-1.1-25-1)
         (b)   When real property is redeemed and the certificate of sale is
surrendered to the County Auditor, the Auditor shall issue a warrant to the
purchaser or purchaser’s assignee surrendering the certificate in an amount
equal to the amount received by the County Treasurer for redemption.
(I.C. 6-1.1-25-3)
      (16)   Surplus Tax Fund. The portion of a tax or special assessment
payment which exceeds the amount actually due shall be receipted into a special
fund to be known as the Surplus Tax Fund. Amounts receipted into this Fund
shall first be applied to the taxpayer’s delinquent taxes in the manner
provided in I.C. 6-1.1-23-5(b); the taxpayer may then file a verified claim for
money remaining in the Surplus Tax Fund. The County Treasurer or County Auditor
shall require reasonable proof of payment by the person making the claim. If
the claim is approved by the County Auditor and the County Treasurer, the
County Auditor shall issue a warrant to the taxpayer for the amount due the
taxpayer (I.C. 6-1.1-26-6). No allowance by the Board of County Commissioners
is required.
      (17)   Remittance of payroll deductions.
         (a)   To properly account for the remittance of payroll deductions, it
is recommended that each electronic transfer be supported by an Accounts
Payable Voucher Form No. 17; that there be firmly attached thereto remittance
reports and other documents supporting the electronic transfer; and that the
claim or voucher be filed in an orderly manner for reference and audit
purposes.
         (b)   If the remittance is for tax or other funds payable to an agency
of the state or the federal government, such as federal withholding tax, Social
Security (FICA tax), state withholding tax, county adjusted gross income tax
and employees’ contributions to Public Employees’ Retirement Fund, the claim or
voucher need not be signed by the agency to which the payment is made nor
allowed by the Board of County Commissioners prior to payment. The same is true
with respect to assignments of wages for other purposes, such as insurance
programs, United Fund contributions, purchase of government bonds, membership
dues and the like, if fully paid by employees. Except for Social Security,
however, if county funds are to be disbursed in support of an employee’s
benefit program, such as group insurance, the claim or voucher should be
submitted to the Board of County Commissioners for allowance. A claim or
voucher should also be submitted to the Board for the county’s portion of
contributions payable to Public Employees’ Retirement Fund.
      (18)   Other warrants.
         (a)   In addition to the foregoing, the County Auditor is authorized
to issue other warrants for such items as a loan from one fund for the benefit
of another fund, transfer of money between funds for the correction of errors,
congressional school fund and cemetery fund loans (see Chapter XI) and
investment of county funds, which are supported by law or by ordinance or
resolution of the County Council or Board of County Commissioners.
         (b)   Care should be taken, however, before any county warrant is
issued to see that such warrant is property supported by a duly allowed claim
or voucher and in instances where a claim or voucher is not required that it is
supported by statutory authority as outlined in this subchapter.
      (19)   Filing and preservation of claims and other documents.
         (a)   It is imperative that all claims or vouchers and other documents
supporting warrants issued be filed in an orderly manner and carefully
preserved.
         (b)   All claims or vouchers allowed by the Board of County
Commissioners should be filed together in either claim or voucher number or
warrant number order. Separate files should also be maintained for claims or
vouchers and allowances of courts, Welfare Department, County Aviation
Department, County Park and Recreation Department, county agricultural
extension office and any other offices and departments whose claims or vouchers
are not allowed by the Board of County Commissioners.
         (c)   Original claims or vouchers, together with original supporting
invoices, delivery tickets and other documents should be permanently retained
in the County Auditor’s office. Do not permit any claim or voucher or
supporting document to be removed from the files. If a copy of any claim or
voucher is requested, either a duplicate or a photocopy should be furnished.
         (d)   Separate files should also be maintained for ready reference for
such items as reports and remittances to agencies of the state and the federal
government, as well as warrants issued for other purposes.
      (20)   Claims payable in advance of Board allowance. Pursuant to I.C. 36-
2-6-4.5(b)(1) through (12) the County Auditor may make claim payments in
advance of the Board of Commissioners’ approval for the following expenses:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
         (b)   License or permit fees;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
         (e)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited
and the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount
advanced;
         (f)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (g)   Maintenance or service agreements;
         (h)   Leases or rental agreements;
         (i)   Bond or coupon payments;
         (j)   Payroll;
         (k)   State or federal taxes; and
         (l)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(c), each payment of expenses under this
section must be supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification
by the County Auditor.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(d), the Board of Commissioners shall
review and allow the claim at its next regular or special meeting following the
preapproved payment of the expense.
(BC Ord. 2014-00011, passed 11-3-2014; BC Ord. 2021-015, passed 8-2-2021)
§ 30.023 SPECIFIC PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(b)(13) the County Auditor may make claim
payments in advance of the Board of Commissioners approval for the following
expenses:
      (1)   Duke Energy;
      (2)   Community Natural Gas;
      (3)   Town of Spencer Sewer;
      (4)   BBPWater;
      (5)   Comcast;
      (6)   Endeavor Communications;
      (7)   Frontier;
      (8)   Smithville Telephone;
      (9)   South Central Indiana REMC;
      (10)   Verizon Wireless;
      (11)   AT&T;
      (12)   AT&T Mobility;
      (13)   SCI Service LLC (Transworld Network);
      (14)   Hughes Net;
      (15)   Toshiba;
      (16)   VISA;
      (17)   Gordan Flesch; and
      (18)   MyIT Indy.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(c), each payment of expenses under this
section must be supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification
by the County Auditor.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(d), the Board of Commissioners shall
review and allow the claim at its next regular or special meeting following the
preapproved payment of the expense.
(BC Ord. 2020-0016, passed 2-3-2020 ; BC Ord. 2021-015, passed 8-2-2021)
POLICY AND PROCEDURE FOR REVIEWING AND PAYING CLAIMS
§ 30.030 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-2, a person who has a claim against the county shall
file an invoice or bill with the County Auditor. The Auditor shall present the
invoice or bill to the executive. The Board of Commissioners specifically
request a duplicate of each bill or invoice for each claim to be presented to
the county executive, which shall examine the merits of the claim. The
executive may allow any part of the claim that it finds valid.
(Res. 2020-0021, passed 2-1-2020; Res. 2021-03, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 30.031 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4, the county executive may allow a claim or
order the issuance of a county warrant for payment of a claim only at a regular
or special meeting of the executive. The county executive may allow a claim if
it complies with I.C. 5-11-10-1.6 and is placed on the claim docket by the
Auditor at least five days before the meeting at which the executive is to
consider the claim.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4(d), a county auditor or member of a county
executive who violates this section commits a Class C infraction.
(Res. 2020-0021, passed 2-1-2020; Res. 2021-03, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 30.032 DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED FOR SUPPORT OF CLAIM BASED ON DELIVERY OF
SUPPLIES TO THE COUNTY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-5, a county officer authorized to
receive supplies contracted for by the county shall review the bill or invoice
for the supplies item by item and certify in writing on the invoice or bill:
         (a)   The fact that the supplies listed on the invoice or bill have
been delivered to him in compliance with the contract; or
         (b)   The facts showing a breach of contract.
      (2)   If the officer or employee discovers a breach of contract on
receipt of the supplies, he shall deduct a just amount from the invoice or
bill. The officer shall immediately file his certificate and the bill or
invoice with the county auditor.
   (B)   The county executive may approve a claim on contract for supplies only
if:
      (1)   It finds the claimant has complied with the contract; and
      (2)   The county auditor certifies in writing that the invoice or bill
for the supplies corresponds with the contract as to quality and prices.
      (3)   The executive may not use a county auditor’s certificate as the
sole basis for this finding.
   (C)   The county executive may make an allowance for printed blanks or
stationary for a county officer only if they are used for the benefit of the
county.
(Res. 2020-0021, passed 2-1-2020; Res. 2021-03, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 30.033 DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED FOR SUPPORT OF CLAIMS FOR SERVICES PERFORMED
FOR COUNTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-6, the county executive may allow a contract
claim for work that was to be conducted under the supervision of the county
surveyor, or an architect, engineer, superintendent, or inspector appointed by
the executive, only if that supervisor certifies in writing on the claim that
the work listed in the claim has been performed according to the contract and
that the claim is due and owing under the contract. The supervisor’s
certificate must be filed with the claim.
   (B)   A county executive may not allow a claim on contract covered by this
section solely on the basis of the supervisor’s certificate.
(Res. 2020-0021, passed 2-1-2020; Res. 2021-03, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 30.034 FISCAL REPORT.
   Prior to approving the claims, the Board of Commissioners request the
Auditor of Owen County to present a brief fiscal health of the county. The
Board of Commissioners specifically request notification of any payment of a
claim which would result in the respective fund or line item going into the
“red.” Additionally, the Board of Commissioners request notification of any
payment of a claim which would result in diminishing the cash reserves of Owen
County.
(Res. 2021-03, passed 1-4-2021)
PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT
§ 30.035 PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT.
   (A)   Scope. This investment policy applies to all transactions involving
the financial assets and related activity of all of the funds of Owen County
(the “county”) as defined below. The following funds are accounted for in the
county’s annual financial report as reported by the State Board of Accounts:
      (1)   General Fund;
      (2)   Highway Fund;
      (3)   EMS Fund;
      (4)   Welfare Fund;
      (5)   Health;
      (6)   School Fund;
      (7)   Reassessment Fund;
      (8)   Capital Project Fund;
      (9)   Special Assessment Fund;
      (10)   Cumulative Bridge Fund;
      (11)   Election and Registration; and
      (12)   Poor Relief.
      (13)   Any new funds created by the county, unless specifically exempted
by the county.
   (B)   Objectives and general philosophy.
      (1)   It is the highest policy of the county to invest the public funds
in a manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the various funds and
conforming to all statutes and other laws governing the investment of public
funds at the county level.
      (2)   The primary objectives, in priority order, of the County
Treasurer’s investment activities shall be:
         (a)   Safety. The safety of principal is the paramount objective of
the investment program. Investment decisions shall ensure the preservation of
capital in the portfolio.
         (b)   Liquidity. The portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to
enable it to meet all cash flow and other operational, requirements, which are
reasonably anticipated.
         (c)   Return. The investment strategy shall include the attainment of
the highest rate of return through fiscal and economic cycles, within the
boundaries of statutory constraints, cash-flow requirements and the primary
objectives of safety and liquidity.
         (d)   Investment standard. Investments shall be made with the
judgement and care, under the circumstances then prevailing, which person of
reasonable caution, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of
their own affairs.
         (e)   Authority to invest. The Treasurer designates, in writing on
file, which staff personnel possess the authority to invest county funds.
      (3)   Request for Proposal (RFP) will be utilized at the discretion of
the Treasurer to document daily banking and investment proposals to include but
not limited to, cost, services, rates and actions.
      (4)   Funds of the county will be invested in accordance with the I.C. 5-
13-8 and 5-13-9, these policies as approved by the County Commissioners.
      (5)   Funds receiving interest, which is compounded back into each fund.
         (a)   County Revenue;
         (b)   Highway;
         (c)   Local Health Maintenance;
         (d)   E911; and
         (e)   Reassessment.
(CC Ord. 2017-03, passed 2-13-2017; Res. 2021-08, passed 1-19-2021)
GRANT APPLICATION REVIEW
§ 30.050 BEFORE GRANT APPLICATION.
   These steps are required before application in addition to the required
grant paperwork.
   (A)   Before grant application.
      (1)   The county grant application must be completed and signed by the
office holder or department head.
      (2)   An application submitted by an organization or individual(s) other
than a county department must be completed and signed by the appropriate person
(s) in charge.
      (3)   The application as well as the official grant request must be
delivered to the Auditor to be placed on the County Commissioners and County
Council agenda.
      (4)   If the grant requires a “budget”, it must also be presented along
with the request application.
      (5)   The grant application will be considered by the Commissioners and
Council.
      (6)   The Commissioners and/or Council may approve or deny the
application.
   (B)   Address. The official grant application must show County Auditor’s
Office, 60 S. Main Street/Courthouse, Spencer, IN 47460 as the address for
notices and payments.
(BC Res. 2005-3, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 30.051 AFTER GRANT APPLICATION.
   (A)   If the grant is awarded to the county and/or applicant, a copy of the
award letter and all other paperwork received must be provided to the Auditor’s
office.
   (B)   Any communication, correspondence or changes made between the
applicant and grantor will be provided to the Auditor’s office. There will be
no exceptions to this requirement.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the county department or applicant to
comply with the grantor’s reporting requirements. Final reports will be given
to the Auditor.
(BC Res. 2005-3, passed 3-7-2005)
RESTRICTING HOME ADDRESSES ON COUNTY’S PROPERTY WEBSITE
§ 30.065 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COOPERATIVE AGENCY. An agency such as a police department, prosecutor’s
office and the like that will agree to compile and keep lists of covered
individuals up to date and accurate.
      EMPLOYEE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CHILD SERVICES. An individual who is or was
employed as any of the following by the Department of Child Services
established by I.C. 31-25-1-1:
         (a)   A family case manager trainee;
         (b)   A family case manager;
         (c)   A family case manager supervisor;
         (d)   A local director;
         (e)   A regional manager;
         (f)   A child service assistant; or
         (g)   A child services attorney.
(I.C. 36-1-8.5-25)
      JUDGE. An individual who holds or formerly held office as:
         (a)   A judge of the supreme court, court of appeals, tax court,
circuit court, superior court, municipal court, county court, federal court,
probate court, or small claims court; or
         (b)   A magistrate, commissioner, or juvenile referee of a court.
(I.C. 36-1-8.5-3)
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An individual who is employed or was formerly
employed as:
(I.C. 36-1-8.5-4)
         (a)   A police officer (including correctional police officer),
sheriff, constable, marshal, prosecuting attorney, special prosecuting
attorney, special deputy, prosecuting attorney, the securities commissioner, or
inspector general.
         (b)   A deputy of any of the persons specified in division (a) above.
         (c)   An investigation for a prosecuting attorney or for the inspector
general.
         (d)   A conservation officer.
         (e)   An enforcement officer of the Alcohol and Tobacco Commission.
         (f)   An enforcement officer of the securities division of the office
of the Secretary of State.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. An individual who holds or formerly held office at any
time during the preceding four years in the executive or legislative branch of
the state or federal government or a political subdivision of the state or
federal government.
(I.C. 36-1-8.5-4.5)
      PUBLIC PROPERTY DATABASE WEBSITE. Means an internet website that:
         (a)   Is available to the general public over the internet;
         (b)   Does not require registration, subscription, or the creation of
a username and password to search the website; and
         (c)   Connects a covered person’s home address to the covered person’s
name, so that a search of the website for the covered person’s name discloses
the covered person’s home address.
(I.C. 36-1-8.5-5)
      VICTIM OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE. A victim of domestic violence who is
certified as a program participant in the address confidentiality program
established by the Attorney General under I.C. 5-26.5-2.
(BC Ord. 2018-005, passed - -2017; Ord. 2020-0042, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 30.066 PROCESS.
   (A)   The duty to prevent disclosure of an address as it falls under I.C.
36-1-8.5 et seq. rests upon the County Auditor’s office regarding public
property database websites.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8.5-7, the following process to prevent the
public from gaining access to covered person’s address is as follows:
      (1)   Written request pursuant to I.C. 36-l-8-7(a) a covered person who
wants to restrict access to the covered person's home address by means of a
public property database website must submit a state address confidentiality
form to the Owen County Auditor's office.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-l-8-7(a) the written request alternatively may
be submitted on the Address Restriction/Name Change Form obtained from the Owen
County Auditor's office.
      (3)   The written request must include State Key Parcel Number(s) for the
parcel(s) where the home address is located and for additional parcels that
make reference to the home address.
      (4)   A bulk request must be submitted by a cooperative agency (defined
in §
30.065) by providing a digital list of covered names accompanied with the
Address Restriction/Name Change Form.
         (a)   An agency designated administrator shall submit a digital list
of current covered persons including:
            1.   Name as it appears on current deed of record and tax records
(covered person must be listed on the deed.)
            2.   State Key Parcel Number(s) for the parcel(s) where the home
address is located and for additional parcels that make reference to the home
address.
            3.   Home address for the parcel(s) affected including city, state,
and zip code.
            4.   Contact phone number and/or email address.
         (b)   The digital list shall also include those individuals that have
moved from their primary residence and may need to report a change of home
address.
      (5)   Individuals that have moved and want their new home address
restricted must submit a written request to the Owen County Auditor's office.
      (6)   Individuals that have a change of name under I.C. 34-28-2 must
submit a written request to the Owen County Auditor's office.
      (7)   Individuals that want to allow public access to a previously
restricted home address must submit a written request to the Owen County
Auditor's office.
   (C)   Information or verification required for processing the written
request. The following describes what information or verification is required
for a covered person's written request to be processed. The Auditor's office
shall verify that submission is valid and requestor is covered according to
I.C. 36-1-8.5 et. seq.
      (1)   A judge. Provide a signed letter in paper copy stating current or
previous employment status as:
         (a)   A judge of the supreme court, court of appeals, tax court,
circuit court, superior court, municipal court, county court, federal court, or
small claims court; or
         (b)   Magistrate, commissioner, or juvenile referee of a court.
      (2)   Law enforcement officer. Provide a signed letter in paper copy
stating current or previous employment status as:
         (a)   A police officer (including correctional police officer),
sheriff, constable, marshal, prosecuting attorney, special prosecuting
attorney, special deputy prosecuting attorney, the securities commissioner, or
the inspector general;
         (b)   A deputy of any the persons specified in division (A);
         (c)   An investigator for a prosecuting attorney or for the inspector
general;
         (d)   A conservation officer;
         (e)   An enforcement officer of the Alcohol and Tobacco Commission; or
         (f)   An enforcement officer of the securities division of the office
of the Secretary of State.
      (3)   Victim of domestic violence. Provide a paper copy of proof of
program participation of the Attorney General Address Confidentiality Program.
      (4)   Public official. Provide a signed letter in paper copy stating
current or previous service as a public official who holds or formerly held
office at any time during the preceding four years in the executive or
legislative branch of the state or federal government or a political
subdivision of the state or federal government.
      (5)   Surviving spouse of law enforcement who was killed in the line of
duty. The commanding officer shall provide confirmation to the Auditor's
office.
      (6)   Employee of the Department of Child Services. Provide a signed
letter in paper copy stating the individual is or was employed as any of the
following by the Department of Child Services established by I.C. 31-25-1-1:
         (a)   A family case manager trainee;
         (b)   A family case manager;
         (c)   A family case manager supervisor;
         (d)   A local office director;
         (e)   A regional manager;
         (f)   A child services assistant; or
         (g)   A child services attorney.
   (D)   Person or department to receive and process written requests. Written
requests regarding the redaction of a home address on the public property
database website shall be received and processed by the Owen County Auditor's
office. If a written request for redaction of a home address is denied by the
Owen County Auditor's office, the applicant may appeal to the Owen County Board
of Commissioners.
   (E)   Methods used for notifying covered persons. The following methods may
be used as a means to notify covered person of their applicability under I.C.
36-1-8.5.
      (1)   Signs will be posted in various county offices that deal with
property upon permission by the office department head.
      (2)   A copy of Ord. 2020-0042, upon which this subchapter is based, will
be sent to the judges, local law enforcement offices, prosecutor's office,
public officials, and the department of child services.
      (3)   A written notification will be submitted to local law enforcement
offices and courts.
      (4)   A broadcast email may be sent through Owen County's email system
notifying public officials of their eligibility.
   (F)   Fee structure. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8.5-7(d) and I.C. 36-1-8.5-10(b)
Owen County may charge a reasonable fee to a covered person who makes a written
request or requests a name change to title. Owen County opts not to charge a
fee to applicants making a written request for any service under I.C. 36-1-8.5
et seq.
(BC Ord. 2018-005, passed - -2017; Ord. 2020-0042, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 30.067 RESULT OF CHANGES TO ACCESS OF PROPERTY INFORMATION.
   The process of restricting home addresses on the public database website
will have the following consequences.
   (A)   Public property database website. Requests to restrict access to home
addresses affect either one or possibly multiple parcels that may display the
home address. A parcel’s state key parcel identification number (PIN) will be
added to a built-in suppression list managed by 39°North. The act of adding a
parcel’s PIN to the suppression list will redact all the information available
for the affected parcel(s). Performing a search on suppressed PINs will return
no search results nor display the parcel’s location on the map.
   (B)   Internal county property record databases. Property information stored
on internal county databases will still exist and may be made available to the
public per request, unless blocked by state statute.
(BC Ord. 2018-005, passed - -2017; Ord. 2020-0042, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 30.068 IMMUNITY AND LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS.
   It is the intention of the county to comply with the intent of I.C. 36-1-8.5
et seq. to not make property information associated with a home address
accessible by means of removing the link between name and parcel information.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8.5-12, the county may not be held civilly liable for
failure to timely restrict disclosures of an address under I.C. 36-1-8.5 et
seq. unless the unit’s act or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful
or wanton misconduct.
(BC Ord. 2018-005, passed - -2017; Ord. 2020-0042, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 30.069 REVERSAL OF PRIVACY SETTINGS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8.5-9, the County Auditor’s office shall restrict
access to the home address of a covered person until the covered person submits
a written request to the County Auditor’s office to allow public access to the
person’s home address on the public property database website. The County
Auditor’s office shall take reasonable steps to verify the authenticity of the
written request, including requiring the covered person to provide appropriate
identification.
(BC Ord. 2018-005, passed - -2017; Ord. 2020-0042, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 30.070 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8.5-11 a written request, notification of name change,
or any other information submitted to the County Auditor’s office by a covered
person is confidential.
(BC Ord. 2018-005, passed - -2017; Ord. 2020-0042, passed 7-20-2020)
BUILDING AND GROUNDS USE POLICY
§ 30.085 DEPARTMENT BUILDING USE.
   The individual departments of the county are provided office and support
space for their departmental use. In addition, meeting rooms and conference
rooms are provided on a scheduled basis for county functions. When the meeting
rooms and conference rooms are not being used to accommodate county and county
tenant needs, the rooms are made available on a fee basis to other users and
the public. All users are expected to treat the facilities properly. Each
county employee is expected, through his or her department, to watch for
inappropriate behavior or use in the buildings. Problems of behavior or use
should be reported to the County Commissioners. Maintenance problems in the
building should be reported to the custodian or the County Commissioners as
soon as detected.
(BC Res. 2009-08, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 30.086 GENERAL RULES OF CONDUCT FOR USE OF BUILDINGS OR FACILITIES.
   (A)   Proper conduct is required of all participants and guests using county
facilities or grounds.
   (B)   No smoking, drug use or alcohol use is allowed in county buildings or
on county grounds.
   (C)   A user must leave the building and grounds clean, clear of debris and
trash, and in good condition. Trash is to be bagged and removed from the
building and grounds. Clean up and removal of equipment must be completed
immediately following the event.
   (D)   Users may not move or displace displays, furniture or signage.
   (E)   Climbing or walking upon any statue, fixture, building or any
structure not intended for such purpose is prohibited.
   (F)   Displays, signs, flags, banners or decorations may not be attached or
mounted to county facilities without the express written consent of the
Commissioners. Notices or other written material may not be posted in any of
the common areas except on bulletin boards provided for the particular posting.
   (G)   A user may not use a device that provides heat or fire in a county
facility.
(BC Res. 2009-08, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.087 DAMAGES; INSURANCE.
   The user must agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the county, its
agents, officers and employees from all claims and suits, including court costs
and attorney fees, and other expenses caused by any act or omission of the user
and/or his or her subcontractors, if any. Upon request, the user shall provide
the county with a certificate of insurance or other acceptable proof of
financial responsibility for damages that may arise out of the event.
(BC Res. 2009-08, passed 10-5-2009)
CONDITIONS FOR USE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION RECEIVED ON DISK,
TAPE OR ELECTRONIC FORMAT
§ 30.100 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A person who receives information on disk or tape or in any
electronic format under I.C. 5-14-3-3(d) may not use the information for
commercial purposes.
      (2)   Specifically, a person who receives information on disk or tape or
in any electronic format under I.C. 5-14-3-3(d) is prohibited from:
         (a)   Selling that information;
         (b)   Advertising the information;
         (c)   Soliciting the purchase of merchandise, goods or services with
that information; or
         (d)   Selling, loaning, giving away or otherwise delivering the
information obtained by the request to any other person for these purposes.
      (3)   Use of information received under I.C. 5-14-3-3(d) in connection
with the preparation or publication of news, for non-profit activities, or for
academic research is not prohibited.
      (4)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this division
(A) may be prohibited by the County Board of Commissioners from obtaining a
copy of any further data under division (A)(2)(d) above and may be subject to a
fine of up to $2,500.
      (5)   This division (A) does not apply to electronic formatted map data.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners ratifies and confirms all of the
provisions Ord. 2007-20 and Ord. 2016-000-18.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners modifies and amends to said ordinances
the provision that no person, firm or corporation is authorized to access the
County Recorder’s digital bulk records without express written consent, the
completion of a user agreement and submission to the fees and charges set forth
therein.
   (C)   Said ordinances are further modified and amended to include the
provision that any person, firm or corporation who electronically accesses and
electronically prints, stores or transfers data to any of its operating
computer systems, digital storage devices or internet cloud media is subject to
the fine provisions of the existing Ord. 2007-20 and Ord. 2016-000-18.
   (D)   The ongoing expenses incurred by the County Recorder in applying a
watermark and producing the bulk copies result in actual costs that exceed
$0.10 per copy due to actual expenses incurred by the Recorder’s office.
   (E)   Ord. 2007-20 and Ord. 2016-000-18 are further modified and amended to
provide that the Recorder of the county may charge a total fee of $0.20 per
page in deference to the charges specified by I.C. 36-2-7-10.1 in consideration
of actual costs, and subject to all amendments by operation of federal, state
or local law and any binding court orders.
(BC Ord. 2007-20, passed 6-22-2007; BC Ord. 2016-000-18 passed 6-27-2016; BC
Ord. 2018-003, passed 4-16-2018)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Planning Department and Plan Commission
   
31.002   County Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
31.003   Community Services Grants Committee
   
31.004   Capital Projects Board
   
31.005   Convention, Recreation and Visitor’s Commission
   
31.006   Internal Controls Committee
Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
31.020   Establishment
   
31.021   Membership
   
31.022   Organization
   
31.023   Powers, duties and responsibilities
   
31.024   Definition
County Health Department/Board of Health
   
31.035   Establishment
   
31.036    Adopting a mass prophylaxis clinic site
   
31.037   Management
   
31.038   Members of the Board of Health
   
31.039   Choosing of members
   
31.040   Appointment of members
   
31.041   Removal of members
   
31.042   Terms of members
   
31.043   Vacancies
   
31.044   Conditions for membership
   
31.045   Chairperson
   
31.046   Meetings
   
31.047   Health officer
County Public Defender Board
   
31.050   Board established
   
31.051   Definitions
   
31.052   Board membership and appointment
   
31.053   Power and duties of the Board
   
31.054   Authority of Judges
   
31.055   Scope
County Redevelopment Commission
   
31.070   Title
   
31.071   Purpose
   
31.072    Commissioners
   
31.073   Meetings
   
31.074    Conflict of interest
   
31.075   Duties
   
31.076   Powers
   
31.077    Reporting requirements
   
31.078   Jurisdiction
911 Dispatch Center
   
31.090   Advisory Board
   
31.091   Executive Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 PLANNING DEPARTMENT AND PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   There is created effective January 1, 2003, a Planning
Department in the county government under the direct control and supervision of
the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The Building Department and Planning Department shall be combined
for administrative and fiscal purposes and be known and the County Building and
Planning Department.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby reaffirms Ord. 2001-12 and
establishes the Plan Commission as a standing body in county government;
instructs the Plan Commission to make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners regarding adoption of a subdivision control ordinance; and
further instructs the Plan Commission not to include in those recommendations
any restrictions on logging or farming beyond those in federal or state
statutes or regulations.
(BC Ord. 1994-13, passed 11-21-1994; BC Ord. 2001-12, passed 4-30-2001; BC Res.
2002-49, passed 2-7-2002; BC Ord. 2002-66, passed 6-26-2002)
§ 31.002 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17, the County Emergency Management
Advisory Council is created to perform the duties prescribed to it under state
law (I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq.).
   (B)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council shall consist of the
President of the county executive, the President of the county fiscal body, the
Mayor of each city in the county, an individual representing the legislative
bodies of each town in the county, representatives of private or public
agencies or organizations that can assist emergency management considered
appropriate by advisory council, and the commander (or designee) of a local
civil air patrol unit in the county.
   (C)   The position of County Emergency Management and Disaster Director is
created pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2) and given the duties and
responsibilities as prescribed by state law.
   (D)   All definitions and provisions of the Indiana Emergency Management and
Disaster Law, I.C. Title 10, Article 14, Chapter 3, are hereby incorporated by
reference into this section as though set forth in full herein.
(BC Ord. 2004-17, passed 12-8-2004)
§ 31.003 COMMUNITY SERVICES GRANTS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The County Council shall create the Community Services Grants
Committee. This Committee will consist of five persons to create and manage a
grant process, awarding activity, review grant applications and make
recommendations to the County Council for awarding grants. Three members of the
Committee shall be members of the County Council; and two additional members
shall be drawn from the community at large, based on experience or expertise in
community services. A community member cannot serve, or continue to serve, on
this Committee if he or she is affiliated with, or work for any organization
that is or had been awarded a grant.
   (B)   The County Council shall focus on the following areas when considering
grants from its Community Services Fund:
      (1)   Adult and youth education;
      (2)   Emergency shortages;
      (3)   Food and shelter;
      (4)   Health;
      (5)   Public safety;
      (6)   Public service;
      (7)   Transportation; and
      (8)   Veterans.
   (C)   The Community Services Grants Committee shall focus on the following
criteria when reviewing grant applications:
      (1)   Programs must primarily serve county residents;
      (2)   Likelihood of success of the proposal (i.e., will the dollar
amounts sought likely accomplish the professed goal of the proposal?);
      (3)   Partnership or leverage (whether the funds will serve to bring
other partners or funding to the project); and
      (4)   Operational expenses such as travel, conference costs, ongoing
supply or expense costs, maintenance costs and the like shall be given low
priority in award decisions, but shall not be necessarily excluded from
consideration.
   (D)   The County Council shall encourage transparency throughout the
acceptance, review and award of applications. In addition to maintaining hard
copies of all application information, timeline and deadline information,
historical and fiscal information regarding the funding, all such information
shall also be available to the public through the county’s website.
(CC Res. 2011-12, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 31.004 CAPITAL PROJECTS BOARD.
   Ord. 2007-44 is hereby adopted by the County Council to prohibit the Capital
Projects Board from reviewing, revising and reducing the budget, tax rate and
tax levy of each political subdivision located in the county.
(CC Ord. 2007-44, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 31.005 CONVENTION, RECREATION AND VISITOR’S COMMISSION.
   (A)   Beginning June 20, 2011, and until further amended by ordinance, there
is created a five member Recreation and Tourism Development Commission whose
purpose is to promote the development and growth of convention, recreation and
visitor industry in the county.
   (B)   (1)   A simple majority of the members must be:
         (a)   Engaged in a convention, visitor or tourism business; or
         (b)   Involved in or promoting conventions, or visitors, or tourism;
and
         (c)   If available and willing to serve, at least two of the members
must be engaged in the business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging or
accommodations as described in I.C. 6-9-18-3, as amended, and not more than one
member may be affiliated with the same business entity.
      (2)   No more than a simple majority of the members may be affiliated
with the same political party.
      (3)   Members must reside within the county.
   (C)   Members shall be appointed as follows.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall appoint four members
to the Commission.
      (2)   The Spencer Town Board shall appoint one member to the Commission.
   (D)   Terms.
      (1)   All terms of the office of the Commission members begin on January
1.
      (2)   Initial appointments must be for staggered terms, with subsequent
appointments for two- year terms.
      (3)   Each member whose term expires may be reappointed to serve another
term.
      (4)   If an initial appointment is not made by February 1 or a vacancy is
not filled within 30 days, the Commission shall appoint a member by majority
vote.
      (5)   A member may be removed for cause by his or her appointing
authority.
   (E)   Members of the Commission may not receive a salary. However,
Commission members are entitled to reimbursement for necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of their respective duties.
   (F)   Each Commission member, before entering his or her duties, shall take
an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon his or her certificate
of appointment and promptly filed with the Clerk of the circuit court of the
county.
   (G)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 of each year for the purpose
of organization. It shall elect one of its members President, another Vice-
President, another Secretary and another Treasurer. The first officers chosen
shall serve from the date of their election until their successors are elected
and qualified.
   (H)   A majority of the Commission constitutes a quorum, and the concurrence
of a majority of the Commission is necessary to authorize any action.
(BC Ord. 2011-15, passed 6-20-2011; BC Ord. 2015-00011, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 31.006 INTERNAL CONTROLS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Name. The committee shall be named the Internal Controls Committee.
   (B)   Membership. The Internal Controls Committee shall consist of three
members determined by resolution.
   (C)   Compensation. The members of the Internal Controls Committee shall
serve without any additional compensation.
   (D)   Meetings. The Internal Controls Committee shall meet as needed, but
not less often than twice each calendar year. A quorum shall be the majority of
the total members of the Internal Controls Committee and decisions shall be
made by a majority of those members attending any meeting of the Internal
Controls Committee. No voting shall be permitted by proxy.
   (E)   Open door. The Internal Controls Committee meetings shall be public.
The Internal Controls Committee shall keep minutes of each meeting. Minutes of
the Internal Controls Committee shall be made public and in compliance with the
Indiana Open Door Act. A copy of all minutes adopted shall be referred to the
Owen County Auditor and Owen County Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Purpose. The Internal Controls Committee shall review existing
internal controls and recommend new internal controls in alignment with State
Board of Accounts requirements. The Internal Controls Committee shall ensure
compliance with I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) which requires standards and procedures in
the following areas:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (G)   Scope of responsibility. The Internal Controls Committee shall:
      (1)   Have unrestricted access to records, data, and reports;
      (2)   Be entitled to any explanatory information that it deems necessary
to discharge its responsibilities;
      (3)   Establish and communicate requests for information, which will
include the nature, extent, and timing of information;
      (4)   Review each department's arrangements for prevention and deterrence
of fraud;
      (5)   Examine each department to ensure that each entity has appropriate
anti-fraud programs and controls in place to identify potential fraud and
ensure that investigations are undertaken if fraud is detected;
      (6)   Consider the effectiveness of the organization's control framework,
including information technology security and control.
      (7)   Conduct an internal audit, review and provide input on the internal
audit's strategic plan, objectives, performance and outcomes.
      (8)   Upon completion of the above tasks, the Internal Controls Committee
shall report their findings to the Owen County Board of Commissioners and make
recommendations to the Board concerning policy and procedure changes.
(BC Res. 2021-21, passed 7-6-2021)
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 31.020 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board is hereby established.
(BC Ord. 1992-1, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 31.021 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board shall consist of 16
members.
   (B)   The following four members shall serve by virtue of their office or
position:
      (1)   The County Sheriff;
      (2)   The Prosecuting Attorney;
      (3)   The Director of the County Welfare Department; and
      (4)   The Judge of the circuit court.
   (C)   The following four members shall be appointed by the Judge of the
circuit court of the county:
      (1)   One attorney with a substantial criminal defense practice;
      (2)   One probation officer;
      (3)   One mental health professional; and
      (4)   One educational administrator.
   (D)   The following eight members may be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the county:
      (1)   Four lay persons, at least one of whom must be a member of a
minority race, if a member of a minority race is willing to serve;
      (2)   One ex-offender;
      (3)   One victim of an offense prosecuted in the county;
      (4)   One representative of the county fiscal body; and
      (5)   One representative of the largest municipality executive board.
   (E)   The members of the Advisory Board appointed by the Judge shall be
appointed for a term of four years. Thereafter, such appointments shall be made
for terms commencing January 1. Other members shall serve only while holding
the office or position held at the time of appointment. Members may be
reappointed.
   (F)   A vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term of office shall
be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments.
In the event that a successor has not been named to replace, a member upon the
expiration of such member’s term, such member shall continue to serve until a
successor has been duly appointed and qualified.
(BC Ord. 1992-1, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 31.022 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The members of the Advisory Board shall meet within 30 days after the
last initial appointment is made for the purpose of organizing and shall elect
one member as Chairperson and another member as Vice-Chairperson and shall
appoint a Secretary-Treasurer who need not be a member of the Advisory Board.
Thereafter, the Advisory Board shall meet when necessary, but no less than four
times per year for the purpose of conducting its business and carrying out its
duties and responsibilities. The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary-
Treasurer shall continue to serve until a successor shall have been selected.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall adopt such by-laws, rules and regulations and
select such other officers as it may deem necessary to properly conduct its
business. For the purposes of transacting business, a majority of the
membership shall constitute a quorum. A vacancy in the membership shall not
impair the right of quorum to transact business.
   (C)   The members of the Advisory Board shall serve without compensation.
Such members may, however, be reimbursed for approved out-of-pocket expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties.
(BC Ord. 1992-1, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 31.023 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board shall have the following
powers, duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   To formulate a community corrections plan providing for individual
community corrections programs;
   (B)   To make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners and any city,
town or private organization in the county for the establishment and operation
of community corrections programs;
   (C)   To prepare any application for state financial aid for such plan and
programs as required by I.C. 11-12-2-4, as now or hereafter amended, and to
take any action which might be required from time to time under state law to
qualify such plan and programs for state financial aid;
   (D)   To observe the operation of community corrections in the county;
   (E)   To make an annual report to the Board of Commissioners containing an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the community corrections programs, with
particular attention to any program receiving state financial aid;
   (F)   To make recommendations for the improvement, modification or
discontinuance of any community correction program;
   (G)   To make recommendations to community correction programs receiving
state financial aid concerning compliance with the standards adopted by the
State Department of Corrections for such programs;
   (H)   (1)   To recommend to the Board of Commissioners the approval or
disapproval of contracts with units of local government or non-governmental
agencies who desire to participate in the community corrections plan; and
      (2)   Before recommending approval of a contract, the Advisory Board must
determine that a program is capable of meeting the standards adopted by the
State Department of Corrections for programs receiving state financial aid.
   (I)   To maintain an office if approved and designated by the Board of
Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1992-1, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 31.024 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMUNITY CORRECTION PROGRAM. A community-based or community-oriented
program that provides for any of the following:
         (a)   The prevention of crime or delinquency;
         (b)   Services to persons charged with or diverted from charges for a
crime or act of delinquency who are not tried and who voluntarily participate;
         (c)   Services to persons on probation;
         (d)   Services to persons sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail
(other than a state owned or operated facility); and
         (e)   Services to committee offenders, with the approval of the State
Department of Corrections.
   (B)   Community corrections programs may coordinate educational, mental
health, drug or alcohol abuse, and/or counseling.
(BC Ord. 1992-1, passed 2-3-1992)
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT/BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 31.035 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to Owen County Ord. 1991-11, which was adopted on February 3, 1991,
the Owen County Health Department, managed by a seven-member Board of Health as
an integral part of county government and administratively responsible to the
Owen County Board of Commissioners, was established pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2.
(BC Ord. 1991-11, passed 2-3-1991; BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.036 ADOPTING A MASS PROPHYLAXIS CLINIC SITE.
   (A)   This agreement is made and entered into by and between the County
Department of Health and the County Commissioners.
      (1)   I.C. 10-14-3-7 declares it the policy of the state to authorize and
provide coordination of activities relating to disaster prevention,
preparedness, response and recovery.
      (2)   I.C. 10-14-3-11 states the Governor may use the services and
facilities of existing officers, agencies of the state and of political
subdivisions and an officers and agencies of the state and political
subdivisions shall cooperate with and extend services and facilities to the
Governor as the Governor may request.
      (3)   Whereas, the parties recognize the vulnerability of the people and
communities located within the county to damage, injury and loss of life and
property resulting from disasters and for civil emergencies and recognize that
disasters and/or civil emergencies may present equipment, manpower and facility
requirements beyond the capacity of the county.
      (4)   A MASS PROPHYLAXIS CLINIC is a site where prophylaxis is provided
to a large number of citizens within a short time period in response to an
emergency that involves an actual or imminent infectious disease threat.
      (5)   The parties here do mutually desire to reach an understanding that
will result in making the aforesaid facilities of the Owen County Courthouse
located at 60 S. Main Street, Spencer, Indiana. 47460, available to the County
Department of Health for the aforesaid use or a suitable alternate site
location. If any alternative also is designated, the common address shall be
reviewed with all state and local authorities responsible for disaster
preparedness.
   (B)   It is mutually agreed between the parties as follows.
      (1)   The County Commissioners agree that they will permit, to the extent
of its ability and upon the request of the County Department of Health, the use
of its physical facilities and equipment by the County Department of Health
within two hours of the request and for the time period being requested for
mass clinics for disease prevention and control activities.
      (2)   The County Department of Health agrees that it shall exercise
reasonable care in the conduct of its activities in such facilities.
(BC Ord. 2006-18, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 31.037 MANAGEMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-3, the Owen County Board of Health shall manage the
Owen County Health Department.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.038 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-4, the Owen County Board of Health shall be
composed of seven members, not more than four of whom may be from the same
political party.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.039 CHOOSING MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-25, the members of the Owen County Board of Health
shall be chosen as follows:
   (A)   Four persons knowledgeable in public health, at least two of whom are
licensed physicians. The other two appointees may be any of the following:
      (1)   A registered nurse licensed under I.C. 25-23;
      (2)   A registered pharmacist licensed under I.C. 25-26;
      (3)   A dentist licensed under I.C. 25-14;
      (4)   A hospital administrator;
      (5)   A social worker;
      (6)   An attorney with expertise in health matters;
      (7)   A school superintendent;
      (8)   A veterinarian licensed under I.C. 25-38.1;
      (9)   A professional engineer registered under I.C. 25-31; and/or
      (10)   An environmental scientist;
   (B)   Two representatives of the general public; and
   (C)   One representative described in either division (A) or (B) above.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.040 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to state law, the Owen County Board of Commissioners shall appoint
the members of the Owen County Board of Health.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.041 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-8, a member of the Owen County Board of Health may
be removed by the Owen County Board of Commissioners if the board member does
any of the following:
   (A)   Is absent from three consecutive regular board meetings;
   (B)   Is absent from four regular board meetings during a calendar year; and
   (C)   Fails to perform the statutory duties of the office.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.042 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-10, all members of the Owen County Board of Health
shall be appointed for a term of four years.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.043 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-11, members of the Owen County Board of
Health continue to serve until their successors are appointed when a vacancy
occurs, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint a qualified person to serve
the remainder of the unexpired term. The Owen County Board of Health shall
provide to the Board of Commissioners a list of five individuals, at least
three of whom must have professional experience in one of the following areas:
      (1)   Medicine;
      (2)   Nursing;
      (3)   Hospital administration;
      (4)   Pharmacology;
      (5)   Social work;
      (6)   Dentistry;
      (7)   Veterinary medicine;
      (8)   Engineering;
      (9)   Environmental science;
      (10)   Legal profession; or
      (11)   School administration.
   (B)   The list must include at least one licensed physician. The Board of
Commissioners may select an individual from the list when filling a vacancy.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.044 CONDITIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-12, a member of the Owen County Board of Health
must meet the following conditions:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States; and
   (B)   Reside in Owen County.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.045 CHAIRPERSON.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-14, the members shall elect a chairperson at the
first meeting of the Owen County Board of Health each year.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.046 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-15, meetings may be called by any of the
following:
      (1)   The chairperson;
      (2)   Four members of the local health board;
      (3)   The local health officer.
   (B)   A majority of the members constitutes a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 31.047 HEALTH OFFICER.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-16, the Owen County Board of Health shall appoint a
health officer to serve for a term of four years. The health officer must be a
licensed physician.
   (A)   The appointment shall be certified by the county executive and sent to
the State Department.
   (B)   The health officer is eligible for reappointment.
   (C)   The health officer is the executive officer of the Owen County Health
Department and shall serve as secretary of the Owen County Board of Health.
(BC Ord. 2021-06, passed 3-1-2021)
COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD
§ 31.050 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The County Public Defender Board is hereby established for the purpose of
providing legal representation to indigent/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extraction, child support, civil commitments and other
proceedings where the right to counsel has been established by law.
(BC Ord. 1995-16, passed 11-6-1995; BC Ord. 2013-0003, passed 6-3-2013; Ord.
2020-0040, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 31.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Owen County Public Defender Board created by this subchapter.
   INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation
and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
   LEGAL REPRESENTATION. The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/
respondent in a matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
      (1)   A person charged with a crime as described in I.C. 35-41-1-6 which
states “crime” means a felony or a misdemeanor;
      (2)   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2 and I.C. 31-37-
2-1;
      (3)   A violation of a condition of probation as established as a part of
a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
      (4)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   Civil commitment proceedings;
      (6)   Contempt for failure to pay child support; and
      (7)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense has
been established by law.
(BC Ord. 1995-16, passed 11-6-1995; BC Ord. 2013-0003, passed 6-3-2013; Ord.
2020-0040, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 31.052 BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of three members. The Board of Commissioners
shall appoint one member. The judges who exercise felony or juvenile
jurisdiction in the county shall appoint by majority vote one member. The
Indiana Public Defender Commission shall appoint one member who must be a
resident of the county. The appointment by the Indiana Public Defender
Commission shall begin upon the first expiration of a current term of a member
appointed by the judges who exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction in the
county. Prior to July 1, 2019, the judges who exercise felony or juvenile
jurisdiction appointed two members.
   (B)   Each initially appointed member of the Board shall serve a three-year
term beginning with the date of the member’s appointment.
   (C)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until a successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (D)   The members must be persons who have demonstrated an interest in high
quality legal representation for indigent persons. However, a member may not
be:
      (1)   A city, town, or county attorney;
      (2)   A law enforcement officer;
      (3)   A judge;
      (4)   A court employee;
      (5)   An attorney who provides representation to indigent persons in the
county;
      (6)   An employee of the Department of Child Service; or
      (7)   An employee of any individual described in divisions (1) through
(6) above.
   (E)   Board members shall serve without pay but may receive reimbursement
for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if approved by the
Board.
   (F)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be approved
by a majority of the Board members present.
   (G)   Meetings shall be held at least quarterly and may be held at other
times at the call of the:
      (1)   Chairperson; or
      (2)   Other two members.
   (H)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the Board.
(BC Ord. 1995-16, passed 11-6-1995; BC Ord. 2013-0003, passed 6-3-2013; Ord.
2020-0040, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 31.053 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 33-40-7-5, the Board shall prepare a comprehensive
plan for providing legal representation to indigent defendant/respondents in
the county. The comprehensive plan shall, at minimum, provide for:
      (1)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time.
      (2)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorney’s through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible.
      (3)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
   (B)   Establish policies and procedures for the provision of competent legal
representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support, criminal contempt and other
matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan.
   (C)   Establish guidelines with procedures for the determination of
indigency and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-3.
   (D)   Recommend an annual operating budget of the county Public Defender
Department and monitor the expenditures of fund.
   (E)   Appoint a Chief Public Defender for the county, who shall be an
attorney admitted to the practice of law in the State of Indiana, who shall be
authorized to employ or contract with attorneys, investigators, secretaries,
and other persons as necessary and consistent with the comprehensive plan and
the budget approved by the County Council.
   (F)   Submit an annual report to the county executive, the county fiscal
body, and the judges regarding the operation of the county Public Defender’s
office including information relating to caseloads and expenditures.
(BC Ord. 1995-16, passed 11-6-1995; BC Ord. 2013-0003, passed 6-3-2013; Ord.
2020-0040, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 31.054 AUTHORITY OF JUDGES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to abridge the authority of any
Judge of any state court of this county from appointing counsel for any person
entitled thereto under the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the state.
(BC Ord. 1995-16, passed 11-6-1995; BC Ord. 2013-0003, passed 6-3-2013; Ord.
2020-0040, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 31.055 SCOPE.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a right of reimbursement
pursuant to I.C. 33-40-7-11, except to the extent that any claims for
reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-7-11 and the standards of the State Public
Defender’s Commission.
(BC Ord. 1995-16, passed 11-6-1995; BC Ord. 2013-0003, passed 6-3-2013; Ord.
2020-0040, passed 7-6-2020)
COUNTY REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.070 TITLE.
   A redevelopment department is hereby established pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter and I.C. 36-7-14 et seq. and said department shall be
governed by a five-member board to be known as the “Owen County Redevelopment
Commission”.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.071 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to develop plans and manage tools used to
address conditions of blight and underutilized land of economic significance.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.072 COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Qualifications (voting or non-voting).
      (1)   Must be 18 years of age or older; and
      (2)   Must be a resident of the county.
   (B)   Appointment of Commissioners.
      (1)   The County Redevelopment Commission shall consist of five voting
Commissioners that shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   Three Commissioners shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the county; and
         (b)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed by the County Council.
      (2)   The County Redevelopment Commission shall also consist of one non-
voting advisor appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the county. The non-
voting advisor must:
         (a)   Be a member of the school board of a school corporation that
includes all or part of the territory served by the Redevelopment Commission;
         (b)   Not be a commissioner of the Redevelopment Commission for the
purposes of this subchapter but is entitled to attend and participate in the
proceedings of all meetings of the Redevelopment Commission; and
         (c)   Shall serve at the pleasure of the entity that appointed them.
   (C)   Term.
      (1)   Each voting Commissioner shall serve for one year from January 1
after his or her appointment until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified, except that the original Commissioners shall serve from the date of
their appointment until January 1 in the second year after their appointment.
Should a vacancy occur, a successor shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the remainder of
the term.
      (2)   The non-voting advisor shall serve for a term of two years and
until a successor is appointed.
   (D)   Oath. Each Commissioner shall take and subscribe an oath of office in
the usual form, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment,
which shall promptly be filed with the Clerk of the circuit court.
   (E)   Bond.
      (1)   Each Commissioner shall, before beginning his or her duties,
execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved by the Board of
Commissioners of the county, in the penal sum of $15,000.
      (2)   The bond must be conditioned on the faithful performance of the
duties of his or her office and the accounting for all monies and property that
may come into their hands or under their control.
      (3)   The cost of the bond shall be paid by the special taxing district.
   (F)   Salaries, per diem and reimbursement of expenses.
      (1)   A Commissioner who does not otherwise hold a lucrative office for
the purposes of Article 2, § 9 of the Indiana Constitution may receive:
         (a)   A salary;
         (b)   A per diem; or
         (c)   Is entitled to reimbursement for expenses necessarily incurred
in the performance of the Redevelopment Commissioner’s duties.
      (2)   A non-voting advisor is not entitled to a salary, per diem or
reimbursement of expenses.
   (G)   Removal. The Board of Commissioners of the county may remove a
Commissioner from office at any time.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.073 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Election of officers.
      (1)   Not later than 30 days after the appointment of the Commissioners,
the Redevelopment Commission shall hold a meeting for the purposes of
organization. Thereafter, the Commission must hold at least one annual meeting
on January 1, that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday for the election
of a President, a Vice-President and a Secretary.
      (2)   The Redevelopment Commission may also appoint a Treasurer, who need
not be a Commissioner or member of the Redevelopment Commission. The Treasurer
may be compensated. The Treasurer shall be responsible for the administration,
investment and disbursement of all funds and accounts of the Redevelopment
Commission in accordance with the requirements of I.C. 36-7-14 et seq. However,
the Treasurer may not perform any duties of the fiscal officer or any other
officer of the county that are prescribed by I.C. 36-7-14-24 or by any
provisions that pertain to the issuance and sale of bonds, notes or warrants of
the special taxing district.
   (B)   Rules and by-laws. The Redevelopment Commission may adopt the rules
and by-laws it considers necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings,
the carrying out of its duties, and the safeguarding of the money and property
placed in its custody by I.C. 36-7-14 et seq.
   (C)   Meetings
      (1)   At the annual meeting (referenced above) the Commission by
resolution or in accordance with its rules and by-laws, prescribe the date and
manner of notice of other regular or special meetings.
      (2)   All meetings of the Redevelopment Commission shall be held in
accordance with the state’s Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.
   (D)   Quorum. Three of the Redevelopment Commission’s Commissioners
constitute a quorum, and the concurrence of three members is necessary to
authorize any action.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.074 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A Redevelopment Commissioner or a non-voting advisor appointed under this
subchapter or under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-14-6.1 may not have a pecuniary
interest in any contract, employment, purchase or sale made under this
subchapter. However, any property required for redevelopment purposes in which
a Commissioner or non-voting advisor has a pecuniary interest may be acquired,
but only by give or condemnation.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.075 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Redevelopment Commission are governed by the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-14 et seq. and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.076 POWERS.
   The powers of the Redevelopment Commission are governed by the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-14 et seq. and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.077 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the close of the calendar year, the Redevelopment
Commissioners shall file with the Board of Commissioners of the county a report
setting out their activities during the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   The report shall include the following:
      (1)   The names of the then qualified and acting Commissioners, including
any removed from office;
      (2)   The names of the officers;
      (3)   The number of regular employees, if any, and their fixed salaries
and compensation;
      (4)   The amount of expenditures made during the preceding year and their
general purpose;
      (5)   The amount of funds on hand at the close of the calendar year; and
      (6)   Any other information necessary to disclose the activities of the
Commissioners and the results obtained.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
§ 31.078 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all of the territory within
the corporate limits of the county, excepting therefrom the territory within
the corporate boundaries of the Town of Spencer and the Town of Gosport and
shall constitute a taxing district for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes as provided in I.C. 36-7-14 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-3-2012, passed by Council 1-9-2012)
911 DISPATCH CENTER
§ 31.090 ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Name. The Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) for E911 services for
the county shall be named the Owen County 911 Dispatch Center.
   (B)   Membership. The Advisory Board for the County Emergency Communications
911 Center shall consist of five members as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be the County Sheriff or designee;
      (2)   One member shall be the Director of the EMS or designee;
      (3)   One member shall be the Director of the EMA or designee;
      (4)   One member shall be the Fire Chief of the County Fire Association
or designee; and
      (5)   One member shall be the Chief of Police of the Spencer Police
Department or designee.
   (C)   Compensation. The members of the Advisory Board shall serve without
receiving a stipend or any additional compensation for their service on the
Advisory Board.
   (D)   Meetings. The Advisory Board shall meet as needed, but shall not meet
less often than quarterly each calendar year. A quorum shall be a majority of
the total members of the Advisory Board and decisions shall be made by a
majority of those members attending any meeting of the Advisory Board at which
there is a quorum. Any member that chooses to appoint a designee must notify
the Advisory Board in writing of the appointment. No voting shall be permitted
by proxy. The designee shall be a member of the department.
   (E)   Minutes. The Advisory Board shall keep minutes each meeting. Meetings
of the Advisory Board shall be made public and in compliance with the Indiana
Open Door Act. A copy of all minutes adopted shall be referred to the County
Auditor and the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Officers. The Advisory Board members shall, after their appointment,
meet to organize themselves, shall select a president, vice president and
secretary. The president, vice president and secretary shall serve for one year
terms or until their successor has been elected.
   (G)   Committees. The Advisory Board shall create such committees as they
deem appropriate, which committees shall have three members and must include
the Sheriff or his or her designee and the Spencer Police Chief as members.
   (H)   Operating procedures. The County Sheriff’s Department, Spencer Police
Department, and all fire departments, and any other police departments in the
county shall provide the Executive Director and the Advisory Board with a list
of their department’s operating procedures. Each department shall promptly
inform the Executive Director of any changes in operating procedures. The
Advisory Board shall adopt uniform and standardized operating procedures for
the 911 Dispatch Center. The Advisory Board does not establish operating
procedures for individual police and fire departments.
   (I)   Policies and procedures.
      (1)    The Advisory Board shall have the responsibility of establishing
written policies, procedures, and protocols for the 911 Dispatch Center,
including, but not limited to long range planning, training, personnel
standards, and dispatching standards and protocols. The Advisory Board shall
not be involved with other aspects of the 911 Dispatch Center, including
purchasing and personnel management. The Advisory Board shall assist the
Executive Director in preparing the annual budget for the 911 Dispatch Center.
      (2)   The budget shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners prior to
being submitted to County Council.
   (J)   Executive Director job description. The Advisory Board shall develop a
job description for the position of Executive Director which includes the
duties and responsibilities of the position.
   (K)   Hiring of Executive Director. The Advisory Board shall receive
applications for the position of Executive Director, shall review the
applications, shall interview prospective employees and shall make a hiring
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners may
accept or reject the recommendation of the Advisory Board and conduct
subsequent interviews of prospective employees.
(BC Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-5-2019; BC Ord. 2019-0034, passed 9-24-2019; BC Ord.
2024-14, passed 7-3-2024)
§ 31.091 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of the Executive Director for
the Communications 911 Center.
   (B)   The Executive Director shall be an appointed position by the Board of
Commissioners and will be a two-year appointment. The Board of Commissioners
has the authority to hire and terminate the employment of the Executive
Director. The Executive Director shall be considered a county employee and
shall be entitled to all rights and benefits as other county employees, as
established from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and County Council.
The Executive Director shall be bound by any personnel policy established by
the county applicable to any other county employee.
   (C)   The Executive Director shall be responsible for the day to day
operation of the 911 Dispatch Center. The Executive Director shall attend all
Advisory Board meetings and participate in the establishment of the written
policies, procedures, and protocols and prepare an annual budget for the
Communications 911 Center.
   (D)   All employees of the 911 Dispatch Center shall report directly to the
Executive Director. All said employees shall be compensated as county employees
pursuant to the salary approved by the County Council. Employees shall also be
subject to the rules and regulations as set out in the county personnel manual
and such supplementary rules and regulations as may be implemented by the Board
of Commissioners. All decisions concerning scheduling and work conditions shall
be made by the Executive Director.
   (E)   The Executive Director shall be compensated in an amount recommended
by the Board of Commissioners and subsequently approved and appropriated by the
County Council. The County Council may accept or reject the compensation
recommended by the Board of Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-5-2019; BC Ord. 2019-0034, passed 9-24-2019)
CHAPTER 32: SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Retention of service weapon
Sheriff’s Reserve Unit
   
32.15   Creation
   
32.16   Oaths; commissions; powers; duties
   
32.17   Probationary period
   
32.18   Training and by-laws
   
32.19   Compensation
   
32.20   Uniforms
   
32.21   Officers; elections and terms
   
32.22   Financial accounts
   
32.23   Insurance
County Jail Inmates
   
32.35   Inmate processing fee
   
32.36   County inmate health care payments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 RETENTION OF SERVICE WEAPON.
   (A)   If an eligible employee leaves the service of the county after at
least eight years of service, the employee may retain the employee’s service
weapon.
   (B)   Upon an eligible employee’s leave, the Department shall issue to the
employee an identification card that:
      (1)   Gives the employee’s name and rank;
      (2)   Signifies that the employee has served the county; and
      (3)   Notes the employee’s authority to retain the employee’s service
weapon.
(BC Ord. 2007-38, passed 12-17-2007)
SHERIFF’S RESERVE UNIT
§ 32.15 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Sheriff’s reserve unit, the membership of
which shall consist of not more than 15 persons.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s reserve unit shall be made up of persons, who at the
time of their appointment, shall be residents of the county, and who have been
actual residents thereof for at least one year prior to their appointment.
   (C)   Each member shall be in good physical condition and of good character
and not less than 21 years of age.
   (D)   Appointments shall be made by the Sheriff of the county upon
applications received by the Sheriff, after investigation and interview by a
three-member investigation committee to be appointed by the Sheriff each year,
which committee shall make recommendations as to the appointment of the
applicant in each case.
   (E)   The Sheriff shall submit two applications each time an opening exists
for the consideration of the investigation committee.
   (F)   Regular full-time members of the Sheriff’s Department shall not be
eligible for membership in the Sheriff’s reserve unit.
   (G)   Present members of the Sheriff’s reserve unit shall continue to be
members of the reserve unit and shall be deemed to have fulfilled the
provisions of this section.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982; BC Ord. 1994-7, passed 6-6-1994; BC Ord. 1999-
29, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 32.16 OATHS; COMMISSIONS; POWERS; DUTIES.
   The Sheriff’s reserve unit shall function under the immediate direction of
the Sheriff or in his or her absence, the senior officer on duty. Before
entering upon his or her duties, each member shall take and subscribe to the
same oath or affirmation as provided by the statutes to be taken and subscribed
by all Sheriff’s officers. Except during any period of probation, members of
the police reserve unit shall have all the powers and authority and shall be
subject to all the duties of members of the regularly constituted Sheriff’s
Department and shall be subject to the rules and regulations governing the
Sheriff’s Department; provided, however, that membership in the Sheriff’s
reserve unit shall not constitute membership in the regularly constituted
Sheriff’s Department nor shall any member of the Sheriff’s reserve unit be
entitled to any right or privilege of compensation, pension or any other
similar right or privilege of members of the regularly constituted Sheriff’s
Department nor to any other prerequisite or emolument attaching to membership
in said regularly constituted Sheriff’s Department.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 32.17 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Each new member of the Sheriff’s reserve unit shall serve on probation a
minimum of six months and a maximum of 12 months following the date of his or
her appointment. During said period of probation, he or she shall be a member
on probation and shall have only such power, authority and duties as are
assigned to him or her, from time to time, by the Sheriff. Upon completion of
six months, and at any time before expiration of 12 months of probation, the
Sheriff may transfer any such member from probationary to active status. If the
Sheriff does not transfer any such member from probationary to active status
before the expiration of 12 months of probation, such member shall be dropped
automatically from membership in the Sheriff’s reserve unit.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 32.18 TRAINING AND BY-LAWS.
   The Sheriff shall determine the program for training members of the
Sheriff’s reserve unit in accordance with state statute, the Sheriff’s reserve
unit may adopt its own by-laws and rules or regulations and any and all
amendments thereof shall at all times be subject to approval by the Sheriff and
shall not conflict with any provisions of this subchapter, and shall be
subordinate at all times to the ordinances of the county and to rules and
regulations of the Sheriff’s Department and to the orders of the Sheriff.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 32.19 COMPENSATION.
   No member of the police reserve unit shall receive any compensation from the
county for his or her services as a member of the Sheriff’s reserve until
excepting as may be provided from time to time by resolution of the County
Commissioners and County Council.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 32.20 UNIFORMS.
   The members of the Sheriff’s reserve unit shall furnish their own uniforms
and other necessary equipment, without reimbursement from the county, excepting
only to the extent, if any, specifically provided for in the annual
appropriation ordinance fo the county.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 32.21 OFFICERS; ELECTIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The command structure of the county Sheriff’s reserve unit shall be as
follows:
      (1)   President;
      (2)   Vice-President; and
      (3)   Secretary/Treasurer.
   (B)   Each position shall be filled by appointment by the Sheriff of the
county.
   (C)   Discipline shall be enforced by the Sheriff and may consist of any of
the following.
      (1)   Demotion. When in the best interest of the reserve unit, the
Sheriff, with just cause, may demote an officer from any command position
without prejudice.
      (2)   Dismissal.
         (a)   When in the best interest of the reserve unit in the opinion of
the Sheriff, the Sheriff, with just cause, may dismiss any officer.
         (b)   Any officer who violates any departmental Class III violation
shall be dismissed by the Sheriff.
      (3)   Suspension. Any officer who violates any departmental Class II
violation may be suspended by the Sheriff.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982; BC Ord. 1994-7, passed 6-6-1994; BC Ord. 1999-
29, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 32.22 FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS.
   The financial accounts of the Sheriff’s reserve unit shall be subject to
audit any time the Sheriff or County Commissioners may designate. Any such
audit shall be made by the County Auditor or other accountant or auditor
appointed by the Sheriff or County Commissioners for this purpose. The fiscal
officer of the Sheriff’s reserve unit shall present all records and books of
account of the Sheriff’s reserve unit for audit when requested so to do by the
County Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 32.23 INSURANCE.
   The Sheriff’s reserve unit shall maintain and keep in force at all times a
group accident, medical and death benefit insurance policy or policies,
providing insurance coverage for all members of the Sheriff’s reserve unit.
Such policy or policies shall be subject to prior approval of the Sheriff,
County Commissioners and County Council and a certificate of such insurance
shall be delivered to the County Auditor. Premiums for said insurance shall be
paid by the county. The county shall also provide adequate liability insurance
for members of the reserve unit while on duty.
(BC Ord. 82-1, passed 3-1-1982)
COUNTY JAIL INMATES
§ 32.35 INMATE PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   Effective upon proper notice and publication under the law, the County
Sheriff shall assess a $26 processing fee each time a person is booked into the
county jail.
   (B)   The processing fee shall be collected, if possible, before the inmate
is released from jail or the fee shall be deducted from the inmate’s jail
commissary fund. If collection in this manner is not possible, the fee shall
be, upon order of the county circuit court, added to the costs assessed at
sentencing.
   (C)   These funds shall be deposited as follows:
      (1)   The first $25 of each fee shall be deposited in the Jail Medical
Fund; and
      (2)   The remaining $1 shall be placed in the County Police Pension Fund.
(BC Ord. 2002-54, passed 1-23-2002)
§ 32.36 COUNTY INMATE HEALTH CARE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Persons confined to the county jail are hereby required to make a co-
payment of $15 for each provision of medical, dental, eye or other health care
related service requiring an office visit or in-jail visit by a health care
provider.
   (B)   Persons confined to the county jail are hereby required to make a co-
payment of $15 for each drug prescription required during their detention in
the jail.
   (C)   All co-payments collected under divisions (A) and (B) above shall be
deposited into the County Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
   (D)   Persons confined to the county jail need not make copayments under
divisions (A) and/or (B) above if:
      (1)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account at the time the service is provided;
      (2)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account within 30 days after the service is provided;
      (3)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
county jail; or
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or jail
administrator.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to a person confined to the county jail
who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering
medical, dental, eye or any other health care related service; or
      (2)   Is willing to pay for the person’s own medical care.
(BC Ord. 1995-7, passed 5-8-1995; BC Ord. 1999-33, passed 8-9-1999; BC Ord.
2000-11, passed 4- -2000; BC Ord. 2004-4, passed 2-25-2004)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
Section
   
33.01   Establishing a county emergency response system
   
33.02   EMS administrative debt write-off
   
33.03   Non-emergency transport policy
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHING A COUNTY EMERGENCY RESPONSE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners wish to assure an efficient, highly
trained response to emergency 911 calls for service involving illness and
injury within the confines of the county; realizes the county should subsidize
this effort through the EMS Fund; and realize a one system approach to these
responses will achieve the desired level service response.
   (B)   This system will be known as the county emergency response system.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners will establish the single system
approach to be supervised by county EMS at the direction of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)    A single system will have exclusive rights to 911 response to
illness, injury and tactical rescue within the confines of the county.
   (E)   The system will include the levels of response to include paramedics,
advanced EMTs, basic EMTs, first responders, auto extrication person and
tactical rescue services.
   (F)   The County Board of Commissioners wishes to integrate extrication and
tactical rescue services into the existing EMS Department employee base to
allow for continuity of training and service.
   (G)   The county EMS will assure adequate training, audit or review of runs,
and quality assurance to respective members/departments within the one
approach.
   (H)   There shall be a chain of command established within the system from
the Board of Commissioners extending to the responder base to afford structure
and accountability to the system as well as an organized approach to the
management effort.
   (I)   The system shall implement live incident command system approach to
assure operational consistency when dealing with tactical response as well as
casualty incidents.
   (J)   The County Board of Commissioners authorize the Director or the EMS to
enter into mutual aid agreements with local and out of county agencies to
assist in specialty response.
   (K)   The County Board of Commissioners authorize the Director of the EMS to
establish and implement this system immediately with regular reports to the
Board of Commissioners as to the status of the system.
(BC Ord. 2003-74, passed 3-27-2003)
§ 33.02 EMS ADMINISTRATIVE DEBT WRITE-OFF.
   The EMS Director shall be allowed to administratively write-off the
following debts as uncollectible: bankruptcy; deceased with no estate; court
ordered institutionalization or incarceration; wards of the state; and Medicaid
or medical contractual obligations.
(BC Ord. 2001-19, passed 6-13-2001)
§ 33.03 NON-EMERGENCY TRANSPORT POLICY.
   The county EMS acknowledges and agrees as follows.
   (A)   Whenever any patient is properly diagnosed and receiving treatment by
reason of convalescent, rehabilitative or other any other medical coding which
would provide for Medicare reimbursement, the county EMS agrees to waive any
and all costs that exceed the amounts allowable for such transport, under this
coding, as set for in Medicare Part B.
   (B)   Nothing in this policy shall affect or mitigate the costs incurred for
any emergency medical transport or procedure.
   (C)   This policy shall be effective March 15, 2010.
(Policy passed 3-15-2010)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Order to change voter precincts
   
34.02   Certifying County Commissioner and County Council Districts
   
34.03   Accessability of polling places; administration of HAVA funds
§ 34.01 ORDER TO CHANGE VOTER PRECINCTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes voter precincts for the
county.
   (B)   A precinct description and map of the boundaries of each precinct
established and submitted to the Indiana Election Commission is made part
thereof.
   (C)   The estimated number of voters in each precinct established by this
order is set out as exhibits to Order 2004-6 and made a part hereof.
(Order 2004-6, ordered 11-26-2003)
§ 34.02 CERTIFYING COUNTY COMMISSIONER AND COUNTY COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Recertification.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-4(f) and I.C. 36-2-3-4(g), the Owen County
Board of Commissioners have reviewed the federal decennial census data and the
Owen County voter status counts by precinct/split and have determined that a
division under I.C. 36-2-2-4(e) and I.C. 36-2-3-4(e) is not required. The
existing County Commissioner election districts and County Council election
districts established by Owen County Ord. 2016-0009 are composed of contiguous
territory and are reasonably compact. The election districts do not cross
precinct boundary lines and contain, as nearly as possible, equal population.
      (2)   The following Commissioner election districts are hereby
recertified:
         (a)   Commissioner District I shall be comprised of the Townships of
Jackson, Jennings, Harrison, Taylor, Montgomery, and Wayne.
         (b)   Commissioner District II shall be comprised of the Townships of
Washington, Clay, and Franklin.
         (c)   Commission District III shall be comprised of the Townships of
Lafayette, Morgan, Marion, and Jefferson.
      (3)   The following County Council election districts are hereby
recertified:
         (a)   County Council District I shall be comprised of the Townships of
Taylor, Wayne, Montgomery, and Harrison.
         (b)   County Council District II shall be comprised of the Township of
Washington.
         (c)   County Council District III shal1 be comprised of the Townships
of Jackson, Jennings, Lafayette, and Morgan.
         (d)   County Council District IV shall be comprised of the Townships
of Clay, Franklin, Jefferson, and Marion.
   (B)   Maps.
      (1)   A map depicting the recertified County Commissioner election
districts is attached to Ord. 2021-12 and incorporated herein by reference and
marked as Exhibit “A”.
      (2)   A map depicting the recertified County Council Election Districts
is attached to Ord. 2021-12 and incorporated herein by reference and marked as
Exhibit "B”.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-3-4(j), if a conflict exists between: (1) a
map showing the boundaries of a district; and (2) a description of the
boundaries of that district set forth in the ordinance; the district boundaries
are the description of the boundaries set forth in ordinance, not the
boundaries shown on the map, to the extent there is a conflict between the
description and the map.
   (C)   Clerk.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-4(g) and I.C. 36-2-3-4(h), the County
Executive shall file with the Circuit Court Clerk of the county, not later than
30 days after the recertification occurs, a map of the district boundaries
recertified under I.C. 36-2-2-4(f) and I.C. 36-2-3-4(g).
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-3-4.7, the County Executive shall file a copy
of Ord. 2021-12 with the Circuit Court Clerk.
(BC Ord. 2016-0009, passed 4-4-2016; BC Ord. 2021-12, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 34.03 ACCESSABILITY OF POLLING PLACES; ADMINISTRATION OF HAVA FUNDS.
   (A)   Subject to the availability of Title III requirement monies to the
county under the Help America Vote Act of 2002, no later than March 31, 2006,
the county will make all permanent and temporary improvements of each polling
place in order to comply with the polling place accessibility standards set
forth in I.C. 3-11-8, and to the extent possible, make any additional
improvement identified in the HAVA polling place survey that are not
specifically required by state or federal law.
   (B)   The county will submit a report to the State Election Division no
later than December 21, 2005. The report under this section must list the
polling place accessibility problems identified in the survey of polling places
and indicate whether these problems have been resolved by temporary or
permanent improvements or whether the polling place has been relocated to an
accessible facility. If the report indicates that the problems have not yet
been resolved, the report must indicate how the county will resolve the problem
no later than March 31, 2006. The county agrees to submit any additional
reports required by the State Election Division until the county reports that
the polling place accessibility requirements identified in the survey have been
resolved. The report must be certified as accurate by majority vote of the
County Election Board, following review and opportunity for written comments to
be added to the report by the local advisory council described in division (D)
below.
   (C)   As of December 31, 2005, each polling place will contain at least one
voting system to permit a voter who is blind or visually impaired to vote
privately and independently.
   (D)   The county legislative body will adopt an ordinance to establish a
local advisory council comprised of representatives of the disabilities
community and elderly voters to provide assistance to the county in choosing
polling places. The council may include any number of members, but must include
at least two representatives of the disability communities or elderly voters.
The county executive shall appoint the members and shall encourage county
residents with a variety of backgrounds, partisan affiliations and perspectives
to participate. If county residents are not available to serve on the council,
the county executive may partner with the Governor’s Planning Council on
Disabilities to carry out the functions of the council.
   (E)   The county fiscal body pledges that Title III requirement monies and
state matching funds received by the county will be used to pay any outstanding
obligations incurred by the county for the voting system purchase subject to
the reimbursement.
   (F)   The county fiscal body pledges that if the obligations incurred by the
county to obtain this voting system have been paid in full or in part as of
this date, that the remaining Section Title III requirement monies and state
matching funds will be used to improve the administration of elections for
federal office in the county.
   (G)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this section, the county will
establish a separate non-reverting account in which all Title III requirement
monies and state matching funds will be deposited.
   (H)   The county agrees to refund to the state no later than May 1, 2006 an
amount equal to the Title III requirement monies and state matching funds
received by the county if the Secretary of State and the co-directors of the
State Election Division determine on April 1, 2006 that the county has not:
      (1)   Provided at least one voting system in each poll place of the
county no later than December 31, 2005; to permit a voter who is blind or
visually impaired to vote privately and independently in accordance with I.C.
3-11-15; or
      (2)   Honored one or more of the certifications made by the county in
this section regarding polling place accessibility or the permitted use of
these funds.
(Ord. 2004-2A, passed 2-11-2004; Res. 2005-8, passed 5-16-2005)
CHAPTER 35: FUNDS
Section
Administration
   
35.001   County Emergency Management Fund
   
35.002   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.003   Clock/Bell Tower Maintenance Fund
   
35.004   County Recorder’s Enhanced Access Fund
   
35.005   County Holiday Dinner and Flower Fund
Transportation
   
35.015   Cumulative Bridge Fund
   
35.016   Road Sign Fund
   
35.017   Special Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
35.018   Allocation of funds accumulated from the violation of county
regulations affecting county streets and roads
Public Health and Welfare
   
35.030   County Home Fund
   
35.031   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
Corrections
   
35.045   Sheriff’s Tax Warrant Collection Fee Fund
   
35.046   Courts Security Fund
   
35.047   EMS/MTS Fund
   
35.048   Jail Commissary Fund
   
35.049   Security System Monitoring Fund
   
35.050   Special Sheriff’s Drug Education Fund
   
35.051   Drug Free Community Fund
   
35.052   Law Enforcement Assistance Fund
Public Works
   
35.065   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
Recreation
   
35.080   Veterans Park Project Fund
ADMINISTRATION
§ 35.001 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established the County Emergency Management Fund, a non-
reverting fund for the purpose of receiving funds for the purposes of emergency
management and disaster relief in case of a local declared emergency in the
county.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county may accept from the state,
from the federal government through the state, or from any person, firm,
limited liability company, corporation or voluntary association services,
equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of gift, grant or loan for
purposes of emergency management subject to the rules and regulations of the
agency making the offer pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-25.
   (B)   Any funds received by gift may be deposited in the County Emergency
Management Fund, a non-reverting fund established for purpose of emergency
management and disaster relief, and administered by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county shall separately account for monies received
by and expended from the County Emergency Management Fund.
   (D)   Expenditures from the Fund may be made without specific appropriations
of the County Council so long as they are consistent with the purpose of the
Fund, provided however, that they shall not exceed the amount of money in the
Fund as shown by the records of the County Auditor.
   (E)   Expenditures shall be presented to the County Council at its earliest
possible meeting following the conclusion of the emergency for its review.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 35.002 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive transfers of
unused and unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5.
   (B)   Not more than 10% of any fiscal year’s total budget shall be
transferred into the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   Pursuant to P.L. 267-2003, portions received must be deposited in a
Rainy Day Fund established under I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
   (D)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process
as other funds that receive tax money.
   (E)   The County Council hereby intends to utilize its decision-making power
regarding fiscal affairs and set priorities for allocation and expenditure of
the Rainy Day Fund as deemed necessary to best serve the residents of the
county.
(CC Res. 2004-1, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 35.003 CLOCK/BELL TOWER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   Fund No. 313 shall be created and entitled Clock/Bell Tower
Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   All receipts and revenues deposited into that Fund shall be used to
pay for any invoices related to the maintenance, repair and upkeep of the
clock/bell tower only.
(CC Ord. 2009-001, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 35.004 COUNTY RECORDER’S ENHANCED ACCESS FUND.
   (A)   (1)   Under the authority provided by I.C. 5-14-3-3.6(c)(2), the
County Recorder has entered into a contract with a third party to provide
enhanced access to recorded document index information and to recorded document
images that are public records on file and under the legal authority of said
Recorder.
      (2)   I.C. 5-14-3-3.6(e) and I.C. 5-14-3-8(h) permit the assessment of a
reasonable fee for the provision of such enhanced access to public records.
      (3)   I.C. 5-14-3-8.3 requires the county fiscal body to adopt
regulations to establish an enhanced access fund into which the enhanced assess
fees received by the Recorder shall be deposited.
   (B)   The County Council does hereby establish the County Recorder Enhanced
Access Fund No. 1154 (the “Fund”) to receive those fees collected by said
Recorder for the above-described provision of enhanced public access to public
recorders under said Recorder’s charge.
   (C)   The Fund shall be a dedicated fund and the monies deposited therein
shall be used:
      (1)   For the replacement, improvement and expansion of equipment used to
maintain the County Recorder’s document indexing system upon which enhanced
access depends; and/or
      (2)   For the reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in providing
enhanced access to public information by the County Recorder’s office.
(BC Ord. 2011-17, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 35.005 COUNTY HOLIDAY DINNER AND FLOWER FUND.
   (A)   There is created a Holiday Dinner and Flower Fund by the Auditor of
the county.
   (B)   The use of said fund(s) shall be limited to subsidizing an annual
holiday dinner at Christmas time to benefit county employees and purchase of
flowers for county employees who are seriously ill, deceased or on the occasion
of a family members’ death, or for any other purpose that benefits county
employees as the Board of Commissioners may from time to time authorize by
resolution.
   (C)   The profits, if any, from the vending machines located at the
courthouse, highway garage and other location so identified by the Board of
Commissioners, shall be deposited into the Holiday Dinner and Flower Fund(s)
and expended pursuant to division (B) above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section creates an employment benefit for county
employees, but instead expresses the desire of the Board of Commissioners to
use the profits, if any, from the aforementioned vending machines in a manner
that benefits all county employees.
(BC Ord. 1999-30, passed 7-26-1999)
TRANSPORTATION
§ 35.015 CUMULATIVE BRIDGE FUND.
   (A)   The county has previously established a Cumulative Bridge Fund to
provide funds for the cost of construction, maintenance and repair of bridges,
approaches and grade separations.
   (B)   The county hereby reconfirms, ratifies and re-establishes its
Cumulative Bridge Fund.
   (C)   The county shall provide for the Cumulative Bridge Fund by levying an
annual tax in compliance with I.C. 6-1.1-41 in the amount of $0.30 on each $100
assessed valuation of all taxable personal and real property within the county.
   (D)   Upon collection, the tax shall be held in the County Bridge Fund and
used in accordance with law.
   (E)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to give notice of the county’s
proposal and of a public hearing relating thereto by publication in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1.
   (F)   Following said public hearing, the proper officers of the county are
directed to submit this proposal to the State Board of Tax Commissioners for
its approval.
   (G)   Following submission of this proposal to the State Board of Tax
Commissioners, the County Auditor shall provide notice of such submission of
the proposal by publication in accordance with law.
(BC Ord. 1979-3, passed 11-5-1979; BC Ord. 2000-2, passed 1-24-2000)
§ 35.016 ROAD SIGN FUND.
   There is hereby established a non-reverting fund for receipt of monies
collected from fines for violation of county speed limits, to be designated as
the County Road Sign Fund. Upon appropriation by the Council, amounts in the
Fund may be used only purchase, installation and maintenance of road signs on
county roads, and payment of attorney fees and court costs for collection of
said fines.
(CC Ord. 99-39, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 35.017 SPECIAL VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose this section is to protect the life, public
safety, health and general welfare of the citizens of the county, and shall be
construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      CERTIFICATE OF TITLE. The title document for a motor vehicle issued by
the state in which it is registered, describing the vehicle by type, engine
number and vehicle identification number, as well the name and address of the
registered owner and the lienholder (financial institution that loaned money to
buy the vehicle).
      DEALER. A business that has been in business for no less than five years
and has sold no less than 150 motor vehicles during the preceding calendar
year.
      INSPECTION. The investigation of a motor vehicle by a police officer to
determine the vehicles vehicle identification number, year, make and model.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled. The term does not
include a farm tractor, an implement of agriculture designed to be operated
primarily in a farm field or on farm premises, or an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
      POLICE OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer of the Owen County Sheriff’s
Department.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with or without motive power equipped
exclusively for living quarters for persons traveling upon the highways.
      REGISTERED IMPORTER. A person that is registered as an importer with the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; a licensed dealer currently in
good standing with the state; and a validated member of the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism
(C-TPAT) administered by the United States Customs and Border Protection.
   (C)   Authorization. This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-2 et seq.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A new motor vehicle or recreational vehicle sold by a dealer
licensed by the state;
      (2)   A motor vehicle or recreational vehicle transferred or assigned on
a certificate of title issued by the Bureau;
      (3)   A motor vehicle that is registered under the International
Registration Plan;
      (4)   A vehicle that is titled in the name of a financial institution,
lending institution, or insurance company in Canada and imported by a
registered importer, if the registered importer provides:
         (a)   A copy of the registered importer’s validation agreement issued
by the United States customs and border protection;
         (b)   A copy of the entry summary issued by the United States customs
and border protection (CBP form 7501); and
         (c)   A vehicle history report issued by an independent provider of
vehicle history information that includes the vehicle’s title information,
odometer readings, and number of owners.
      (5)   A vehicle that is titled in another state and is in the lawful
possession of a financial institution, a lending institution, an insurance
company, a vehicle rental company, a vehicle leasing company, or a lessee of a
vehicle leasing company if the financial institution, lending institution,
insurance company, vehicle rental company, vehicle leasing company, or lessee
of a vehicle leasing company:
         (a)   Provides a vehicle history report issued by an independent
provider of vehicle history information that includes the vehicle’s:
            1.   Title information;
            2.   Odometer readings; and
            3.   Number of owners.
         (b)   Maintains a copy of all documentation required under this
subsection for at least ten years.
      (6)   A vehicle that is purchased in another state and titled in Indiana
by a vehicle rental company or a vehicle leasing company if the vehicle rental
company or vehicle leasing company:
         (a)   Provides a vehicle history report issued by an independent
provider of vehicle history information that includes the vehicle’s:
            1.   Title information;
            2.   Odometer readings; and
            3.   Number of owners.
         (b)   Maintains a copy of all documentation required under this
subsection for at least ten years.
   (E)   Inspections. An application for a certificate of title for a motor
vehicle or recreational vehicle may not be accepted by the Bureau unless the
motor vehicle or recreational vehicle has been inspected by a police officer.
Any inspections made by a police officer shall have a record of inspection upon
the application form prepared by the Bureau and must verify the facts set out
in the application.
   (F)   Fees.
      (1)   A person or entity requesting an inspection must pay a fee of $5
directly to the County Sheriff’s Department for each inspection performed by
the police officer. Upon payment, the Sheriff’s Department shall issue a
receipt for the fee.
      (2)   Revenue derived from each inspection shall be remitted to the
County Auditor once each month, on the monthly report of collections (County
Form No. 362) and the County Auditor shall receipt said funds into a fund known
as the Special Vehicle Inspection Fund. The County Council may appropriate
money from this fund for use in connection with law enforcement purposes.
(BC Ord. 2011-21, passed 9-7-2011)
§ 35.018 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS ACCUMULATED FROM THE VIOLATION OF COUNTY
REGULATIONS AFFECTING COUNTY STREETS AND ROADS.
   All revenues derived from convictions of ordinances affecting load limits,
speed limits and permits for operation on county roads shall be deposited 80%
in the County Highway Fund as the County Commissioners may direct and 20% in
the County Sheriff’s Fund as the County Commissioners may direct.
(BC Ord. 1993-4, passed 4-29-1993)
PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
§ 35.030 COUNTY HOME FUND.
   (A)   There is created a County Home Fund to be administered by the Auditor
of the county.
   (B)   The county shall accept donations and gifts given for the purpose of
keeping the Owen County Home open, and deposit same in said Fund.
   (C)   The use of said Fund(s) shall be limited to the operation of the Owen
County Home, including, but not limited to personnel costs, utilities,
maintenance and capital improvements.
   (D)   Said fund shall not revert to the General Fund at the end of each
fiscal year but instead be maintained in the Fund for the stated purposes in
this section.
   (E)   The Auditor shall keep a record of all individuals and businesses that
contribute money into this Fund, and in the event that the donations and gifts
are insufficient to keep the Owen County Home open, then the Auditor shall
within 30 days of such occurrence refund the donations and gifts to the
individuals or businesses that made contributions.
   (F)   If the donations and gifts are sufficient to keep the Owen County Home
open, the citizens who requested this section shall cause to be created a not-
for-profit organization, with at least one Commissioner and one Council member
as directors, to administer the continuation of fund raising effort for the
Owen County Home.
   (G)   Nothing in this section commits the county to keeping the Owen County
Home open or in operation unless sufficient donations and gifts are received
into the Fund in adequate time at the outset to forestall closing of the home
and on a continuing basis thereafter.
(BC Ord. 2002-72, passed 11-8-2002)
§ 35.031 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   There is created a new fund with the Auditor's office that shall be
titled “ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund,” (hereafter ARP Fund). The
Auditor has issued a fund number of 8950 with respect to this Fund and such
Fund shall be non-reverting.
   (B)   The purpose of the Fund is to be used for only the following reasons
as set forth in Section 603(c) of the ARP in accordance with U.S. Treasury
guidance:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or to aid the
impacted industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible works of the non-
entitlement unit of local government or county that are performing such
essential work, or by providing grants to eligible employers who employ
eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, non-entitlement of local
government, or county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency relative to
revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the metropolitan
city, non-entitlement unit of local government or county prior to the
emergency; and
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the U.S. Treasury.
   (C)   The funds shall be appropriated by the Owen County Council before use.
Only a local appropriation is needed. To ensure accountability and transparency
of the use of these funds, all disbursements must be made from the ARP grant
fund; money from the ARP fund may not be transferred to another fund of the
county, city, or town.
   (D)   All expenditure of funds shall be approved by the Owen County Board of
Commissioners with any and all claims to be paid from the ARP Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners will establish the plan, conditions and
rules upon which the funds are to be required and used.
   (F)   Any unused funds shall be paid back to the U.S. Treasury when
required.
   (G)   The Auditor shall keep accurate and complete financial records of the
receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited and paid from the ARP
Fund. All related expenditure records (accounts payable, vouchers, minutes,
correspondence, contracts, and the like) must be maintained in a separate file
for future audits of ARP Funds. Every dollar disbursed must be tracked and
there must be supporting documentation for each disbursement. Each disbursement
must be directly tied to a use listed in Section 603(c).
   (H)   No money received in the ARP Fund shall be used for any type of
deposit into any pension fund.
   (I)   This section may be amended based upon future guidance and directives
from the United States Treasury and the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(BC Ord. 2021-009, passed 4-19-2021)
CORRECTIONS
§ 35.045 SHERIFF’S TAX WARRANT COLLECTION FEE FUND.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Tax Warrant Collection Fee Fund, Fund No. 00362, is
hereby established.
   (B)   The Auditor of the county is hereby directed to deposit all funds
derived from the Sheriff’s tax warrant collection fees, as provided by I.C. 6-
8.1-8-3, into said Sheriff Tax Warrant Collection Fee Fund.
   (C)   Said funds may be used by the County Sheriff’s Department to defray
reasonable administrative costs incurred.
   (D)   Any request for use must be appropriated by the county fiscal body
pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-2(b) and all claims herein are subject to the approval
of the Board of Commissioner of the county prior to payment of the same.
   (E)   Any balance on hand in the Sheriff’s Tax Warrant Collection Fee Fund
at year end shall be non- reverting.
   (F)   The Sheriff’s Tax Warrant Collection Fee Fund shall continue in
perpetuity until dissolved by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners of the
county.
   (G)   If the Sheriff’s Tax Warrant Collection Fee Fund is terminated by
ordinance of the Board of Commissioners of the county, any remaining funds
shall be transferred to the General Fund.
(BC Ord. 2015-0006, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 35.046 COURTS SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   It is ordained by the County Council and the Board of Commissioner of
the county that there is to be a fund known as the County Courts Security Fund
to be funded by a fee of $30 to be assessed against any person convicted of a
misdemeanor or felony in county circuit court for any charge filed on or after
January 1, 2008, or any charge deferred by the court. This fee is to be
assessed as a cost and is not suspendable. It shall be assessed for each
separate cause number for which a conviction or deferral is entered and is
payable to the County Clerk.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall deposit said fee into the fund entitled
County Courthouse Security Fund to be appropriated by the County Council.
(Ord. 2007-37, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 35.047 EMS/MTS FUND.
   (A)   There is created a EMS/MTS Fund.
   (B)   The County EMS Director shall deposit all fees collected for medical
transport services after April 1, 2003 into the EMS/MTS Fund.
   (C)   The EMS/MTS Fund is separate from and does not revert to the General
Fund.
   (D)   All medical transport services fees collected and deposited into the
Fund shall be accounted for in detail with a quarterly report of such deposits
generated by the Auditor and County EMS and delivered to the Commissioners and
Council.
   (E)   The County EMS Director may authorize disbursement of money from the
EMS/MTS Fund by filing a claim with the Auditor for payment of part-time
employee wages; costs associated with operation of the Department; purchase of
supplies or equipment; and costs associated with training of Department
personnel.
   (F)   The County EMS Director and Auditor shall prepare and deliver to the
Commissioners and Council a detailed quarterly report of all expenditures out
of the EMS/MTS Fund.
(BC Ord. 2003-77, passed 8-13-2003)
§ 35.048 JAIL COMMISSARY FUND.
   (A)   A Jail Commissary Fund is established and hereby referred to in this
section as “the Fund.” The Fund is separate from the general fund and money in
the Fund does not revert to the general fund.
   (B)   The Sheriff, or the Sheriff’s designee, shall deposit all money from
commissary sales into the Fund, which the Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee
shall keep in a depository designated under I.C. 5-13-8.
   (C)   The Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee at the Sheriff’s or Sheriffs
designee’s discretion and without appropriation by the county fiscal body, may
disburse money from the Fund for:
      (1)   Merchandise for resale to inmates through the commissary;
      (2)   Expense of operating the commissary, including, but not limited to,
facilities and personnel;
      (3)   Special training in law enforcement for employees of the Sheriff’s
department;
      (4)   Equipment installed in the county jail;
      (5)   Equipment, including vehicles and computers, computer software,
communication devices, office machinery and furnishings, cameras and
photographic equipment, animals, animal training, holding and feeding equipment
and supplies, or attire used by an employee of the Sheriff’s Department in the
course of the employee’s official duties;
      (6)   An activity provided to maintain order and discipline among the
inmates of the jail;
      (7)   An activity or program of the Sheriff’s Department to reduce or
prevent occurrences of criminal activity, including the following:
         (a)   Substance abuse;
         (b)   Child abuse;
         (c)   Domestic violence;
         (d)   Drinking and driving; and
         (e)   Juvenile delinquency.
      (8)   Expenses related to the establishment, operation, or maintenance of
the sex and violent offender registry website under I.C. 36-2-13-5.5; or
      (9)   Any other purpose that benefits the Sheriff’s Department that is
mutually agreed upon by the county fiscal body and the County Sheriff. Money
disbursed from the Fund under this subdivision must be supplemental or in
addition to, rather than a replacement for, regular appropriations made to
carry out purposes listed in subdivisions (1) through (8) above.
   (D)   The Sheriff shall maintain a record of the Fund’s receipts and
disbursements. The State Board of Accounts shall prescribe the form for this
record. The Sheriff shall semi-annually provide a copy of this record of
receipts and disbursements to the county fiscal body. The semi-annual reports
are due on July 1 and December 31 of each year.
(BC Ord. 2019-0030, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 35.049 SECURITY SYSTEM MONITORING FUND.
   (A)   The Sheriff of the county is hereby authorized to monitor the security
systems and alarms of businesses and citizens of the county that pay a $15
monthly monitoring fee.
   (B)   There is hereby created the County Security System Monitoring Fund
into which fees collected by the Sheriff from businesses and citizens
participating in the program shall be deposited.
   (C)   This Fund shall be used by the County Sheriff for the maintenance of
the equipment used in monitoring security systems and alarms and for the
maintenance of related equipment.
(BC Ord. 1995-4, passed 3-24-1995)
§ 35.050 SPECIAL SHERIFF’S DRUG EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   All funds received by the Sheriff of the county pursuant to sharing of
proceeds recognized from the Federal Drug Enforcement Agency’s seizure and sale
authority shall be remitted to the County Auditor monthly.
   (B)   The Auditor shall receipt the funds received pursuant to sharing of
proceeds recognized from the Federal Drug Enforcement Agency’s seizure and sale
authority into a fund entitled Sheriff’s Drug Education Fund.
   (C)   The Sheriff’s Drug Education Fund shall be administered by the Sheriff
of the county and the Auditor shall disburse funds from said Sheriff’s Fund as
the Sheriff determines in his or her discretion for:
      (1)   The use of educating the school children and citizenry of the
county regarding drugs and controlled substances;
      (2)   Educating and equipping law enforcement offices regarding drugs and
controlled substances; and
      (3)   Any other lawful county law enforcement purpose which is not
contained in the present budget.
(BC Ord. 1991-8, passed 11-12-1991; BC Ord. 1991-12, passed 12-23-1991)
§ 35.051 DRUG FREE COMMUNITY FUND.
   (A)   Purpose and composition of Fund. The purpose of the County Drug Free
Community Fund is to promote comprehensive local alcohol and drug abuse
initiatives by actively involving community members interested and establishing
and maintaining a county-wide council. The council will work to reduce the drug
and alcohol problems in the county and work to promote awareness of
intervention and treatment options, as well as increase the number of addiction
treatment efforts in the county.
   (B)   Administration of funds. The County Drug Free Community Fund proceeds
are appropriated pursuant to I.C. 5-2-11-5 and deposited pursuant to I.C. 33-
37-7-2(c) and I.C. 33-37-7-8(e).
   (C)   Surplus funds. Money in the fund at the end of a fiscal year shall not
revert to any other fund.
   (D)   Allocation of funds.
      (1)   The County Council shall annually appropriate from the fund amounts
allocated by the Board of Commissioners for the use of persons, organizations,
agencies and political subdivisions designated by the Board of Commissioners to
carry out the purposes of the fund.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall allocate the money in the fund as
follows:
         (a)   For persons, organizations, agencies and political subdivisions
providing prevention and education services in the county, at least 25% of
money in the Fund;
         (b)   For persons, organizations, agencies and political subdivisions
providing treatment in the county, at least 25% of money in the Fund; and
         (c)   For persons, organizations, agencies and political subdivisions
providing criminal justice services in the county, at least 25% of money in the
Fund.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. The Fund may not be used to replace other funding for
alcohol and drug abuse services provided to the county.
(BC Ord. 1991-11a, passed 11-25-1991; BC Ord. 2020-0008, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 35.052 LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Law Enforcement Assistance Fund (referred to
hereinafter as LEAF) to be administered by the Auditor in the same manner as
the county user fee fund is administered under I.C. 33-37-8-6 except all LEAF
claims must be submitted by the Prosecuting Attorney for the 78th Judicial
Circuit.
   (B)   LEAF may be funded by the General Fund, Pre-Trial Diversion Fund,
forfeitures, court ordered restitution, gifts, donations or grants; and
whenever possible, LEAF funds should be recovered and returned to LEAF.
   (C)   The purpose of LEAF is to provide limited funds to assist in the
enforcement of criminal laws in situations where exigent circumstances or the
need for secrecy prevent a law enforcement agency or the Prosecuting Attorney
from seeking such funds through normal channels. It is anticipated that certain
LEAF funds will be used to finance undercover operations and to purchase
controlled substances, stolen property or other contraband that of necessity
such transactions will be cash transactions; that in such cases such funds can
be traced to the Prosecuting Attorney and to the last law enforcement officer
or agent to handle such funds, but such funds cannot be traced reliably
thereafter and that the county must rely entirely on the Prosecuting Attorney’s
discretion in determining the need for such funds and the manner of their
disbursement and must rely entirely on the integrity of the Prosecuting
Attorney concerning any accounting for the use of such funds.
   (D)   In creating LEAF, the county recognizes the Fund could be abused;
however, the county has concluded the risk of abuse is far outweighed by the
positive effect LEAF can have on general effectiveness of law enforcement in
the county.
   (E)   All funds in LEAF shall be available to the Prosecuting Attorney at
all times and may be withdrawn and disbursed by the Prosecuting Attorney within
his or her sole discretion except that single disbursements in excess of $1,000
shall require prior approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Petty Cash Fund procedures authorized by I.C. 36-1-8-3 shall be
followed for LEAF; guidelines for documentation similar to guidelines for
Confidential Expenditures, Appendix J, Indiana Criminal Justice Planning Agency
Financial Guide or Guidelines for Withdrawal of Money and Reporting Procedures
of Enforcement Aid Fund Moneys, Indiana State Police Department shall be
followed for LEAF; and the Prosecuting Attorney shall account annually for all
funds disbursed from LEAF during the preceding year.
(BC Ord. 1988-5, passed 7-5-1988)
PUBLIC WORKS
§ 35.065 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The County Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall be funded by the
levying of a tax on the taxable property in the county.
   (B)   The tax rate for the first year of the County Cumulative Capital
Development Fund shall be $0.05 per $100 of assessed valuation.
   (C)   The tax for funding the Capital Development Fund shall be levied for a
period not to exceed three years.
   (D)   Any increase, reduction or rescinding of the tax levy shall comply
with the provision of I.C. 36-9-14.5-6.
(BC Ord. 1991-2, passed 5-13-1991; BC Ord. 1994-8, passed 6-20-1994)
RECREATION
§ 35.080 VETERANS PARK PROJECT FUND.
   (A)   The Veterans Park Project Fund, Fund No. 4931, is hereby established
for the purpose of funding the County Memorial Park project.
   (B)   The Auditor of the county is hereby directed to deposit all funds
derived from the sale of timber into said Veterans Park Project Fund and said
funds are to be used for the payment of all claims associated with the
construction, logging, appraisals, surveys and maintenance of the County
Memorial Park project and the County Veterans Memorial Wall. All claims herein
are subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioner of the county prior to
payment of the same.
   (C)   Any balance on hand in the Veterans Park Project Fund at year end
shall be non-reverting.
   (D)   The Veterans Park Project Fund shall continue in perpetuity until
dissolved by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (E)   The Veterans Park Project Fund may be terminated if the American
Legion Post #285 dissolves and another entity is not willing or able to further
maintain the Veterans Park or if the Veterans Park ceases to exist.
   (F)   If the Veterans Park Project Fund is terminated, for the reasons as
set for the above, by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners of the county,
any remaining funds shall be transferred to the General Fund.
(BC Ord. 2015-0005, passed 4-6-2015)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Policy and procedure for tax abatements
   
36.02   Taxpayer liability
   
36.03    Internal control standards
County Adjusted Gross Income Tax (CAGIT)
   
36.15   CAGIT distribution
   
36.16   CAGIT rate
Economic Development Income Tax
   
36.30   Economic development income tax
County Innkeeper’s Tax
   
36.45   County innkeeper’s tax
County Motor Vehicle Excise Surtax and Wheel Tax
   
36.60   Motor vehicle excise surtax
   
36.61   Wheel tax
   
36.62   Funds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 POLICY AND PROCEDURE FOR TAX ABATEMENTS.
   (A)    State law shall govern all petitions seeking up to a ten-year
property reassessment.
   (B)   All requests or petitions for property tax abatements in the county
shall first be reviewed and considered by the County Chamber of Commerce and
Economic Development Corporation.
   (C)   The County Chamber of Commerce and Economic Development Corporation
shall review all abatement requests and make an advisory recommendation to the
County Council as to whether the abatement request should or should not be
granted. The county shall retain the exclusive authority to determine the
eligibility for tax abatements and is not bound by the advisory opinion.
   (D)   The County Chamber of Commerce and Economic Development Corporation
shall establish procedures for considering and reviewing abatements and shall
create general guidelines for the public concerning abatements, and shall
deliver and update such policies as they are promulgated from time to time to
the county.
   (E)   In consideration of providing the above-referenced services to those
seeking tax abatements, the County Chamber of Commerce and Economic Development
Corporation shall charge an abatement application fee of $500 to defray its
expenses. This fee shall be reviewed every two years by the County Council to
decide its effectiveness in defraying the aforementioned expenses.
   (F)   The County Auditor shall administer the processing of all state
required forms associated with tax abatements.
(CC Ord. 2008-38, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 36.02 TAXPAYER LIABILITY.
   The county will require a taxpayer to pay the property tax liability for a
year in one installment if the liability is less than $25. The single
installment deadline shall be May 10.
(CC Ord. 1987-2, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 36.03 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of minimum standards and procedures. The acceptable minimum
level of internal control standards and procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-
27(e) by the State Board of Accounts contained in the Uniform Internal Control
Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual, dated September, 2015, are
hereby adopted by the county. All county personnel shall receive training
concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby adopted. The
provisions contained in Ordinance 2016-00017 and identified as Exhibit A: State
Board of Accounts: Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political
Subdivisions, September, 2015, and Exhibit B: State Board of Accounts State
Examiner Directive 2015-6 are hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Notification of fiscal misconduct. A public officer in the county who
has actual knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a
misappropriation of public funds or assets of the public office, including:
information obtained as a result of a police report, an internal audit finding,
or another source indicating that a misappropriation has occurred; shall
immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the State Board of
Accounts and the prosecuting attorney serving in the area governed by the
political subdivision. If any county employee knows or suspects that other
county employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is his or her
responsibility to immediately notify their Supervisor or Board of
Commissioners. If it is alleged a Supervisor or County Commissioner or County
Council member is involved, then the County Prosecutor should be contacted with
respect to the matter.
(BC Ord. 2019-0044, passed 11-4-2019)
COUNTY ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX (CAGIT)
§ 36.15 CAGIT DISTRIBUTION.
   The County Council hereby adopts this subchapter to permit the use of the
county’s portion of the county adjusted gross income tax (CAGIT) for the
purposes of public safety and the same shall be distributed and used in
accordance with I.C. 6-3.5 et seq.
(CC Ord. 2015-00017, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 36.16 CAGIT RATE.
   A county adjusted gross income tax is imposed at the rate of 1% on the
resident county taxpayers of the county and at the rate of 0.25% for all other
county taxpayers. This tax takes effect July 1, 1986, and shall be collected
and distributed to the taxing units according to state law governing same.
(CC Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-5-1986)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX
§ 36.30 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The Council hereby confirms that the county economic development
income tax shall be imposed on the adjusted gross income of the county
taxpayers of the county within the meaning of I.C. 6-3-1, as previously
ordained by Ord. 1997-9 and Ord. 1998-2.
   (B)   The Council hereby confirms that the county economic development
income tax shall be imposed at a rate of 0.30% on the adjusted gross income of
county taxpayers.
   (C)   The Council hereby confirms that the county economic development
income tax shall take effect on July 1, 2005.
(CC Ord. 1997-9, passed 7-1-1997; CC Ord. 1998-2, passed 1-7-1998; CC Ord.
2005-09, passed 5-23-2005)
COUNTY INNKEEPER’S TAX
§ 36.45 COUNTY INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   From the beginning of August 2011, and until further amended by
ordinance, the gross retail income derived from lodging of every person or
entity engaged in the business of renting or furnishing, for periods of less
than 30 days, any room or rooms, lodging, or accommodations in any of the
following located in Owen County is now subject to a tax of 5%, referred to as
an innkeeper's tax:
      (1)   Hotel;
      (2)   Motel;
      (3)   Boat motel;
      (4)   Inn;
      (5)   College or university memorial union;
      (6)   College or university residence hall or dormitory; or
      (7)   Tourist cabin;
   (B)   The tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which:
      (1)   A student rents lodging in a college or university residence hall
while that student received college credit from a college or university located
in the county; or
      (2)   A person rents a room, lodging or accommodations for a period of30
days or more.
   (C)   The innkeeper's tax shall be paid directly to the Indiana Department
of Revenue for reporting periods beginning on September 1, 2024, and shall be
reported on forms approved by and in the manner specified by the Indiana
Department of Revenue.
(CC Ord. 2018-0015, passed 10-9-2018; CC Ord. 2024-016, passed 7-8-2024)
COUNTY MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE SURTAX AND WHEEL TAX
§ 36.60 MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE SURTAX.
   Beginning January 1, 1998, and until further amended by ordinance, all
passenger vehicles, motorcycles and trucks with a declared gross weight that,
does not exceed 11,000 pounds, registered in the county, that are now subject
to an excise tax (in lieu of a property tax) shall also be subject to an annual
excise surtax of $12.50 to be paid with the registration of said motor
vehicles.
(CC Ord. 1997-4, passed 6-16-1997)
§ 36.61 WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 1999, and until further amended by ordinance, all
of the following six classes of motor vehicles, registered in the county, shall
be subject to an annual wheel tax as set out in the following schedule, to be
paid with the registration of said motor vehicles.
Motor Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Motor Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Buses                        $20
Recreational vehicles        $20
Semitrailers                 $20
Tractors                     $20
Trailers
   (Hvy. 12,000 plus)     $20
   (Lt. under 12,000)     $5
Trucks                       $20
 
   (B)   As provided by I.C. 6-3.5-5-4, the following motor vehicles are exempt
from the annual wheel tax:
      (1)   Vehicles owned by the state;
      (2)   Vehicles owned by a state agency of the state;
      (3)   Vehicles owned by a political subdivision of the state;
      (4)   Vehicles subject to the annual license excise surtax imposed under
I.C. 6-3.5-4; and
      (5)   A bus owned and operated by a religious or non-profit youth
organization and used to haul persons to religious services or for the benefit
of their members.
(CC Ord. 1997-4, passed 6-16-1997; CC Ord. 1998-12A, passed 6-2-1998)
§ 36.62 FUNDS.
   Beginning January 1, 1998, all of the excise surtax and wheel tax collected
on motor vehicles registered in the county shall be distributed, as provided in
I.C. 6-3.5-4 and I.C. 6-3.5-5, to the county, and town united of the county by
the County Auditor and shall be used only to construct, reconstruct or repair,
or maintain streets and roads under their jurisdiction.
(CC Ord. 1997-4, passed 6-16-1997)
CHAPTER 37: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Adopting National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
37.02   Disposal of surplus vehicles and other county owned property
   
37.03   Non-smoking policy in all public buildings owned or occupied by the
county
   
37.04    Clean air environment
   
37.05    Courthouse firearms ban
   
37.06   Low software passwords
   
37.07   Investment policy
   
37.08   Social media user policy
Capital Asset Policy
   
37.20   Definitions and provisions
   
37.21   Asset definitions by major category
   
37.22   Recording and accounting
   
37.23    Maintenance of assets
   
37.24    Periodic inventories
   37.25   Depreciation and useful life
Open Burning
   37.40   Definitions
   37.41   Restrictions
   37.42   Penalties for violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 ADOPTING NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   The effort to make this county standardize terminology, interoperable
communications, organizational structures, action plans, personal qualification
and command structures shall follow the guidelines of Presidential Directive
HSPD-5 by adopting NIMS as its standard for incident management.
(BC Res. 2006-17, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 37.02 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS VEHICLES AND OTHER COUNTY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 5-22-22 et seq., when any county owned motor
vehicle or other equipment valued over $500 is to be retired from active
service, the agency to which the property is assigned will return the vehicle,
keys, maintenance history and all equipment accessories to the County Auditor
for Commissioners’ disposition in a public meeting.
   (B)   Vehicles will be assigned for disposition in the following order of
priority:
      (1)   All county governmental agencies will be offered an opportunity to
select a replacement vehicle from the pool of available surplus vehicles.
County agencies must provide evidence of a demonstrated need for a vehicle to
perform their duties. Priority of assignment among agencies will be determined
by the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   Surplus vehicles no longer required for county government use may
be made available to other county municipal government agencies and to
volunteer fire and emergency rescue companies that have a current contract with
the county to provide emergency services to the citizens of the county.
Available surplus vehicles will be transferred, as is, for $1 on a first come,
first served basis;
      (3)   Vehicles not claimed with the procedures described above may be
sold to the general public under the conditions specified for the sale of
surplus property in I.C. 5-22-22-9 and I.C. 5-22-22-4.5;
      (4)   Other disposition of county owned property shall be dealt with in a
like manner, any funding expended and surplus received for items will be
returned to the fund from which the original acquisition of the subject
property was made; and
      (5)   In accordance with I.C. 5-22-22-8, if the property is deemed
worthless, it may be demolished or junked. For purposes of this section,
property may be considered worthless or of no market value if the value of the
property is less than the estimated costs of the sale and transportation of the
property.
(BC Ord. 2013-05, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 37.03 NON-SMOKING POLICY IN ALL PUBLIC BUILDINGS OWNED OR OCCUPIED BY THE
COUNTY.
   (A)   This section be known as the “Tobacco Free Ordinance”.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to establish an orderly, uniform and
equitable policy for the regulation of the use of tobacco in public buildings
under the care of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   This section shall apply to all buildings owned or occupied and under
the care and control of the county.
   (D)   No person shall smoke, chew, consume or use tobacco in any manner
within any public building owned or occupied and under the care and control of
the county.
   (E)   If donated and at no charge to the county, each official or officials
in charge of said buildings, or office or offices located therein shall post
conspicuous signs in each building or office that read “Smoking and Use of
Tobacco Prohibited by Law”.
(BC Ord. 2002-53, passed 3-13-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.04 CLEAN AIR ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMOKING. The holding of, the carrying of or inhalation or exhalation of
smoke from a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or similar smoking device.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all places with the county courthouse.
There should no longer be designated smoking areas.
   (C)   The County Board of Health shall post signs in the county courthouse
stating that smoking is completely prohibited within the building.
(BC Ord. 1996-7, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 37.05 COURTHOUSE FIREARMS BAN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXPLOSIVE. Any agent or substance tending or serving to explode.
EXPLOSIVE shall include, but not be limited to, gunpowder and dynamite.
      FIREARM. Any weapon from which a shot is discharged by an explosive.
FIREARM shall include, but not be limited to, rifle, shotgun or handguns.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no person shall enter or
remain inside the county courthouse while in possession of any firearm or
explosive.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any federal, state or local law
enforcement or judicial officer, members of the armed forces of the United
States while on active duty nor employees of the county.
(BC Ord. 1992-2, passed 2-18-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.06 LOW SOFTWARE PASSWORDS.
   (A)   System level passwords.
      (1)   The following persons shall be assigned a network administrator
password:
         (a)   Owen County Auditor;
         (b)   Owen County Treasurer;
         (c)   President of the County Commissioners; and
         (d)   President of the County Council.
      (2)   The Auditor shall be primary network administrator and the primary
contact for low associates.
   (B)   View only passwords. The persons listed in division (A) shall be
assigned a view-only password to the low software programs. The provisions
contained in division (A) in its entirety is incorporated herein as set forth
in this section establishing view only passwords for elected officials.
   (C)   Custody of system-level passwords.
      (1)   All system-level passwords required for the administration of the
county government network (e.g. root, enable, Windows Administrator,
application administrative accounts, etc.) shall be in the physical custody of
the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The release of any system-level password to an individual,
consultant, vendor, company, or corporation requires the agreement of at least
two Commissioners.
(Res. 2020-0019, passed 2-18-2020; Res. 2021-11, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 37.07 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The investment policy for Owen County, Indiana shall be as follows:
      (1)   That the Investing Officer for Owen County, Indiana is the
Treasurer of Owen County, Indiana.
      (2)   The investment for funds shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of the I.C. 5-13-5-5.7.
      (3)   The investments for public funds shall only be made with the
approval of the investing officer.
      (4)   The investment of public funds under this policy shall be limited
to not more than 25% of the total portfolio of public funds invested by the
political subdivision, including balances in transaction accounts.
      (5)   This investment policy shall expire four years from this date of
its adoption.
   (B)   The Owen County Council hereby authorizes the County Investing Officer
to make investments pursuant to the terms and conditions of the county
investment policy adopted herein.
(CC Ord. 2021-04, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 37.08 SOCIAL MEDIA USER POLICY.
   (A)   Comments and content posted to Owen County-maintained social media
sites are reviewed by staff. While content and comments will not be edited,
Owen County reserves the right to remove user-generated content or comments
when appropriate.
      (1)   Comments and content may be deleted if profane or defamatory.
      (2)   When interacting with other users, please be civil and follow the
usage guidelines established by the applicable social networking service(s).
      (3)   Profanity, obscenity, vulgarity, nudity, defamation, advertising or
political campaigning is not allowed on the Owen County's social media pages.
Such content is subject to deletion.
      (4)   Materials containing a personal attack, insult, racial slur, or any
other derogatory term will be deleted.
      (5)   Comments with the main purpose(s) to sell a product, infringe on
copyright or spam comments, such as the same comment posted repeatedly, may
also be removed.
      (6)   All links posted as comments on the Owen County pages, posts or
profiles may be deleted.
      (7)   Any information and/or comment(s) that could reasonably compromise
the safety of a public official, employee or member of the general public is
subject to deletion.
      (8)   Information which may interfere or compromise current
investigations, law enforcement tactics, the safety of law enforcement staff
and officers, or public safety is subject to deletion.
      (9)   Any disclosure of information that is confidential by law or
regulation will be deleted.
      (10)   Off topic materials may be deleted.
   (B)   Repeated violations of this social media policy may cause the user to
be blocked from Owen County's social media profiles and pages.
   (C)   In addition, Owen County reserves the right to remove material
containing computer viruses or that otherwise may disrupt, damage or restrict
the use of any computer software or hardware or telecommunications equipment.
   (D)   Owen County understands that social media is a 24/7 medium; however,
staff monitoring capabilities are not. Every comment or material that is
inconsistent with this policy may not be seen right away. Owen County trusts in
the maturity and civility of the community to ignore personal attacks and
negative speech and/or to respond politely. If a user discovers any comments or
posts that seem to violate the terms of this social media policy, please send
the site manager a private message.
   (E)   Owen County social media accounts are hosted by web services that are
not owned by Owen County and have different privacy and security policies.
Neither Owen County nor a department thereof are responsible for and do not
endorse or guarantee content, availability, viewpoints, products or services
that are offered or expressed on non-Owen County portal websites.
   (F)   By posting or commenting the user agrees to the terms of this social
media policy.
(BC Res. 2023-07, passed 6-21-2023)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 37.20 DEFINITIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Capital asset. Capital asset is an asset having a useful life of more
than one year and an actual or historical cost of $5,000 or more. Capital
assets include: land, easements, right-of-ways, land improvements, building,
building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and equipment,
vehicles, infrastructure, works of art and monuments, and all other tangible
assets used in operations with useful lives extending beyond one year.
   (B)   Valuation of capital assets.
      (1)   Capital assets should be recorded at actual cost. Normally, the
cost recorded is the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but
also included are any reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and intended use that can be directly related to
the asset. Such costs could include the following: legal and title fees;
appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees; damage payments; land
preparation costs, demolition costs; architect and accounting fees; insurance
premiums during construction; transportation charges; and interest costs during
construction.
      (2)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair
market value on the date donated or acquired.
   (C)   Fixed asset. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production or sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment, or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (such as, land,
building, improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment.)
   (D)   Capital outlays. Expenditures that benefit both current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures,
construction or improvement of buildings, structures, or other fixed assets,
and equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of
usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition
to the government’s general fixed assets.
(BC Ord. 2019-0042, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 37.21 ASSET DEFINITIONS BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that each asset
category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for records
maintenance be fully aware of the categorization system. This section further
clarifies the asset definition by major category.
   (A)   Land.
      (1)   The county will capitalize all land purchases or land donations.
All land purchases shall be capitalized with the actual cost of purchase or if
unavailable, the estimated historical cost. This includes all specified land,
easements, right-of-ways, lots, parcels owned by the governmental unit or its
various departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the method of
acquisition. This includes land purchased outright as an easement or right-of-
way to infrastructures. All costs of legal services incidental to the
acquisition of land, costs relating to the razing for the structure, and other
charges incurred in preparing the land for use are capitalized and carried in
the land account. Donated land will be capitalized at the fair market value at
the time of the donation.
      (2)   All properties obtained through tax sale including but not limited
to land, buildings, land improvements, and building improvements shall be
considered to have no dollar value and will be excluded from reporting as they
are considered property that is being held for resale.
   (B)   Buildings. 
      (1)   The county will capitalize all buildings at the purchase price or
construction cost. Buildings are all structures designed and erected to house
equipment, services or functions. This includes systems, services, and fixtures
within the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes,
canopies, areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all such units that serve
the building. Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers
and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed equipment are included with the
building. Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as buildings.
These are parts of the equipment units they serve.
      (2)   Additions, improvements, and leasehold improvements to the building
as well as the cost of the heating and ventilating system or other permanently
attached fixtures should be capitalized when these costs are considered
betterments. These improvements or renovations to the buildings will be
capitalized in the county if the total cost is $5,000 or greater. Replacement
of a building roof or heating and cooling system will be capitalized when the
cost of the item is $20,000 or greater.
      (3)   Donated buildings will be capitalized using the market value of the
building at the time of the donation. Building purchases made using the federal
or state funding shall follow the appropriate funding source guidelines and the
county capital asset policy.
   (C)   Improvements other than buildings. The county will capitalize
improvements other than buildings in the following manner:
      (1)   Improvements such as excavation, non-infrastructure utility
installation, driveways, parking lots, flagpoles, sidewalks, retaining walls,
and fencing shall be capitalized when the cost of the item is $20,000 or
greater.
      (2)   Milling and paving of an existing parking lot shall be considered
maintenance rather than a capital asset.
      (3)   Improvements other than buildings will be capitalized at the actual
cost of the improvement. If the actual cost is unavailable, the improvement
will be capitalized using its current replacement cost, estimated date of
purchase, and the Indiana Board of Accounts factoring table to determine the
estimated historical cost.
      (4)   The county department heads shall report to the County Auditor any
improvements other than buildings which their respective departments authorized
that cost $20,000 or greater.
      (5)   Donated improvements other than buildings will be capitalized at
the fair market value at the time of the donation.
   (D)   Construction work in progress. The county will capitalize actual
amounts expended on an uncompleted building or other capital construction
project. Once the project is completed, the cumulative costs are transferred to
the appropriate permanent fixed asset account.
   (E)   Machinery and equipment.
      (1)   The county will capitalize all machinery and equipment at the
purchase price or actual cost. The cost of the asset acquired when payment
includes both cash and a trade-in, is the sum of the cash paid plus the fair
market value of the asset traded in. If the fair market value of the asset
being traded in is not readily determinable, cost may be recorded as the cash
paid plus the book value (asset cost minus accumulated depreciation) of the
asset traded in.
      (2)   Equipment includes all types of physical property within the scope
of the capital asset policy for the county not previously classified. Included
in this category are office mechanical equipment, office furniture, appliances,
furnishings, machinery items, maintenance equipment, communication equipment,
police, fire, sanitation, Park Department equipment, laboratory equipment,
vehicles, road and highway equipment, aircraft, EMS and emergency equipment,
earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil defense and emergency equipment,
and data processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
      (3)   The county shall capitalize all machinery and equipment items with
an actual cost or estimated cost of $5,000 or greater. Attachments to machinery
and equipment will be capitalized if purchased at the same time as the
equipment item. Attachments that are purchased separately from a given
equipment item will be capitalized separately from the item if they are
purchased at a time other than when the original item was purchased and have a
cost of $5,000 or greater.
      (4)   Items which extend the useful life of the equipment shall be
capitalized. Department heads should report to the County Auditor the
description, year completed, funding source and dollar amount. An example would
be the purchase of a motor for a vehicle. This does not include the normal
maintenance costs or supplies.
      (5)   Donated machinery and equipment will be capitalized at the fair
market value at the time of donation.
   (F)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   The county will capitalize all county-owned roads and bridges. All
county roads and bridges will be capitalized at original cost or historical
estimated cost. Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that
normally can be preserved for significantly greater number of years than most
capital assets and that are normally stationary in nature. Infrastructure
assets include roads, bridges, streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems
and water systems. Maintenance and repairs will be considered as necessary to
maintain the existing asset and therefore are not capitalized. Examples such as
patching, resurfacing, milling, chip sealing, and snow removal shall be
considered maintenance activities and will be expensed. Additionally, normal
department operating activities such as feasibility studies, and primary
engineering and design will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of
the infrastructure asset.
      (2)   Gravel roads that are paved shall be considered a capital asset.
County roads that are redesigned or re-engineered beyond maintenance activities
such as paving, milling, or chip sealing shall be considered a capital asset.
Roads that are accepted by the Board of Commissioners and the Highway
Department from developers or owners shall be capitalized at the market value
at the time of the donation.
(BC Ord. 2019-0042, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 37.22 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall ensure that accounting for capital assets is
being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The County Auditor will further ensure that
the capital asset report shall be updated annually to reflect additions,
retirements, and transfers and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance
for financial reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation
calculation. The County Auditor shall be responsible for maintaining the
records and accounts of all capital assets that have an actual cost or
estimated historical costs of $5,000 or greater.
   (B)   The County Auditor will depreciate the capital assets of the county by
using the straight-line method or the composite/group method of depreciation.
Land is not depreciated according to general accepted accounting principles.
Depreciable property must meet the following qualifications: the asset must
have a useful life of more than one year and the asset must wear out or lose
value over time.
(BC Ord. 2019-0042, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 37.23 MAINTENANCE OF ASSETS.
   For the maintenance of the capital asset accounting report, the department
heads have the responsibility to report additions, retirements, and transfers
in detail to the County Auditor. Detail includes such data elements as asset
description, location, make, model, serial number, date of acquisition, cost,
life and other information deemed relevant. Reports shall be made in a timely
manner, as the capital asset record must be updated annually. Property should
not be transferred, turned in for auction or disposed of without the approval
of the Board of Commissioners. Department heads shall report all disposed items
to the County Auditor, who shall remove the item from the county capital asset
inventory. All lost or stolen items shall be reported to the County Auditor by
the department heads.
(BC Ord. 2019-0042, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 37.24 PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of capital assets will be conducted by each department
as near as practical to year-end. The County Auditor will provide a list of the
inventory on file which will be sent to each department head before each year-
end. The department heads will then compare physical observations of assets to
the listing noting whether the assets exist, the location if not apparent
otherwise, and relevant factors. If the condition of an asset has deteriorated
to the point its useful life has been impaired, the fact should be noted, and
the reasons for such omissions should be documented to the extent possible.
Department heads shall be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged
to their department. The physical capital asset inventory sheet and related
documentation shall be forwarded to both the County Auditor and the Board of
Commissioners. The County Auditor will compare the results of the physical
inventory to the capital asset records and make necessary adjustments to the
capital assets.
(BC Ord. 2019-0042, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 37.25 DEPRECIATION AND USEFUL LIFE.
   (A)   The County Auditor will assign an estimated useful life to all assets
for the purposes of recording depreciation. The "suggested useful lives"
schedule below will be used to establish asset lives in accordance with the
State Board of Accounts. Asset lives will be adjusted as necessary depending on
the present condition and use of the asset and based on how long the asset is
expected to meet current service demands. Adjustments should be properly
documented.
   (B)   Depreciation will be calculated using the straight-line method. An
asset's historical cost will be depreciated down to zero if kept for its
assigned useful life or longer.
   (C)   Suggested useful lives schedule.
Asset Useful Life
Asset                                                   Useful Life
Construction in progress                                Not depreciated
Land                                                    Not depreciated
Bridges                                                 75 years
Buildings                                               50 years
Roads                                                   50 years
Roads resurfacing                                       15 years
Building improvements and components                    20 years
Improvements other than buildings                       15 years
Tractors                                                20 years
Tractor accessories                                     10 years
Excavators, loaders, rollers, skid steers, and the like 20 years
Large equipment accessories                             15 years
Extra-heavy trucks tractors                             20 years
Heavy trucks                                            10 years
Medium trucks                                           5 years
Light trucks                                            5 years
Sport utility vehicles                                  5 years
Passenger vehicles                                      5 years
Law enforcement vehicles                                4 years
EMS rescue trucks                                       15 years
EMS inflatable boats                                    10 years
EMS metal boats                                         20 years
EMS boat motors                                         10 years
EMS rescue (extraction) tools                           15 years
Other EMS vehicles                                      5 years
Trailers                                                10 years
Vehicle/trailer accessories                             10 years
Small equipment                                         5 years
General tools                                           10 years
Furniture                                               10 years
Technology hardware                                     5 years
 
(BC Ord. 2024-008, passed 4-3-2024)
OPEN BURNING
§ 37.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. All unincorporated areas of the county.
   OPEN BURNING or OPEN FIRE. The burning of any debris, refuse, vegetation or
material if the burning is not contained within a furnace or incinerator which
is a permanent part of a building or structure.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, society
or any other entity deemed a person by state law.
(BC Ord. 2023-020, passed 12-20-2023)
§ 37.41 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The President of the Board of Commissioners may, upon determining that
conditions of safety require and after giving all notice required by state law,
and upon posting notice at the Owen County Courthouse, act to protect the
public welfare and safety by proclaiming an “open burning emergency”.
   (B)   In declaring such open burning emergency, the President of the Board
of Commissioners shall, in their discretion, limit or totally ban open burning
in the county for the period established in the declaration. The declaration of
emergency will contain an expiration date.
   (C)   In making its determination as to whether or not to declare the
existence of an "open burning emergency," the President of the Board of
Commissioners shall take into account, but shall not be bound by, the
recommendations, if available, of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Forestry, and weather station data and current conditions data
provided by that agency, as well as any weather data and current conditions
data provided by any agency of the U.S. Government. Such open burning emergency
shall be fashioned by the President of the Board of Commissioners, in their
discretion, in such a manner as to take into account the public welfare and
safety of the citizens of the county, as well as the need for open burning to
be conducted by various persons, firms and organizations within the county.
   (D)   The restrictions imposed by the emergency may be limited to specific
portions of the county or may be limited to particular hours of the day.
   (E)   During the period of the open burning emergency, no person shall set,
start or attempt to set or allow to continue an open fire within the county
unless they have first obtained and have in their possession a written permit
from the commanding officer of the fire department having primary jurisdiction
over the area where the open fire is to be conducted. The permit may be issued
by the chief of that fire department or by his or her authorized
representative. Such a permit shall be subject to revocation by the President
of the Board of Commissioners without prior notice, but written notice of such
revocation shall be delivered to the holder forthwith. An applicant for such a
permit, if the permit is denied, shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Commissioners.
   (F)   No person shall permit an open fire to burn in any portion of the
county during an open fire emergency unless a human being over 18 years of age
is present to monitor the fire and has a permit.
(BC Ord. 2023-020, passed 12-20-2023)
§ 37.42 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person who violates any provisions of §
37.41 or of any emergency declared pursuant thereto shall be subject to a fine
of $200. Each day a violation of §
37.41, or an emergency declared pursuant to it, continues constitutes a
separate offense.
(BC Ord. 2023-020, passed 12-20-2023)
CHAPTER 38: PURCHASING
Section
Purchasing Procedures
   
38.001   Definitions
   
38.002   Establishment of purchasing agency
   
38.003   Establishment of purchasing agent
   
38.004   Purchasing agent; duties and responsibilities
Purchase-Supplies
   
38.015    Policies for purchases under $5,000
   
38.016    Policies for purchases that exceed $5,000 but do not exceed $150,000
   
38.017   Policies for purchases over $50,000, but less than $150,000;
invitation to quote
   
38.018   Special purchases procedure
   
38.019   Policies for purchases over $150,000; invitation to bid
   
38.020   Policies for purchases over $150;000; request for proposals
   
38.021   Purchasing preference
Public Works Projects
   
38.035   Policies for public works projects exceeding $150,000
   
38.036   Policies for public works projects less than $150,000
   
38.037   Alternate procedures for projects costing less than $250,000;
performance of public work by own workforce
   
38.038   Funds not appropriated or not available; cancellation of contract
   
38.039   Contract for petroleum products
   
38.040   Contract for sand, gravel, asphalt, paving materials or crushed stone
   
38.041   Bond or certified check; requirements
   
38.042   Approval of plans and specifications by license architect or engineer;
filing of record drawings
   
38.043   Emergencies; contracts by invitation
   
38.044   Dividing cost of a single public work project into toe or more
projects; prohibitions
Services of Architects, Engineers and Land Surveyors
   
38.055   Notice of requirement for professional services
   
38.056   Basis for contract compensation
   
38.057   Limitations of employment of construction managers; contracts with
construction managers prohibited   
Other Provisions
   
38.070   Duties of offerors or prospective contractors
   
38.071   Disqualification of contractors dealing with the government of Iran
   
38.072   Contractor requirements; anti-discrimination provisions
   
38.073   Drug testing of employees of public works contracts
   
38.074   Contractors with public contract required to use E-Verify program
   
38.075   Contracts involving steel products
   
38.076   Publication of notices
   
38.077   Cancellation of solicitation; rejection of offer
   
38.078   Offers opened after time stated in solicitation
Credit Card Purchases
   
38.090   Use of credit card for purchases
   
38.091   Monitoring procedures
   
38.092   Termination of the cardholder
   
38.093   Misuse of the card by the cardholder
   
38.094    Reporting lost or stolen credit cards
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 38.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE. A parent, descendant, spouse, spouse of a descendant, brother,
sister, spouse of a brother or sister, employee, director, officer, partner,
limited liability company manager or member, joint venturer, a corporation
subject to common control with the architect, engineer or construction manager,
a shareholder or corporation who controls the architect, engineer or
construction manager, or a corporation controlled by the architect, engineer or
construction manager.
   ARCHITECT. The person registered under I.C. 25-4-1.
   BOARD. The board or officer of a political subdivision or an agency having
the power to award contracts for public work.
   CONSTRUCTION MANAGER. A person designated as a construction manager by
contract who provides professional management services, which contribute to the
control of time and the cost and quality of a public construction project, and
who performs those services concurrent with architectural and engineering
services rendered during the design and construction phases of a construction
project.
   CONTRACTOR. A person who has a contract with a governmental body.
   E-VERIFY PROGRAM. The electronic verification of work authorization program
of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996
(P.L. 104-208), Division C, Title IV, § 403(a), as amended, operated by the
United States Department of Homeland Security or a successor work authorization
program designated by the United States Department of Homeland Security or
other federal agency authorized to verify the work authorization status of
newly hired employees under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986
(P.L. 99-603).
   ENGINEER. The person registered under I.C. 25-31-1.
   EXECUTIVE BRANCH. The department of state government provided in Articles 5
and 6 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana.
   FISCAL BODY. The meaning set forth in I.C. 36-1-2-6.
   GOVERNMENTAL BODY. An agency, a board, a branch, a bureau, a commission, a
council, a department, an institution, an office or another establishment of
any of the following:
      (1)   The executive branch;
      (2)   The judicial branch;
      (3)   The legislative branch; or
      (4)   A political subdivision.
   INTERNET PURCHASING SITE. An open and interactive electronic environment
that is designed to facilitate the purchase of supplies by means of the
internet. The term includes an INTERNET PURCHASING SITE developed under I.C. 4-
13-17.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS. All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
   OFFER. A response to a solicitation. The term includes a bid, proposal and
quote.
   OFFEROR. A person that submits an offer to a governmental body.
   PERSON. Includes an association, a business, a committee, a corporation, a
fiduciary, an individual, a joint stock company, a joint venture, a limited
liability company, a partnership, a sole proprietorship, a trust or another
legal entity, organization or group of individuals.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. The meaning set forth in I.C. 36-1-2-13.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Those services that are within the scope of practice
specified by I.C. 25-4 for architecture, I.C. 25-31 for professional
engineering or I.C. 25-21.5 for surveying; or performed by any licensed
architect, professional engineer or professional surveyor in connection with
the architect’s, engineer’s or surveyor’s professional employment or practice.
   PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. The construction, remodeling, rehabilitation or
repair of any building or other facility of a unit of local government, whether
the building or facility is owned by the unit or leased by the unit with an
option to purchase under I.C. 36-1-10 or any other law. However, PUBLIC
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT does not mean highway or bridge construction.
   PUBLIC FUNDS.
      (1)   Money:
         (a)   Derived from the revenue sources of the governmental body; and
         (b)   Deposited into the general or a special fund of the governmental
body.
      (2)   The term does not include either of the following:
         (a)   Money received by a person under an authorized public-private
agreement under I.C. 5-23; or
         (b)   Proceeds of bonds payable exclusively by a private entity
   PUBLIC WORK. The construction, reconstruction, alteration or renovation of a
public building, airport facility or other structure that is paid for out of a
public fund or out of a special assessment. The term includes the construction,
alteration; or repair of a highway, street, alley, bridge, sewer, drain or
other improvement that is paid for out of a public fund or out of a special
assessment. The term also includes any public work leased by a political
subdivision under a lease containing an option to purchase. The term does not
include work involved in an extension or installation of utility infrastructure
described in I.C. 36-1-12-2.
   PURCHASE. Includes buy, procure, rent, lease or otherwise acquire. The term
includes the following activities:
      (1)   Description of requirements;
      (2)   Solicitation or selection of sources;
      (3)   Preparation and award of contract;
      (4)   All phases of contract administration; and
      (5)   All functions that pertain to purchasing.
   PURCHASING AGENCY. A governmental body that is authorized to enter into
contracts by this chapter, rules adopted under this chapter or by another law.
   PURCHASING AGENT. An individual authorized by a purchasing agency to act as
an agent for the purchasing agency in the administration of the duties of the
purchasing agency.
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS or RFP. All documents, whether attached or
incorporated by reference, used for soliciting proposals.
   SERVICES. The furnishing of labor, time or effort by a person, not involving
the delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents or other items
that are merely incidental to the required performance.
   SOLICITATION. The procedure by which a governmental body invites persons to
submit an offer to enter into a contract with the governmental body for the
purchase or sale of supplies by the governmental body. The term includes an
invitation for bids, a request for proposals and a request for quotes.
   SPECIFICATIONS. A description of the physical characteristics, functional
characteristics, extent or nature of any public work required by the Board.
   SUBCONTRACTOR. A person who is a party to a contract with the contractor and
furnishes and performs labor on the public work project. The term includes
material men who supply contractors or subcontractors.
   SUPPLIES. Any property. The term includes equipment, goods and materials.
The term does not include an interest in real property.
   UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Includes any county, city, town, township and any
other political subdivision, commission or agency created under law. However,
the term does not include a school corporation or lessor corporation qualifying
under I.C. 20-47-2 or I.C. 20-47-3.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.002 ESTABLISHMENT OF PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, (the “purchasing agency”), is established
as the purchasing agency for the county.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the county.
   (D)   The purchasing agency may designate, in writing, any elected
officials, agents and employees of the county as purchasing agents.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.003 ESTABLISHMENT OF PURCHASING AGENT.
   The purchasing agency, hereby establishes the following as purchasing agents
for the county:
   (A)   All elected officials;
   (B)   County Highway Superintendent;
   (C)   County EMA Director;
   (D)   County EMS Director;
   (E)   Executive Director of the Owen County Communication Center;
   (F)   Officer of Veteran Affairs;
   (G)   Health Services Officer;
   (H)   Maintenance Superintendent; and
   (I)   Planning and Building Director–GIS Coordinator
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2019-0031, passed 9-16-2019; Ord.
2020-0030, passed 4-20-2020; BC Ord. 2021-007, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 38.004 PURCHASING AGENT; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The purchasing agency, or its designated agent, is responsible for
maintaining all proposals, quotes, bids and shall publish any and all notices
required by this section in compliance with I.C. 5-3-1 et seq.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
PURCHASE-SUPPLIES
§ 38.015 POLICIES FOR PURCHASE UNDER $5,000.
   (A)   A purchasing agent may make purchases for the normal operation of the
county business in an amount no greater than $5,000.
   (B)   The purchases may be made without inviting or receiving quotes, bids,
or RFPs. These purchases must be made for the normal operation of the county
activities.
   (C)   The amount must be verified by a purchase order and or quote prior to
approval, unless an emergency exists.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2019-0031, passed 9-16-2019; BC
Ord. 2021-007, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 38.016 POLICIES FOR PURCHASES THAT EXCEED $5,000 BUT DO NOT EXCEED $150,000.
   (A)   This section applies only if the purchasing agent expects the purchase
to be:
      (1)   At least greater than $5,000; and
      (2)   Not more than $150,000.
   (B)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies by inviting quotes from at
least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be
purchased.
   (C)   The purchasing agent shall mail/email an invitation to quote at least
seven days before the time fixed for receiving quotes.
   (D)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the purchasing
agent shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and responsive offeror
for each line or class of supplies required.
   (E)   The purchasing agent may reject all quotes.
   (F)   If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a responsible
and responsive offerer, the purchasing agent may purchase under the special
purchasing provisions under §
38.018 and I.C. 5-22-10-10.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2019-0031, passed 9-16-2019; Ord.
2020-0030, passed 4-20-2020; BC Ord. 2021-007, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 38.017 POLICIES FOR PURCHASES OVER $50,000, BUT LESS THAN $150,000;
INVITATION TO QUOTE.
   (A)   The purchasing agency may purchase supplies by inviting quotes from at
least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be
purchased.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall mail an invitation to quote at least seven
days before the time fixed for receiving quotes.
   (C)   If the purchasing agency receives a satisfactory quote, the purchasing
agency shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and responsive offeror
for each line or class of supplies required.
   (D)   The purchasing agency may reject all quotes.
   (E)   If the purchasing agency does not receive a quote from a responsible
and responsive offeror, the purchasing agent may purchase the supplies under
the special purchasing provisions under §
38.018.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.018 SPECIAL PURCHASES PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A purchasing agency may use the procedures for special purchases in
the following instances:
      (1)   When supplies are purchased at an auction;
      (2)   When there exists, under emergency conditions, a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare;
      (3)   When a unique opportunity exists to obtain supplies or services at
a substantial savings to a governmental body;
      (4)   To enter into a contract for data processing or license agreements
for software programs or when only one source meets the county’s reasonable
requirements;
      (5)   When the compatibility of equipment, accessories or replacement
parts is a consideration in the purchase or if only one source meets the
county’s reasonable requirements;
      (6)   When using another purchasing method provided for in this section
would seriously impair the functions of the county;
      (7)   When no offer is received under any other purchasing method
provided for in this section;
      (8)   For the evaluation of supplies or a system containing supplies in
order to obtain functional information or comparative date or for a purpose,
then in the judgment of the purchasing agent, may advance the long-term
competitive position of the governmental body;
      (9)   When a government discount is available;
      (10)   When there is only one source for the supply and purchasing agent
determines, in writing, that there is only one source for the supply;
      (11)   When the supplies or services are being provided as a gift; and
      (12)   A purchasing agency may acquire supplies if the purchasing agency
determines that the governmental body can obtain the transfer of the supplies
from the federal government under I.C. 4-13-1.7 at a cost less than would be
obtained from purchase of the supplies by soliciting for bids or proposals.
However, a governmental body may not make a purchase under this section if
title to the property will be transferred to the governmental body before a
sufficient appropriation to pay the costs of the purchase is appropriated.
However, if the supplies will be transferred to the governmental body upon
conditional sale or under a lease, a lease with option to purchase, or a
contract for the use of the supplies, the governmental body may make the
purchase under this section if there are sufficient funds appropriated to pay
the consideration required for one year of the agreement. A purchasing agency
who purchases or leases surplus federal materials shall, at the time of the
purchase or lease, or immediately thereafter, give public notice in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1.
   (B)   (1)   A purchasing agency shall maintain the contract records for a
special purchase in a separate file.
      (2)   The following shall be included in the file:
         (a)   A written determination of the basis for the special purchase
and the selection of a particular contractor;
         (b)   The contractors name;
         (c)   The amount and type of the contract; and
         (d)   A description of the supplies purchased under each contract.
      (3)   All contracts awarded under this section shall be maintained for a
minimum of five years, unless otherwise required by law.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.019 POLICIES FOR PURCHASES OVER $150,000; INVITATION TO BID.
   (A)   A purchasing agency must issue an invitation to bid when the purchase
will exceed $150,000.
   (B)   The invitation for bid must contain the following information:
      (1)   A purchase description;
      (2)   All contractual terms and conditions that apply to the purchase;
and
      (3)   A statement of the evaluation criteria that will be used, including
inspection, testing, quality, workmanship, delivery, suitability for a
particular purpose, requirement imposed under I.C. 5-22-3-5, time and place for
opening the bids, a statement concerning whether the bid must be accompanied by
a certified check, or other evidence of financial responsibility that may be
imposed in accordance with the rules or polices of the governmental body and a
statement concerning the conditions under which a bid may be cancelled or
rejected in whole or in part as specified under I.C. 5-22-18-2.
   (C)   Notice of the invitation for bid must be provided pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 5-3-1 and notice may also be provided by electronic access
through the computer gateway administered by the office of technology or any
other electronic means available to the county.
   (D)   All bids must be opened publicly and at the time and place designated
in the invitation for bid.
   (E)   Bid award:
      (1)   Bids must be unconditionally accepted without alteration or
correction and evaluated based upon the objective criteria upon the
requirements provided in the invitation for bids; and
      (2)   All bids must be awarded with reasonable promptness by written
notice to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder.
   (F)   The purchasing agency must maintain the following information and must
make available for public inspection:
      (1)   The name of each bidder;
      (2)   The amount of each bid;
      (3)   Any other information the purchasing agency deems necessary; and
      (4)   All bids shall be kept for a period of ten years.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2019-0031, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 38.020 POLICIES FOR PURCHASES OVER $150,000; REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners establishes by rule and policy when: it is
either not practicable or not advantageous to the governmental body to purchase
specified types of supplies by competitive sealed bidding; and receiving
proposals is the preferred method for purchase of that type of supply, the
purchasing agent or purchasing agency is authorized to solicit proposals
through a request for proposals pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-22-9 et
seq.
   (B)   The request for proposals must include the following:
      (1)   The factors or criteria that will be used in evaluating the
proposals;
      (2)   A statement concerning the relative importance of price and the
other evaluation factors;
      (3)   A statement concerning whether the proposal must be accompanied by
a certified check or other evidence of financial responsibility, which may be
imposed in accordance with the rules of the governmental body; and
      (4)   A statement concerning whether discussions may be conducted with
responsible offerors, who submit proposals determined to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for the award.
   (C)   The purchasing agency must give notice pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 5-3-1 et seq.
   (D)   All proposals must be opened and read aloud in a public meeting as
specified in the request for proposals.
   (E)   The purchasing agency must keep a register of proposals which is open
to public inspection after the contract award. The register of proposals must
contain the following:
      (1)   A copy of the request for proposals;
      (2)   A list of all persons to whom a copy of the request for proposals
were given;
      (3)   A list of all proposals received which must include all of the
following:
         (a)   The names and addresses of all offerors;
         (b)   The dollar amount of each offer; and
         (c)   The name of the successful offeror and the dollar amount of that
offeror’s offer.
      (4)   The basis on which the award was made; and
      (5)   The entire content of the contract file except for proprietary
information included with an offer, such as trade secrets, manufacturing
processes, and financial information that was not required to be made available
for public inspection by the terms of the request for proposals.
   (F)   Award shall be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal is
determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the governmental body,
taking into considerations price and other evaluation factors set forth in the
request for proposals.
   (G)   All request for proposals shall be kept for ten years.
(BC Ord. 2019-0031, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 38.021 PURCHASING PREFERENCE.
   (A)   An offeror may claim one of the following types of preference for
which an offeror is eligible:
      (1)   A state business preference under I.C. 5-22-15-20 or I.C. 4-13.6-6-
2.5;
      (2)   A preference for supplies as provided by I.C. 5-22-15-16, I.C. 5-
22-15-18, I.C. 5-22-15-19 and I.C. 5-22-15-24;
      (3)   An state small business preference as provided by I.C. 5-22-15-23;
and
      (4)   An state farm product preference as provided by I.C. 5-22-15-23.5.
   (B)   An offeror who wants to claim a preference provided under this chapter
for a given supply item must indicate in the offer what supply item in the
offer is a preferred supply.
   (C)   An offeror who claims a preference for a given supply item must
certify that the supply offered meets the qualifications set for preferred
supplies.
   (D)   Promotion of the purchase of supplies manufactured in the United
States: supplies manufactured in the United States shall be purchased unless
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonable available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United State exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured outside the United States;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies is substantially less than the quality
of comparable price available supplies manufactured outside the United States;
and
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United State is not in
the public interest.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS
§ 38.035 POLICIES FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS EXCEEDING $150,000.
   (A)   The purchasing agency shall prepare, or have prepared, general plans
and specifications describing the kind of public work required, but shall avoid
specifications which might unduly limit competition. If the project involves
the resurfacing of a road, street or bridge, the specifications must show how
the weight or volume of the materials will be accurately measurer and verified.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall publish notice in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1 and that notice shall include:
      (1)   A statement that the Board is calling for sealed proposals;
      (2)   A statement concerning where the plans and specifications can be
viewed;
      (3)   A statement indicating the date and time for receiving bids and the
date, time and place for the opening of the bids;
      (4)   A statement concerning the requirement for the bidder to provide a
financial statement, a statement of experience, a proposed plan for performance
of the public work, the equipment that the bidder has available for performance
of the public work and that all such statements shall be provided on the form
provided by the Indiana State Board of Accounts;
      (5)   A statement that the bid will be awarded to the lowest responsive
and responsible bidder;
      (6)   A statement that the Board may reject all bids; and
      (7)   A statement whether the bidder will be required to post a bid bond
or certified check in not more than 10% of the contract amount.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.036 POLICIES FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS LESS THAN $150,000.
   (A)   The purchasing agency may invite quotes from at least three persons
known to deal in the class of work proposed to be done by mailing them a notice
stating that the plans and specifications are on file in a specified office.
The notice must be mailed not less than seven days before the time fixed for
receiving quotes.
   (B)   The notice must contain the following:
      (1)   A statement indicating the date and time for opening of the quotes;
      (2)   A statement that the Board may reject all quotes; and
      (3)   A statement indicating whether the Board will require a bond or
certified check in an amount not to exceed 10% of the contract price.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.037 ALTERNATE PROCEDURES FOR PROJECTS COSTING LESS THAN $250,000;
PERFORMANCE OF PUBLIC WORK BY OWN WORKFORCE.
   (A)   A public works project for the routine operation, routine repair or
routine maintenance of existing structures, buildings or real property, if the
cost of the public work is estimated to be less than $250,000:
      (1)   The Board may award a contract for public work in the manner
provided in I.C. 5-22; and
      (2)   The Board may perform any public work by means of its own
workforce, without awarding a contract.
   (B)   Before a Board may perform any work under this section by means of its
own workforce, the political subdivision or agency must have a group of
employees on its staff who are capable of performing the construction,
maintenance and repair applicable to that work.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the cost of a public work project
includes:
      (1)   The actual cost of materials, labor, equipment and rental;
      (2)   A reasonable rate for use of trucks and heavy equipment owned; and
      (3)   All other expenses incidental to the performance of the project.
   (D)   The workforce of a municipality or county may perform a public work
described above only if the public works project is estimated to be more than
$100,000, the Board:
      (1)   Publishes a notice under I.C. 5-3-1 that describes the public work
that the Board intends to perform with its own workforce and sets forth the
projected cost of each component of the public work; and
      (2)   Determines at a public meeting that it is in the public interest to
perform the public work with the Board’s own workforce.
   (E)   A public work project performed by a Board’s own workforce must be
inspected and accepted as complete in the same manner as a public work project
performed under a contract awarded after receiving bids.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.038 FUNDS NOT APPROPRIATED OR NOT AVAILABLE; CANCELLATION OF CONTRACT.
   When the fiscal body makes a written determination that the funds are not
available or otherwise appropriated, the contract may be considered cancelled.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.039 CONTRACT FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Contracts for petroleum products must be bid.
   (B)   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS shall include gasoline, fuel oils, lubricants and
liquid asphalt.
   (C)   A purchasing agency may award a contract for petroleum products to the
lowest responsible and responsive offeror or all responsible and responsive
offerors.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.040 CONTRACT FOR SAND, GRAVEL, ASPHALT, PAVING MATERIALS OR CRUSHED STONE.
   (A)   Contracts for sand, gravel, asphalt, paving materials and crushed
stone must be bid.
   (B)   A county may award sand, gravel, asphalt paving materials, or crushed
stone contracts to more than one responsible and responsive bidder if the
specifications allow for bids to be based upon service to specific geographic
areas and the contracts are awarded by geographic area. The geographic areas do
not need to be described in the specifications.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.041 BOND OR CERTIFIED CHECK; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If the cost of the public work project exceeds $200,000, then a bond
or certified check in an amount not to exceed 10% of the contract price shall
be required.
   (B)   If the cost of the public work projects is less than $200,000, then
the county may require a bond or certified check in an amount not to exceed 10%
of the contract price.
   (C)   Any certified checks will be returned to the unsuccessful bidders upon
selection of the successful bidder. Certified checks of successful bidders will
be held until delivery of the performance bond.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.042 APPROVAL OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS BY LICENSE ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER;
FILING OF RECORD DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Public work performed or contracted for on a public building, the cost
of which is more than $100,000 may be undertaken by the Board only in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by an architect or engineer
licensed under I.C. 25-4 or I.C. 25-31.
   (B)   All plans and specifications for public buildings must be approved by
the State Department of Health, the Division of Fire and Building Safety and
other state agencies designated by statute.
   (C)   The Board must, within 60 days after the completion of the public work
project, file in the Division of Fire and Building Safety a complete set of
final record drawings for the public work project. However, this requirement
does not apply to a public work project constructed at a cost less than
$100,000. In addition, the filing of the drawings is required only if the
project involves a public building.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.043 EMERGENCIES; CONTRACTS BY INVITATION.
   (A)   The Board, upon a declaration of emergency, may contract for a public
work project without advertising for bids if bids or quotes are invited from at
least two persons known to deal in the public work required to be done.
   (B)   The minutes of the Board must show the declaration of emergency and
the names of the persons invited to bid or provide quotes.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.044 DIVIDING COST OF A SINGLE PUBLIC WORK PROJECT INTO TOE OR MORE
PROJECTS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The cost of a public work project includes the cost of materials,
labor, equipment rental and all other expenses incidental to the performance of
the project.
   (B)   The cost of a single public work project may not be divided into two
or more projects for the purpose of avoiding the requirement to solicit bids.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
SERVICES OF ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND LAND SURVEYORS
§ 38.055 NOTICE OF REQUIREMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   If the purchasing agency determines that there is a need to provide notice
for the engagement of professional services, the notice must:
   (A)   Be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
   (B)   Include the location of the project, a general description of the
project, general criteria to be used in selecting professional services firms,
the place where any additional project descriptions or specifications are on
file, the hours of business of the county and the last date for accepting
statements of qualifications from interested parties.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.056 BASIS FOR CONTRACT COMPENSATION.
   The purchasing agency may make all contracts for professional services on
the basis of competence and qualifications for the type of services to be
performed and negotiate compensation that the public agency determines to be
reasonable.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.057 LIMITATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT OF CONSTRUCTION MANAGERS; CONTRACTS WITH
CONSTRUCTION MANAGERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The purchasing agency may not employ the architect or engineer who
provided design services on a public construction project, or his or her
affiliate, to be the construction manager on the project he or she designed.
   (B)   The purchasing agency may not let a general contract, or any separate
trade contract, to perform work on a public construction project to the
construction manager of the project.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 38.070 DUTIES OF OFFERORS OR PROSPECTIVE CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Responsibility of offeror for public works projects.
      (1)   The purchasing agency shall consider the following factors when
determining if an offeror is responsible:
         (a)   The ability and capacity of the offeror to provide the supplies
or service;
         (b)   The integrity, character and reputation of the offeror; and
         (c)   The competency and experience of the offeror.
      (2)   If a purchasing agency determines that an offeror is not
responsible, that determination must be made in writing by the purchasing
agent.
      (3)   If a purchasing agency requires additional information to be
provided by the offeror, in writing, and the offeror fails to provide the
additional information, then the offeror may not be considered responsible. Any
information that is provided by the offeror in accordance with this section,
shall not be disclosed outside the purchasing agency without the offeror’s
prior written consent.
      (4)   An offeror must be registered with the Secretary of State.
      (5)   If requested by the purchasing agent, an offeror must provide
evidence of financial responsibility by bond or certified check in an amount of
10% of the contract price or other evidence specified in the solicitation.
      (6)   An offeror must file with the purchasing agency an affirmation,
made under the penalties for perjury, that states the following:
         (a)   The offeror has not entered into a combination or an agreement:
relative to the price to be offered by a person; to prevent a person from
making an offer; or to induce a person to refrain from making an offer; and
         (b)   The offeror’s offer is made without reference to any other
offer.
   (B)   Responsiveness of the offeror for public works project. The purchasing
agency shall consider the following factors when determining if an offeror is
responsive:
      (1)   Whether the offeror has submitted an offer that conforms in all
material respects to the specifications;
      (2)   Whether the offeror has submitted an offer that complies
specifically with the solicitation and the instructions to offerors; and
      (3)   Whether the offeror has complied with all applicable statutes,
ordinances, resolutions or rules pertaining to the award of a public contract.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.071 DISQUALIFICATION OF CONTRACTORS DEALING WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN.
   (A)   A person is considered to engage in the investment activities in Iran
if either of the following is true:
      (1)   The person provides goods or services of $20,000,000 or more in
value in the energy sector of Iran, including providing any of the following
for the energy sector of Iran:
         (a)   Oil or liquified natural gas tankers; or
         (b)   Products used to construct or maintain pipelines used to
transport oil or liquified natural gas.
      (2)   The person is a financial institution that extends $20,000,000 or
more in credit to another person, for 45 days or more, if that other person:
         (a)   Will use the credit to provide good’s or services in the energy
sector in Iran; and
         (b)   Is, at the time the financial institution extends credit, a
person identified on the list as a person engaging in investment activities in
Iran.
   (B)   A person’s investment contract with the state public retirement system
may not be used as the basis for making a determination under this chapter that
the person is engaged in investment activities in Iran.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.072 CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS; ANTI-DISCRIMINATION PROVISIONS.
   A contract awarded under this chapter must conform to I.C. 5-16-13 and must
conform with the anti- discrimination provision of I.C. 5-16-6-1. For any
violation thereof, the purchasing agency may consider it a material breach of
the contract.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.073 DRUG TESTING OF EMPLOYEES OF PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS.
   Drug testing of employees of public works contractors applies to any public
works contract if the estimated cost of the contract exceeds $150,000.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.074 CONTRACTORS WITH PUBLIC CONTRACT REQUIRED TO USE E-VERIFY PROGRAM.
   The purchasing agency may not enter into a public works contract for a
public works project with a contractor unless the contract contains a provision
requiring:
   (A)   The contractor enroll in and verify the work eligibility status of all
newly hired employees of the contractor through the E-Verify program;
   (B)   A contractor is not required to verify the work eligibility status of
all newly hired employees of the contractor through the E-Verify program if the
E-Verify program no longer exists; and
   (C)   The contractor signs an affidavit affirming that the contractor does
not knowingly employ an unauthorized alien.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.075 CONTRACTS INVOLVING STEEL PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Unless the head of the purchasing agency makes a written determination
that the cost of the contract would be greater than 115% of the cost of the
contract without the following requirements of divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) below
or the failure to impose the requirements of divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) below,
would not in any way harm the business of a facility that manufactures steel
products in the state, or result in the reduction of employment or wages and
benefits of employees of that facility, or if the purchase is less than
$10,000, a solicitation must require that if any steel products are used in:
      (1)   The manufacture of the supplies required under the contract; or
      (2)   Supplies used in the performance of the services under the contract
by the contractor or a subcontractor of the contractor.
   (B)   The steel products must be manufactured in the United States.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.076 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   Whenever public notice is required, notice shall be given by publication in
the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.077 CANCELLATION OF SOLICITATION; REJECTION OF OFFER.
   When the purchasing agency determines it is in the best interests of the
governmental body for a solicitation to be canceled; or offers to be rejected,
in whole or in part, the reasons for a cancellation of a solicitation or
rejection of offers must be made a part of the contract file.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 38.078 OFFERS OPENED AFTER TIME STATED IN SOLICITATION.
   Offers may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation if both of
the following apply:
   (A)   The purchasing agency makes a written determination that it is in the
best interest of the governmental body to delay the opening; and
   (B)   The day, time and place of the rescheduled opening is announced at the
day, time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018)
CREDIT CARD PURCHASES
§ 38.090 USE OF CREDIT CARD FOR PURCHASES.
   (A)   The Owen County Auditor is hereby authorized to make application for
bank issued credit cards (such as Visa or Mastercard). Owen County shall not
establish or authorize the use of store/priority cards or travel/entertainment
cards for county purchases.
   (B)   The Owen County Auditor does not authorize the opening of nor
purchasing of any items from an Owen County online account (such as Amazon or
eBay). Owen County shall not maintain any county sanctioned online accounts.
   (C)   The Owen County Auditor shall establish five bank cards. The county
credit cards shall be kept at the following locations:
      (1)   Two cards at the Owen County Auditor's office;
      (2)   One card at the Owen County Highway Department;
      (3)   One card at the Owen County Sheriff’s Department; and
      (4)   One card at the Owen County Emergency Medical Services Department.
   (D)   Charges shall be made on the credit card to purchase items or services
which are included and authorized in the budget of the respective department.
   (E)   The maximum credit limit on each card shall not exceed $2,500.
   (F)   Credit cards shall not carry an annual fee.
   (G)   No credit card issued under Owen County's name shall be used for
private or other non-county use purchase.
   (H)   Credit cards are to be used strictly for official Owen County
purposes. Use of the card should be limited to goods and services which cannot
efficiently be purchased by methods such as purchase orders or direct billing.
   (I)   Within 72 hours of the purchase, the person using the credit card
shall provide the Owen County Auditor with a copy of the purchase receipt.
   (J)   To avoid late fees and finance charges, department heads/elected
officials are responsible for timely submission of credit card statements with
original, detailed itemized receipt for each charge on the statement to the
Auditor's office. Charges not accompanied with a receipt will be the
responsibility of the employee and may be withheld from the employee's wages.
Repeated occurrences of untimely submission of statements and receipts may
result in suspension or cancellation of card privileges as deemed necessary by
the Board of Commissioners or Owen County Auditor.
   (K)   Any points, cash back, rewards or other benefits earned on the Owen
County credit card are to be redeemed strictly for county purposes. Only the
Owen County Board of Commissioners in a public meeting may authorize the
redemption of any points, cash back, rewards or other benefits earned on the
county credit card.
   (L)   Any employee charging through the credit card system is responsible
for communicating the sales tax-exempt status of Owen County to the vendor. Any
tax charged due to failure of the employee to arrange for tax-exempt status
will be the responsibility of the employee.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2021-008, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 38.091 MONITORING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Owen County Auditor will be responsible for the administration of
county credit cards to employees, as needed, and will assume responsibility for
review of employee's expenditures. For record keeping purposes the Auditor will
maintain a list, in written and electronic form, of all current outstanding
credit card holders.
   (B)   Before receiving and/or using an Owen County credit card, employees
must sign an "Owen County Credit Card Agreement" form setting forth their
obligations under this program. No Owen County employee is authorized to use
any of the county credit cards without signing this form.
   (C)   Credit cards assigned to the Sheriff’s Department, EMS, and Highway
Department may only be used by designated employees. The designated employee
must sign the "Owen County Credit Card Agreement" and submit the form to the
Owen County Auditor. The Sheriff's Department, EMS, and Highway Department
shall provide the Auditor with a copy of the purchase receipt within 72 hours
of the purchase. The maximum credit limit on each of these cards is $2,500.
   (D)   The Owen County Auditor shall have two county credit cards at the
Auditor's office for use for all remaining county departments. One credit card
may only be used for conferences and related travel expenses. Additionally, the
Owen County Auditor may authorize the use of this card for an emergency
purchase. The second credit card may be used by county employees upon signing
the "Owen County Credit Card Agreement." An employee using this credit card
must return the card to the Auditor's office within 24 hours from signing the
card out for use.
   (E)   The County Auditor will review each credit card billing and all
documentation to guarantee compliance with the credit card policy prior to
submitting any claims to the Owen County Board of Commissioners for approval
and payment.
   (F)   The County Auditor will ensure that the receipts for each credit card
purchase are separately audited by a person who is not responsible for payment
and the issuance of checks associated with that account. Conversely, the County
Auditor will ensure that the person issuing the checks for payment of credit
card accounts is not one and the same person who reviews the specific card
receipts.
   (G)   The Owen County Sheriff's Department uses the following credit cards:
(1) VISA; (2) Walmart; (3) Sam's Club; and (4) WEX. Within 72 hours of the
purchase, a representative from the Sheriff's Department shall provide the
County Auditor with a copy of the purchase receipt.
   (H)   The Owen County Auditor will monitor the five VISA credit cards and
the three credit cards (Walmart, Sam's Club and WEX) utilized by the Owen
County Sheriff's Department. No other credit cards may be established as county
credit cards. No online accounts such as Amazon or eBay will be established or
authorized as Owen County accounts.
   (I)   The Owen County Board of Commissioners shall have the right to inspect
credit card receipts at such times and in such manner as to be able to ensure a
secondary audit of the county's credit card practices.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2021-008, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 38.092 TERMINATION OF THE CARDHOLDER.
   (A)   The department head/elected official/county employee must immediately
notify the County Auditor that the credit card of the named cardholder should
be returned to the Auditor.
   (B)   The department head/elected official shall complete the return of
credit card form and forward it to the Owen County Auditor.
   (C)   Upon voluntary or involuntary termination of employment of the
cardholder, the credit card must be:
      (1)   Turned in to the cardholder's department head/elected official; or
      (2)   Forwarded to the County Auditor.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2021-008, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 38.093 MISUSE OF THE CARD BY THE CARDHOLDER.
   (A)   Misuse of a county credit card may result in disciplinary action,
including termination of employment at the sole discretion of the department
head/elected official/Board of Commissioners. This does not limit the
possibility of criminal investigation and prosecution for misuse of the credit
card. Prohibited charges include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Employee's personal or family member's expenses;
      (2)   Cash advances;
      (3)   Gift card purchases; and/or
      (4)   Purchase of flowers and/or cards for bereaved county employee
families.
   (B)   The County Auditor may unilaterally suspend or cancel a credit card
if:
      (1)   The Owen County credit card policies and procedures are not
followed;
      (2)   After review, it is determined that there is no longer a need for
the cardholder to use a credit card; and/or
      (3)   If the cardholder:
         (a)   Attempts to exceed the maximum transaction dollar limit;
         (b)   Attempts to exceed the maximum monthly transaction limit; or
         (c)   Attempts to use the credit card for any unauthorized use.
   (C)   Credit card privileges may be rescinded any time at the discretion of
the Owen County Board of Commissioners and/or County Auditor if the policies
and/or procedures are not followed. The County Auditor will audit credit card
usage and the cardholders will be personally liable for any unauthorized use
that occurs on their credit card.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2021-008, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 38.094 REPORTING LOST OR STOLEN CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   If a credit card is lost or stolen, the cardholder must immediately
notify the credit card company at the toll-free number on the back of the card.
In addition, the County Auditor must be notified that the card is lost or
stolen on the first available business day.
   (B)   In order to receive a replacement credit card, the cardholder and
their department head/elected official must complete a new credit cardholder
agreement.
   (C)   The County Auditor will provide a replacement credit card after the
proper forms have been submitted and approved.
(BC Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-5-2018; BC Ord. 2021-008, passed 4-19-2021)
CHAPTER 39: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Payment of membership dues to organizations
   
39.002    Adoption of deferred compensation plan for Sheriff’s Department
   
39.003    Conflict of interest policy
   
39.004   Payment of accumulated compensatory time
   
39.005   Entering into or renewing contracts with relatives of public officials
Hiring Policy
   
39.015   Purpose
   
39.016   Definition
   
39.017   Procedures for hiring employees
   
39.018   Civil action
Salary, Wages and Other Employee Compensation
   
39.030   Salary and wages
   
39.031   Blanket bond and crime insurance policy
   
39.032   Mileage rate
Personnel Policy
   
39.045   Adoption by reference
Credit Card Policy
   
39.060   Purpose
   
39.061   General
   
39.062   Objectives
   
39.063   Procedures
   
39.064   Monitoring procedures
   
39.065   Termination of the cardholder
   
39.066   Misuse of the card by the cardholder
   
39.067   Reporting lost or stolen credit cards
   
39.068    Return of cards
Drug-Free Workplace
   
39.080   Drug-free workplace
Substance Abuse Policy
   
39.095   Implementation
   
39.096   Definition
   
39.097   Independent contractors
   
39.098   Illegal drugs or substances and the operation of county vehicles
   
39.099   Sick and vacation days; leave   
   
39.100   Termination
   
39.101   Implementation
   
39.102   Testing
Travel Policy
   
39.120   Travel expenses
   
39.121   County travel policy
   
39.122   State statutory travel laws
   
39.123   Reimbursement procedures
   
39.124   Meetings; reimbursement
 
   
39.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES TO ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate, funds from the General Fund or from other
funds for the county and for the elected and appointed officials and members of
the county’s boards, council, departments or agencies in local, regional, state
and national associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature which
has as their purpose the betterment and improvement of county government
operations; and
   (B)   The Board is further authorized to budget and the County Council is
further authorized to appropriate funds to pay the expenses of duly authorized
representatives to attend the meetings and functions of organizations to which
the county belongs.
(BC Ord. passed 8-2-1982)
§ 39.002 ADOPTION OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The County Commissioners establish a deferred compensation plan for
the County Sheriff’s Department to allow for the voluntary participation of
employees of such Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Department will utilize the deferred compensation plan
established by County Sheriff’s Departments in the state known as the Indiana
Sheriffs 457(b) Plan and participate in the group trust arrangement established
by that deferred compensation plan; and the Sheriff is authorized to sign the
adoption agreement to participate in the deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   The County Commissioners hereby authorize the County Auditor to
make deductions from the pay of employees of the Sheriff’s Department who
voluntarily participate in the deferred compensation plan and to deposit the
deferrals in the trust.
      (2)   The County Commissioners also authorize the Committee made up of
representatives of the Sheriff Departments participating in the Plan (as
determined by participating Sheriff Departments) to make such other
arrangements as are necessary to implement the plan.
      (3)   It is understood that, other than the incidental expenses related
to collecting the employees’ deferrals und other minor administrative matter,
there is to be no cost to or contribution by the county to this plan.
(BC Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 39.003 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   The following apply to all public officials and employees of the county.
   (A)   (1)   No officers or employees of the county shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from consultants,
potential consultants or parties to subagreements, unless in accordance with
this conflict of interest policy.
      (2)   The aforementioned prohibition does not include gratuities, favors
or anything of monetary value under $200.
      (3)   Any financial interest under $200 shall be considered not
substantial in accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (B)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations and by the State Department of Transportation.
   (C)   A CONSULTANT is defined as an individual or firm providing engineering
and design related services as a party to a contract with a recipient or
subrecipient of federal assistance.
(BC Ord. 2017-008, passed 6-17-2017)
§ 39.004 PAYMENT OF ACCUMULATED COMPENSATORY TIME.
   The following procedure shall be used for payment of compensatory time:
   (A)   Payments to cover accrued compensatory time shall be made through a
line dedicated for such payments and established in the County Council's
budget.
   (B)   Funds for payment to cover accrued time shall be transferred from the
departments in which compensatory time has been allowed to accrue into the
compensatory time payment line in the Council's budget.
   (C)   Funds for payment to cover accrued time shall be covered from a
department's budget in the following order of preference:
      (1)   From the remainder of the budgeted amount in the salary line of the
employee who has accrued the compensatory time (for example, in instances where
the employee has left employment with Owen County or with the specific
department);
      (2)   From other funds budgeted in the department's personnel lines;
      (3)   From other funds budgeted in the department's supplies or other
services and charges lines; and
      (4)   From additional appropriations. Because the Owen County Council
does not favor the use of additional appropriations to cover compensatory time
payouts, elected officials and department heads seeking additional
appropriations for this purpose must demonstrate that they have exhausted all
possible line items in their budgets before requesting an additional
appropriation.
   (D)   Elected officials/department heads who know they will be required to
make compensatory time payouts due to retirements, resignations, or any other
termination of the employer/employee relationship shall make provisions to
cover those payments in their budgets. These funds should be viewed as
dedicated or encumbered for that purpose, so that no additional appropriations
for compensatory time will be sought from the Owen County Council.
(CC Res. 2021-20, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 39.005 ENTERING INTO OR RENEWING CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES OF PUBLIC
OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-21-2:
         (a)   The executive or a member of the executive body of the unit;
         (b)   A member of the legislative body of the unit; or
         (c)   A member of the fiscal body of the unit.
      RELATIVE. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-21-3:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild;
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle;
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law; or
         (h)   For the purposes of this section, an adopted child of an
individual is treated as a natural child of the individual.
      UNIT. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-2-23, county, municipality, or township.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   A unit may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with the
following only if the requirements in this section are satisfied and the
elected official does not violate I.C. 35-44.1-1-4:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official.
      (2)   A unit may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in division (B)(1) if:
         (a)   The elected official files with the unit a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the unit;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the legislative body of the unit and be
accepted by the legislative body in a public meeting of the unit prior to the
final action on the contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               a.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The clerk of the circuit court in the county where the unit
takes final action on the contract or purchase;
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the unit:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
         (c)   The unit satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
      (3)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of I.C. 35-44.1-1-4 if applicable.
      (4)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official begins.
   (C)   Annual certification of compliance.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-21-6, each elected officer of the unit shall
annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury, that the
officer is in compliance with this chapter. An officer shall submit the
certification to the executive of the unit not later than December 31 of each
year.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-21-4(b), the annual report filed by a unit
with the State Board of Accounts under I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include a statement
by the executive of the unit whether the unit has implemented a policy under
this chapter.
(Res. 2021-22, passed 7-19-2021)
HIRING POLICY
§ 39.015 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt policies and procedures for
hiring of employees within the county in order to maintain fairness and
equality with regard to the wages and benefits available to its employees.
(BC Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 39.016 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by the county, its department heads or
elected officials, who is issued a warrant for compensation from any county
fund, regardless of whether the fund requires appropriation by the county
fiscal body. This shall include personnel hired for temporary work or as
independent contractors.
(BC Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 39.017 PROCEDURES FOR HIRING EMPLOYEES.
   Any department head or elected official, prior to the hiring of a new
employee in a position that has not been previously budgeted for by the County
Council, shall first obtain the approval of the County Council for
compensation, employee hours, employment categories and employee benefits.
(BC Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see § 39.999
§ 39.018 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the county may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating the provisions
of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-14-2011)
SALARY, WAGES AND OTHER EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION
§ 39.030 SALARY AND WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3, the county fiscal body shall fix the
compensation of officers, deputies and the other employees whose compensation
is payable from the County General Fund, County Highway Fund, County Health
Fund, County Park and Recreation Fund, Aviation Fund or any other fund from
which the County Auditor issues warrants of compensation.
      (2)   This includes the power to:
         (a)   Fix the number of officer, deputies and other employees;
         (b)   Describe and classify positions and services;
         (c)   Adopt schedules of compensation; and
         (d)   Hire and contract with persons to assist in the development of
schedules of compensation.
   (B)   In the interest of maintaining a comprehensive compensation structure
for the purposes of fulfilling I.C. 36-2-5-3, the County Council has set and
adopted a written policy concerning compensation, the most current having been
adopted County Council Ord. 2016-0001, which is adopted by reference as if set
out in length herein.
   (C)   The County Council retains its legal authorities and duties over all
other written policy concerning compensation of county employees and, as
outlined by other sections of state law.
   (D)   Position and employee detail are as set by the County Council from
time to time.
(CC Ord. passed - -; CC Ord. 2015-00015, passed 8-10-2015; CC Ord. 2015-0020,
passed 12-14-2015; CC Ord. 2016-0001, passed 1-11-2016; CC Ord. 2018-002,
passed 12-17-2018)
§ 39.031 BLANKET BOND AND CRIME INSURANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Blanket bond.
      (1)   Authorization. The county is authorized to purchase, as needed, a
blanket bond endorsed to cover the faithful performance of all county
employees, commission members and other persons acting on behalf of the county,
including, but not limited to, the Auditor, Treasurer, Recorder, Surveyor,
Sheriff, Coroner, Assessor, Clerk and individuals who are employees and/or
contractors of the county whose official duties include depositing, disbursing
or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, the
state, a political subdivision or another governmental entity.
      (2)   Amount of bond.
         (a)   The amount of the blanket bond shall be in the sum of $300,000
per occurrence of coverage, endorsed to include the faithful performance of all
elected, appointed or employed individuals as further defined in Exhibit “A”,
attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the State Board of Accounts may
fix the amount of an official’s bond or crime policy as prescribed in I.C. 5-
14-1-18(h), (i) and (j).
      (3)   Term. The term of the bond shall be for one year beginning on
January 1 and ending on December 31, of each year unless an individual’s
service date is later than January 1 then, in that instance, the date shall be
the first day of the individual’s service to the county.
      (4)   Payee. All bonds must be payable to the state as required by I.C.
5-4-1-10.
      (5)   Recording.
         (a)   All bonds must be filed with the County Recorder and the County
Auditor within ten days after their issuance.
         (b)   The County Auditor must submit copies of the bond(s) to the
State Board of Accounts electronically via Gateway with his or her annual
financial report.
   (B)   Crime insurance policy.
      (1)   Authorization. The county is authorized to purchase, as needed, a
crime insurance policy that provides coverage for the criminal acts or
omissions committed by officers, employees, contractors, commission members and
persons acting on behalf of the local government unit. Such policy must be
endorsed to cover the faithful performance of all county employees, Commission
members and other persons acting on behalf of the county, including, but not
limited to, the Auditor, Treasurer, Recorder, Surveyor, Sheriff, Coroner,
Assessor, Clerk and individuals who are employees and/or contractors of the
county whose official duties include depositing, disbursing or otherwise having
access to funds that belong to the federal government, the state, a political
subdivision or another governmental entity.
      (2)   Amount. The State Board of Accounts may fix the amount of a crime
policy as prescribed in I.C. 5-4-1-18(h), (i) and (j).
      (3)   Term. The term of the crime insurance shall be for one year
beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31, of each year unless an
individual’s service date is later than January 1 then, in that instance, the
date shall be the first day of the individual’s service to the county.
      (4)   Payee. All crime insurance policies must name the state as
additional insured as required by I.C. 5-4-1-18(d).
(CC Ord. 2015-00018, passed 11-9-2015; BC Ord. 2015-00018, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 39.032 MILEAGE RATE.
   (A)   A person seeking reimbursement under this section must file an
itemized claim with the County Auditor each month under I.C. 36-2-6-2.
   (B)   A person who has a claim against the county shall file an invoice or
bill with the County Auditor. The Auditor shall present the invoice or bill to
the executive, which shall examine the merits of the claim. The executive may
allow any part of the claim that he or she finds to be valid.
(CC Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-7-1985; CC Ord. 1986-3, passed 9-2-1986; CC Ord.
2000-28, passed 11-6-2000; CC Ord. 2004-11, passed 6-14-2004; CC Ord. 2006-14,
passed 6-12-2006; CC Ord. 2008-17, passed 6-9-2008; CC Ord. 2009-9, passed 10-
12-2009; CC Ord. 2011-22, passed 10-10-2011; CC Ord. 2022-008, passed 2-14-
2022; CC Ord. 2022-016(A), passed 7-11-2022)
PERSONNEL POLICY
§ 39.045 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policy of the county is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(BC Res. 2007-10, passed 3-26-2007; BC Res. 2007-32, passed 8-20-2007; BC Res.
2007-60, passed 12-14-2007; BC Res. 2007-61, passed 12-17-2007; BC Res. 2008-
41, passed 11-17-2008; BC Res. 2008-42, passed 12-15-2008; BC Res. 2009-0002,
passed 2-13-2009; BC Res. 2012-08, passed 5-21-2012; BC Res. 2012-09, passed 5-
21-2012; BC Res. 2012-16, passed 11-5-2012; BC Res. 2014-0003, passed 1-10-
2014; BC Res. 2015-003, passed 1-20-2015; BC Ord. 2016-0005, passed 1-4-2016;
BC Ord. 2016-0004, passed 1-19-2016; BC Ord. 2016-0008, passed 3-21-2016 ; Ord.
passed 1-4-2021; Ord. passed 1-4-2021 )
CREDIT CARD POLICY
§ 39.060 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter lists the procedures for issuance and usage of credit
cards in the name of the county for purchases/expenditures related to the
operations of county government.
   (B)   The county is introducing an alternative approach to purchasing
products and services through the use of credit cards. A credit card purchase
will not replace the normal purchasing procedures, but it will be used in
instances where it is not advantageous or cost effective to issue a purchase
order.
   (C)   Credit card privileges may be rescinded at any time at the discretion
of the County Board of Commissioners and/or County Auditor if policies and/or
procedures are not followed. The County Auditor will audit credit card usage
and the cardholders will be personally liable for any unauthorized use that
occurs on their credit card.
   (D)   These procedures provide the guidelines under which cardholders may
utilize their credit card. All cardholders should read the procedures
carefully. A cardholder’s signature on the county credit card agreement
indicates that the cardholders understand the intent of this process and agree
to adhere to the guidelines.
(BC Res. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.061 GENERAL.
   (A)   Credit cards will be issued to permanent county employees with pre-
approval by their respective department head/elected official. No person other
than the person to whom the credit card is issued is authorized to use the
assigned credit card.
   (B)   The County Auditor will provide training to the employee prior to the
issuance of the credit card to ensure that all policies and procedures are
understood. An employee will not be issued a credit card unless training has
taken place.
   (C)   The credit card issued to the employee shall only be used for
purchases directed by the department head/elected official under the provisions
of the purchasing and credit card policies and approved for county business
only.
(BC Ord. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.062 OBJECTIVES.
   Credit cards will allow the county to:
   (A)   Conduct business with vendors or service providers who may not accept
purchase orders or direct billing payments; and
   (B)   Take advantage of cost-saving opportunities by being able to purchase
on the internet and through catalogs as this practice is much more prevalent
than in past years.
(BC Ord. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.063 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Prior to using the credit card, the following should be used first:
      (1)   Use claim process;
      (2)   Set up account with the vendor; and
      (3)   If neither division (A)(1) nor division (A)(2) above is an option,
use the credit card as last resort.
   (B)   The maximum credit limit for each department shall not exceed $1,000
unless written justification by the department head/elected official is
approved by the Board of Commissioners. Credit cards shall not carry an annual
fee.
   (C)   The County Auditor will be responsible for the administration of
county credit cards to employees, as needed, and will assume responsibility for
review of employees’ expenditures. For record keeping purposes, the Auditor
will maintain a register in written and electronic form of all currently
outstanding credit card holders.
   (D)   Before receiving and/or using a county credit card, employees must
sign an “Owen County Credit Card Agreement” form (Attachment A to this Ord.
2014-00010, which is adopted by reference as if set out length herein) setting
forth their obligations under this program. If the card is for the department
only and not an individual, this release will need to be signed each and every
time the card is checked out from the department.
   (E)   Any employee charging through the credit card system is responsible
for communicating the sales tax exempt status of the county to the vendor. Any
tax charged due to failure of the employee to arrange for tax exempt status
will be the responsibility of the employee.
   (F)   (1)   Credit cards are to be used strictly for official county
purposes. Use of the card should be limited to goods and services which cannot
efficiently be purchased by methods such as purchase orders or direct billing.
The following expenses are allowed with prior Commissioner approval:
         (a)   Motel/hotel expenses and guarantee of reservations;
         (b)   Meals associated with conferences and authorized “away from
station” travel expenses;
         (c)   Airline reservations;
         (d)   Car rental;
         (e)   Registration fees;
         (f)   Fuel for county trips; and
         (g)   County vehicle expense for repair of vehicle exceeding $1,000.
      (2)   The following expenses are allowed without prior approval:
         (a)   County vehicle expenses, including vehicle repair less than
$1,000; and
         (b)   Meals associated with transport of prisoners.
   (G)   To avoid late fees and finance charges, department head/elected
officials are responsible for timely submission of credit card statements with
original, detailed itemized receipts for each charge on the statement to the
Auditor’s office. Charges not accompanied with a receipt will be the
responsibility of the employer, and may be withheld from the employee’s wages.
Repeated occurrences of untimely submission of statements and receipts may
result in suspension or cancellation of card privileges as deemed necessary by
the Board of Commissioners or department head/elected official.
   (H)   Employees who have county credit cards in their possession shall be
responsible for protecting the cards from unauthorized use. Lost or stolen
cards shall be immediately reported to the Auditor so the proper procedure can
be followed to cancel the card.
   (I)   Any points, cash back, rewards or other benefits earned on a county
credit card accounts are to be redeemed strictly for county purposes.
(BC Ord. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.064 MONITORING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The County Auditor will review each credit card billing and all
documentation to guarantee compliance with the credit card policy prior to
submitting any claims to the County Board of Commissioners for approval and
payment.
   (B)   The County Auditor will ensure that the receipts for each credit card
purchase are separately audited by a person who is not responsible for payment
and the issuance of checks associated with that account. Conversely, the County
Auditor will ensure that the person issuing the checks for payment of credit
card accounts is not one and the same person who reviews the specific credit
card receipts.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners shall have the right to inspect
credit card receipts at such times and in such manner as to be able to ensure a
secondary audit of the county’s credit card practices.
(BC Ord. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.065 TERMINATION OF THE CARDHOLDER.
   (A)   The department head/elected official/county employee must immediately
notify the County Auditor that the credit card of the named cardholder should
be returned to the Auditor.
   (B)   The department head/elected official shall complete the return of
credit card form (Attachment A of the ordinance codified herein) and forward it
to the County Auditor.
   (C)   Upon voluntary or involuntary termination of employment of the
cardholder, the credit card must be:
      (1)   Turned into the cardholder’s department head/elected official; or
      (2)   Forwarded to the County Auditor.
(BC Ord. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.066 MISUSE OF THE CARD BY THE CARDHOLDER.
   (A)   (1)   Misuse of a county credit card may result in disciplinary
action, including termination of employment at the sole discretion of the
department head/elected official/Board of Commissioners. This does not limit
the possibility of criminal investigation and prosecution for misuse of the
credit card.
      (2)   Prohibited charges include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Employee’s personal or family member’s expenses;
         (b)   Cash advances;
         (c)   Gift card purchases; and
         (d)   Purchase of flowers and/or cards for bereaved county employee
families.
   (B)   The County Auditor may unilaterally suspend or cancel a credit card
if:
      (1)   The county credit card policies and procedures are not followed;
      (2)   After review, it is determined that there is no longer a need for
the cardholder to use a credit card; or
      (3)   If the cardholder:
         (a)   Attempts to exceed the maximum transaction dollar limit;
         (b)   Attempts to exceed the maximum monthly transaction limit; or
         (c)   Attempts to use the credit card for any unauthorized use.
(BC Ord. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.067 REPORTING LOST OR STOLEN CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   If a credit card is lost or stolen, the cardholder must immediately
notify the credit card company at the toll-free number on the back of the card.
In addition, the County Auditor must be notified that the card is lost or
stolen on the first available business day.
   (B)   In order to receive a replacement credit card, the cardholder and his
or her department head/elected official must complete a new credit cardholder
agreement.
   (C)   The County Auditor will provide a replacement credit card after the
proper forms have been submitted and approved.
   (D)   These are overall guidelines for the issuance and usage of county
credit cards. Department head/elected officials may implement more restrictive
policies and procedures, but may not adopt any that are less restrictive.
   (E)   These guidelines and procedures cannot cover every possible situation
that may occur in using county credit cards. Common sense and good judgment
should always be used when acting as an agent for the county.
(BC Ord. 2014-00010, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 39.068 RETURN OF CARDS.
   (A)   The county holds a limited number of credit cards for specific
businesses. The issuance and use of the credit cards shall be handled by an
official in each county department, or office holder as deemed necessary by the
Board of Commissioners, and credit can only be applied for with explicit
direction of the Board of Commissioners in the name of the county, not
individuals. The County Auditor shall maintain a log of the card, card number
and have a signature on file for the individual assigned a particular card.
   (B)   Credit cards shall only be used for the purchase of goods and services
directly related to official county business.
   (C)   Credit cards shall not be used to bypass the accounting system. All
accounting systems maintained by the designated employee or official within
each department or board will have such detail as necessary to provide the
Auditor with the means to encumber or track appropriations in order to provide
the County Commissioners and County Council with timely and accurate accounting
information and monitoring of the accounting system.
   (D)   Payment shall not be made only on the basis of a statement. Procedures
for payments shall be no different than for any other claim, supporting
documents, including paid bills and receipts, shall be made available to the
designated employee or official. Any interest or penalty incurred due to late
filing or furnishing of supporting documents shall be the responsibility of the
individual who requested the credit card for use. All claims should be filed in
a timely manner to avoid the issue of penalties and interest.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of each individual department head to return
cards to the Auditor’s office when no longer used by the department or if a
department head, elected official changes.
(BC Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-3-2013)
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
§ 39.080 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   The county governmental offices will establish a drug-free workplace by:
   (A)   Publishing and providing to all of its employees a statement notifying
employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession
or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the contractor’s workplace
and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violations
of such prohibitions;
   (B)   Establishing a drug free awareness program to inform employees about:
      (1)   The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
      (2)   The contractor’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
      (3)   Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation and employee
assistance programs; and
      (4)   The penalties that may be imposed upon any employee for drug abuse
violations occurring in the workplace.
   (C)   Notifying all employees in the statement required by division (A)
above that as a condition of continued employment the employee will:
      (1)   Abide by the terms of the statement; and
      (2)   Notify the employer of any criminal drug statute conviction for a
violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after such
conviction.
   (D)   Notifying in writing the contracting state agency and the State
Department of Administration within ten days after receiving notice from an
employee under division (C)(2) above, or otherwise receiving actual notice of
such conviction;
   (E)   Within 30 days after receiving notice under division (C)(2) above of a
conviction, imposing the following sanctions or remedial measures on any
employee who is convicted of drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace:
      (1)   Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and
including termination; or
      (2)   Require such employee to satisfactorily participate in a drug abuse
assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a federal,
state or local health, law enforcement or other appropriate agency.
   (F)   Making a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace through
the implementation of divisions (A) through (C) above.
(BC Ord. 2001-13, passed 4-30-2001)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
§ 39.095 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is concerned with the public’s safety and
workplace safety for county employees.
   (B)   The Board wishes for employees of the county to be fit for duty and
entirely capable of performing all employment duties in a competent and
efficient manner.
   (C)   County employees are expected to be in suitable mental and physical
condition while at work, performing their jobs satisfactorily and behaving
appropriately.
   (D)   The use of alcohol and other drugs by county employees may interfere
with such expectations.
   (E)   It is for the above-stated purposes that the county has implemented
the following substance abuse policy which indicates testing for the presence
of drugs and alcohol.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 39.096 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY EMPLOYEE. Any individual employed by Owen County, State of Indiana,
for whom FICA is withheld from the individual’s paycheck or salary by the
county.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 39.097 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.
   Independent contractors employed through the county are exempt from this
subchapter. This subchapter also exempts all county employees who perform
“safety sensitive jobs”, including mechanics and employees who are required to
hold a commercial driver’s license (CDL) to perform their job functions: truck
drivers; bus drivers; mechanics; heavy equipment operators; and any other
position that require a commercial driver’s license, as these “safety
sensitive” employees are subject to separate substance abuse testing as
directed by the Department of Transportation.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 39.098 ILLEGAL DRUGS OR SUBSTANCES AND THE OPERATION OF COUNTY VEHICLES.
   The use, possession, sale, purchase or transfer of unauthorized or illegal
drugs or substances, or the abuse or misuse of legal drugs on county property,
while on county business or while operating vehicles and equipment, by county
employees, is prohibited.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 39.099 SICK AND VACATION DAYS; LEAVE.
   Since physician-directed use of drugs can affect behavior and performance,
when such use of drugs adversely affects job performance or safety, it is in
the best interest of the county employee, co-workers, the public and the county
that the employee take sick or vacation days, or if necessary, unpaid leave in
accordance with the personnel policies concerning requesting medical leaves.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 39.100 TERMINATION.
   The county reserves the right to terminate any county employee who violates
this county drug and alcohol abuse policy. Reporting to work under the
influence of alcohol or non-prescribed drugs or using same while on the job are
listed as cause for discipline up to and including immediate dismissal.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 39.101 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The County Board of Commissioners or its designee is authorized to implement
this policy and program, including a periodic review of the program to address
any problems, changes and/or revisions of it. The County Board of Commissioners
or its designee is responsible for communicating this policy to all county
employees and is accountable for its consistent enforcement.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 39.102 TESTING.
   (A)   Generally. All county employees will be tested for alcohol and drug
abuse in accordance with the approved procedures when directed by the County
Board of Commissioners or its designee. The county will specify the testing
site and provide the tests and test interpretations at no cost to employees.
   (B)   Pre-employment. Under no circumstances will an individual be placed in
a county position without proof of a successful completion of alcohol and drug
testing. Any individual who refuses to submit to such tests, has a detectable
amount of alcohol in his or her system or has a positive controlled substance
test result will not be considered for employment with the county.
   (C)   Random testing. County employees shall be tested annually for drugs
and alcohol at a random annual rate, to be determined by the County Board of
Commissioners, or its designee. In no year shall the maximum rate of employees
tested for drugs surpass 50%, or shall the maximum rate of employees tested for
alcohol exceed 25%.
   (D)   Testing pool. All county employees’ names will be placed in a testing
pool for the purpose of ensuring a random selection process. If an employee’s
name is selected from the pool, the employee’s name remains in the pool, even
after testing. The dates for testing will, under no circumstances, be
announced.
   (E)   Reasonable suspicion.
      (1)   The county is required to test for the use of alcohol and
controlled substances upon reasonable suspicion. REASONABLE SUSPICION is
defined to mean that the county believes the behavior, speech, body odor or
appearance of an employee while on duty are indicative of the use of alcohol
and/or controlled substances. The conduct must be witnessed by a supervisor, if
so trained. Supervisors will receive at least one hour of training to further
their knowledge of possible signs of alcohol and/or drug abuse that influences
an employee’s fitness for duty.
      (2)   A SUPERVISOR, as used in this section, is defined as, but not
limited to the following list of individuals: County Auditor; County Assessor;
County Clerk; County Recorder; County Treasurer; Judge of the county circuit
court; County Sheriff; Supervisor of County Community Corrections; Supervisor
of the County Cooperative Extension Service; Supervisor of the County Home;
Supervisor of the County Emergency Medical Service; Supervisor of the County
Health Department; Supervisor of the County Highway Garage; Supervisor of the
County [illegible word]; and the County Prosecutor.
      (3)   The mere possession of alcohol does not constitute a need for an
alcohol test. The witness must have received training in the detection of
probable alcohol and drug use by observing a person’s behavior.
      (4)   A written record shall be made of the observations leading to a
reasonable suspicion alcohol and/or controlled substance test. This record is
to be signed by the supervisor who requires a reasonable suspicion test and
shall include the observations that culminated in the test(s) being
administered.
         (a)   If a reasonable suspicion alcohol test is not administered
within two hours following the observations, the witness shall prepare and
maintain on file a record stating the reasons the alcohol test was not
administered promptly. In addition, if not administered within eight hours, all
attempts to administer the test shall cease. A record shall be prepared and
maintained stating why the alcohol test was not administered.
         (b)   Prior to the start of work, a county employee must report to his
or her immediate supervisor use of any prescription and/or over the counter
drugs which may affect the outcome of a substance abuse test.
         (c)   1.   All information obtained in the course of testing of county
employees shall be protected as confidential medical information.
            2.   No date concerning this information will be made a part of the
employee’s personnel file nor will it be provided to any other party without
the direct written consent of the county employee, unless the results are
grounds for discipline and/or the grievance procedure is requested by the
employee.
         (d)   Failure to sign a release for alcohol and drug testing will be
classified as refusal to carry out an order of a supervisor and the employee
will be subject to discipline, up to and including termination.
         (e)   Refusal to submit to alcohol and/or controlled substance testing
as required by this subchapter will be recorded as a positive test. REFUSAL TO
SUBMIT TO AN ALCOHOL OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE TEST means that a county employee:
            1.   Fails to provide adequate breath for testing without valid
medical explanation after he or she received notice of the requirement for
breath testing in accordance with this policy;
            2.   Fails to provide adequate urine for controlled substance
testing without a valid medical explanation after he or she has received notice
of the requirement for testing in accordance with this policy; or
            3.   Engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.
   (F)   Test results.
      (1)   County employees testing positive for alcohol (0.04 or greater) or
for a controlled substance shall be prohibited indefinitely from performing any
function for the county and referred to their immediate supervisor. County
employees testing 0.02 or greater for alcohol, but less than 0.4 shall also be
prohibited from performing any function for the county, nor shall the county
permit him or her to perform any county function until the start of the
employee’s [missing text]
      (2)   After verify a positive result, the testing service, through the
County Board of Commissioners, or its designee, shall make every reasonable
effort to contact the county employee, and afford him or her the opportunity to
discuss test results. If after making all reasonable efforts and documenting
them, the Board of Commissioners, or its designee, shall contact the county
employee’s supervisor, who shall direct the employee to contact the Board of
Commissioners, or its designee, as soon as possible (within 48 hours).
      (3)   Employees may be subject to discipline, up to and including
discharge.
   (G)   Retention of records. All records will be maintained in
confidentiality by the drug and alcohol testing service appointed by the
county.
(BC Ord. 1995-12, passed 9-11-1995; Ord. 2020-0010, passed 1-6-2020)
TRAVEL POLICY
§ 39.120 TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   The county will pay expenses incurred by employees authorized to travel on
county business. Authorization shall be in advance by the elected official or
department head responsible for the budget out of which the travel expenses are
to be paid.
(BC Ord. 2004-8, passed 4-14-2004)
§ 39.121 COUNTY TRAVEL POLICY.
   (A)   Reimbursable travel expenses (other than state-called meetings)
include:
      (1)   Hotel/motel accommodations;
      (2)   *Bus, taxi and airport limousine transportation including gratuity;
      (3)   *Air, rail or bus tickets, lowest practical fair;
      (4)   State rate for mileage for using privately-owned vehicle in lieu of
public transportation;
      (5)   Necessary parking and storage fees;
      (6)   Meals:
         (a)   Overnight stay not required: no reimbursement; and
         (b)   Overnight stay required: per state law.
      (7)   Business-related telephone calls (proof of number(s)) called
required); and
      (8)   Other necessary expenses with approval.
   (B)   Reimbursable travel expenses for state-called meetings include:
      (1)   Hotel/motel accommodations based on double occupancy possible;
      (2)   *Bus, taxi and airport limousine transportation, including
gratuity;
      (3)   *Air, rail or bus tickets, lowest practical fare;
      (4)   State rate for mileage for using privately-owned vehicle in lieu of
public transportation (one individual per office may claim mileage); and
      (5)   Any employee reimbursed directly by the state for travel who has
previously been reimbursed by the county for the same travel expenses shall
promptly deliver said state reimbursement check to the County Auditor.
   (C)   Expenses not allowed:
      (1)   Personal entertainment;
      (2)   Fines for parking, speeding and the like;
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages;
      (4)   Valet services;
      (5)   Travel related to personal entertainment;
      (6)   Additional payment to individuals for attending meetings; and
      (7)   Expenses related to mechanical failure of privately owned vehicles,
including, but not limited to, flat tires, automobile accidents and the like,
with the exception that an employee in an automobile accident may be subject to
worker’s compensation coverage in accordance with the Worker’s Compensation Act
(I.C. 22-3-2 et seq.)
*Expenses not allowed for meetings within 100 miles of Spencer unless
authorized by the elected officials.
(BC Ord. 2004-8, passed 4-14-2004)
§ 39.122 STATE STATUTORY TRAVEL LAWS.
   (A)   For State Board of Accounts called conferences under I.C. 5-11-14-1:
      (1)   Mileage is at the rate determined by the fiscal body. Lodging is
the amount equal to a single room rate;
      (2)   Meals/per diem at an amount determined by the fiscal body for meals
purchased while attending the conference;
      (3)   Receipt for the meal less any tip the attendee gave; and
      (4)   Paid for out of General Fund unappropriated.
   (B)   For the Department of Local Government finance instructional sessions,
it is covered under: I.C. 6-1.1-35-3:
      (1)   Lodging is the amount not less that the lodging allowance equal to
the lesser of the cost of a standard room rate at the hotel or the actual cost
of lodging paid;
      (2)   Meals/per diem is the amount for each day in attendance not less
than the subsistence allowance for meals paid to state employees but not more
than the maximum allowance permitted for federal employees. Amount is to be
established by the fiscal body;
      (3)   Mileage at a rate to sum paid per mile to state employees. That
rate is presently $0.28. The county is paying $0.32 presently, but this is not
following statute;
      (4)   Parking expense is the charge at the location of the meeting site;
and
      (5)   Paid for out of General Fund unappropriated.
   (C)   For the Department of Local Government finance training sessions, it
is covered under I.C. 6-1.1-35.2-3:
      (1)   Per diem per session is set by the DLGF and currently it is $25 per
session; and
      (2)   Mileage would be from the attendee’s work location.
   (D)   For the Election Division instructional meetings, it is covered under
I.C. 3-6-4.2-14:
      (1)   Per diem is $24 appropriated;
      (2)   Mileage is state rate appropriated;
      (3)   Registration fee is paid from the unappropriated General Fund; and
      (4)   Lodging is equal to lodging allowances provided to state employees.
This is $79 outside of Marion County and $83 in Marion County and comes out of
appropriated budget for this office.
   (E)   For the Judicial Conference of Indiana Conferences for Judges, it is
covered under I.C. 33-38-9-7. State pays for the mileage and lodging for this
conference and provides a couple meals a day. Any additional costs or costs not
covered by the state would be paid by county in accordance with county travel
policy from budgeted funds. They have one mandatory state conference in
September and other meetings throughout the year.
   (F)   For the prosecutors, Attorney General’s conference is covered under
I.C. 33-39-6-1. Allowable reimbursements are the actual expense of
transportation to and from the conference, actual expense of meals, actual
expense of lodging and this comes from the prosecutor’s budget appropriated.
(BC Ord. 2004-8, passed 4-14-2004)
§ 39.123 REIMBURSEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   File claim immediately upon return;
   (B)   Complete and sign county claim form identifying the person to receive
payment; and
   (C)   Attach credit card receipts and cash receipts certifying purchases or
expenses. Receipts must be attached for reimbursement.
(BC Ord. 2004-8, passed 4-14-2004)
§ 39.124 MEETINGS; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Persons who have verbally or in writing agreed to attend a meeting for which
payment has been authorized by the county, and then fails to attend, will be
expected to reimburse the county. If the county has been notified of the
employee’s canceling, the elected official may, depending on the reason for
canceling, opt to waive reimbursement.
(BC Ord. 2004-8, passed 4-14-2004)
§ 39.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
39.015 through
39.018 may be subject to a fine of $250 per day not to exceed $2,500. Each day
of such unlawful activity constitutes a separate offense. Any such action for
mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the
penalties provided for in this code, plus the cost of filing and reasonable
attorney fees. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this code of ordinances.
(BC Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 40: FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
40.001   Returned check fee
   
40.002   Facsimile fee
   
40.003   Copy fee
   
40.004   Public records fees
Real Property Fees
   
40.015   Real property endorsement fee
   
40.016   Foreclosures
   
40.017   Supplemental recording fee
Land Usage Fees
   
40.030   Plat approval fees
   
40.031   Drainage Board approval of subdivision plats
   
40.032   Building fees
Judicial and Law Enforcement Fees
   
40.045   Annual sex offender or violent offender registration fees
   
40.046   County Attorney fees
   
40.047   Police investigator’s reports
Enhanced Emergency Telephone System
   
40.060   Definitions
   
40.061   Fee
   
40.062   Administrative fee
   
40.063   Remittance of fees
   
40.064   Deposit of fees
   
40.065   Delinquent fee report
   
40.066   Fee collection
Health Department
   
40.080   Health Department fees
Emergency Medical Service
   
40.095   Fees
 
   
40.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   County Emergency Medical Services, see
Chapter 33
   County Organizations, see
Chapter 31
   Funds, see
Chapter 35
   Purchasing, see
Chapter 38
   Sheriff’s Department, see
Chapter 32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 40.001 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   Whoever issues or delivers to an official, deputy officials, agent or
employee of the county, a check, draft or order on a credit institution for the
payment of or to acquire money, that is not paid or honored by the credit
institution upon presentment in the usual course of business, shall pay the
actual cost of notice and collection of the sum involved, but in no event less
than $23.
(CC Ord. 2001-7, passed 3-5-2001)
§ 40.002 FACSIMILE FEE.
   All county offices are hereby authorized by the County Board of
Commissioners to charge $1 per page for all facsimile copies sent by any county
office to non-office personnel, as well as the cost of such phone charges as
are associated with the sending of such copies.
(BC Ord. 1993-12, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 40.003 COPY FEE.
   All county offices are hereby authorized by the County Board of
Commissioners to charge $1 per page for any copies made for non-office
personnel.
(BC Ord. 1993-6, passed 4-26-1993)
§ 40.004 PUBLIC RECORDS FEES.
   (A)   Public records fee schedule – specific departments.
      (1)   Recorder's office fees: per I.C. 36-2-7-10.
      (2)   Clerk's office fees: per I.C. 33-37-5.
      (3)   EMS medical record fees: per Owen County Ord. 2021-005.
      (4)   Oversized records (larger than 8½ inches x 14 inches) fees and fees
for electronic copies as set by the specific department in conformance with
I.C. 5-14-3-8(g).
   (B)   Public records fee schedule – all other fees.
      (1)   (a)   Black and white copies: $0.10 each.
         (b)   Color copies: $0.25 each.
         (c)   Double-sided pages are considered two copies.
      (2)   Certification fee: $5.
      (3)   Mailing. For those public record copies that are requested to be
mailed, the requester will be charged the actual cost of mailing. If an Owen
County department determines that the number of copies requested are too
cumbersome to mail, they must be picked up at that department during their
regular business hours.
      (4)   Time of payment. Payment is due before the public records will be
released. An Owen County department reserves the right to demand payment prior
to copying in the event that the department determines that the anticipated
cost warrants such action.
   (C)   There shall be no fee charged for the inspection of public records.
   (D)   All revenue generated under this section shall be deposited into the
General Fund of Owen County.
(CC Ord. 2023-004, passed 4-10-2023)
REAL PROPERTY FEES
§ 40.015 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   Definition. DEED is a signed and usually sealed instrument containing
some legal transfer, bargain or contract.
   (B)   Fee. In accordance with I.C. 36-2-9-18(d), the County Auditor may
collect a fee of $10 for each deed or legal description of each parcel
contained in the deed for which the County Auditor makes a real property
endorsement. Such fee shall be in addition to any other fee provided by law.
Revenue received under this fee shall be placed in a dedicated fund for use in
maintaining plat books.
   (C)   Effective date. The effective date for said fee is July 1, 2019.
(BC Ord. 2019-0010, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 40.016 FORECLOSURES.
   (A)   There should be and there is hereby establishes the following
authorized charges by the Sheriff of the county:
 
Sheriff mortgage foreclosure sale cost $125
 
   (B)   The monies collected from the Sheriff mortgage foreclosure sale costs
fees shall be deposited in the County General Fund for appropriation of the
operating expenses of the Sheriff’s Department.
(BC Ord. 2005-18, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 40.017 SUPPLEMENTAL RECORDING FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10(c)(1), the County Recorder shall charge a
supplemental fee of $3 per document, which shall be paid at the time of
recording of the document effective May 1, 1997.
   (B)   The said supplemental recording fee of $3 is in addition to all other
recording fees required by law for services rendered by the County Recorder’s
office.
   (C)    Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10(c), the supplemental recording fee shall
be placed in the Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund, along with the fees
collected per I.C. 36-2-7-10(c)(5), I.C. 36-2-7-10(c)(6) and I.C. 36-2-7-10(c)
(10) to be used by the County Recorder without appropriation, for the
preservation of records and the improvement of record keeping systems and
equipment.
(CC Ord. 1997-2, passed - -1997)
LAND USAGE FEES
§ 40.030 PLAT APPROVAL FEES.
   An owner or developer of a previously approved platted subdivision may make
an application to the Board of Commissioners to subdivide or combine one or
more lots or tracts in said approved platted subdivision. If the recorded
covenants or restrictions in said subdivision include a provision prohibiting
subdivision of lot(s) or tract(s), the owner or developer must get the
signature of all owners of other lots in the subdivision and record same in the
office of the County Recorder. Approval of subdivision of a lot(s) or tract(s)
will be for good cause shown. The fee for said application will be $250 plus
$50 per lot or tract being subdivided or combined.
(BC Ord. 2000-16, passed 7-24-2000; BC Ord. 2001-41, passed 10-11-2001; BC Ord.
2002-67, passed 6-26-2002; BC Ord. 2002-68, passed 7-24-2002)
§ 40.031 DRAINAGE BOARD APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   An applicant for Drainage Board approval in the subdivision plat
approval process pursuant to county ordinances shall be assessed a fee in the
amount of $200.
   (B)   Said applicant shall pay such fee to the County Building/Health
Department as part of the subdivision plat approval process.
   (C)   Said Drainage Board fee may be waived in whole or part by the County
Board of Commissioners for good cause shown as provided for by ordinance.
   (D)   Said subdivision plat approval fees shall be deposited in the Plan
Commission account with unexpended funds not reverting to the General Fund at
the end of the fiscal year.
(BC Ord. 2001-42, passed 10-11-2001)
§ 40.032 BUILDING FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the county may bring a civil action as
provided in I.C. 34-28-5-1 if a person:
      (1)   Violates an ordinance regulating or prohibiting a condition or use
of property; or
      (2)   Engages in conduct without a license or permit if an ordinance
requires a license or permit to engage in the conduct.
   (B)   A court may take any appropriate action in a proceeding under I.C. 36-
1-6-4, including any of the following actions:
      (1)   Issuing an injunction;
      (2)   Entering a judgment;
      (3)   Issuing a continuous enforcement order (as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-
2);
      (4)   Ordering the suspension or revocation of a license;
      (5)   Ordering an inspection;
      (6)   Ordering a property vacated;
      (7)   Ordering a structure demolished;
      (8)   Imposing a penalty not to exceed an amount set forth in I.C. 36-1-
3-8(a)(10);
      (9)   Imposing court costs and fees in accordance with I.C. 33-37-4-2 and
I.C. 33-37-5;
      (10)   Ordering a defendant to take appropriate action to bring a
property into compliance with an ordinance within a specified time; or
      (11)   Ordering a municipal corporation to take appropriate action to
bring a property into compliance with an ordinance in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-6-2.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 2020-0031, passed 4-20-2020; Ord. 2020-0049,
passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
40.999
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of building fees, see §
151.021
JUDICIAL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT FEES
§ 40.045 ANNUAL SEX OFFENDER OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to charge the sum
of $50 per year for the registration of sex or violent offenders and $5 for
each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The county now establishes a County Sex and Violent Offender
Administration Fund and the County Sheriff’s Department shall deposit all funds
collected for sex or violent offender registration fees and address change fees
for sex or violent offenders into this account. The County Auditor shall
monthly transfer 10% of any fees collected to the Treasurer of the state for
deposit in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under I.C.
11-8-8-21.
   (C)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the state sex and violent offender
registry.
(BC Ord. 2011-20, passed 9-7-2011)
§ 40.046 COUNTY ATTORNEY FEES.
   The County Board of Commissioners hereby authorized the County Attorney to
appear on behalf of the Probation Department to prosecute and collect all
delinquent court ordered fees and the County Board of Commissioners authorize
the County Attorney to charge a set fee of $100 per case to prosecute said
claims, unless the judgment was entered prior to January 1, 2006. In such
cases, the county court services shall include in its yearly budgeting process
the amounts necessary to cover the costs of prosecution of delinquent court
ordered fees for judgments entered prior to January 3, 2006.
(BC Res. 2006-1, passed 1-3-2006; BC Res. 2008-33, passed 9-15-2008)
§ 40.047 POLICE INVESTIGATOR’S REPORTS.
   The County Council fixes the amount to be charged for furnishing copies of
police investigator’s reports of accidents to persons requesting the same at $5
for each such report.
(CC Ord. 1, passed - -1987; CC Ord. 1988-4, passed - -1988)
ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
§ 40.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16.7-9, means a
telephone system that uses the three-digit 911 number to send automatic number
identification and automatic location identification for reporting police,
fire, medical or other emergency situations.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16.7-10, means the access from a particular
service users premises to a telephone system, including:
         (a)   An access link;
         (b)   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk; and
         (c)   A centrex line trunk equivalent that is provided by the service
supplier.
      (2)   The term also includes a mobile telephone, access trunk, whether
the trunk is provided by the telephone company or a radio carrier.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER and SERVICE USER. Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16.7-19, SERVICE
SUPPLIER means the person who provides exchange telephone service to a service
user and SERVICE USER means a person, to whom exchange telephone service is
provided.
(CC Ord. 1991-7, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 40.061 FEE.
   A monthly fee of $2.02 per telephone access line or other exchange access
facility will be collected by the service supplier to pay the lease, purchase
or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone equipment including necessary
computer hardware, software and database provisioning, and the rates associated
with the service suppliers enhanced emergency telephone system network
services.
(CC Ord. 1991-7, passed 11-4-1991; CC Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 40.062 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   The service supplier(s) shall be entitled to retain an administrative fee of
3% of the monthly fees collected as compensation for collecting the fee.
(CC Ord. 1991-7, passed 11-4-1991; CC Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 40.063 REMITTANCE OF FEES.
   (A)   All monthly fees collected except for the 3% administrative fee shall
be remitted to the Treasurer of the county, within ten days after the last day
of the calender quarter.
   (B)   The service supplier shall provide a fee collection report to the
Auditor (fiscal officer) of the county at the same time the collected fees are
remitted.
   (C)   The service supplier shall prepare the report on a form provided by
the County Auditor.
(CC Ord. 1991-7, passed 11-4-1991; CC Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 40.064 DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   The County Auditor shall deposit the remitted fees in a separate fund named
the E-911 Fund. The County Treasurer may invest monies in the Fund in the same
manner that other monies of the county are invested with interest earned from
such investment to be deposited in that Fund.
(CC Ord. 1991-7, passed 11-4-1991; CC Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 40.065 DELINQUENT FEE REPORT.
   (A)   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the County Auditor.
   (B)   The report shall list the name, address and amount due for each
service user who is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee.
(CC Ord. 1991-7, passed 11-4-1991; CC Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 40.066 FEE COLLECTION.
   Each service supplier shall commence collecting the enhanced emergency
telephone system fee from its service users with the month of January, 2006.
(CC Ord. 1991-7, passed 11-4-1991; CC Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-14-2005)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 40.080 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES.
   The following fees shall be charged for services performed by the County
Health Department:
 
Environmental Services              Fee
Dye testing                         $25
On-site mortgage inspection         $75
Re-inspection fee (additional trip) $25
Site evaluation application         $75 new systems or repairs
Food Services Fee
Food Services                 Fee
Permanent food establishments
   1 to 5 employees        $100
   6 to 10 employees       $150
   Over 10 employees       $200
Temporary food registration   $30 (due 2 weeks prior to event)
Registration fees for permanent food establishments are due by January 31 of
each year.
Late registration fee is $5 per day for every day delinquent; not to exceed
$300; fees ordinance for food code violations is as adopted by county.
Nursing Services Fee
Nursing Services                      Fee
Nurse’s schedule:
   Tuesday and Friday only
Child immunizations (anyone less than Free
19 years old)
Lead testing                          Free
Adult immunizations
Flu shots                             Free
Hepatitis A                           $40 ea.
Hepatitis B                           $40 ea.
Meningitis                            Special order-price varies, must be paid
                                      for at time of order
MMR                                   Special order-price varies, must be paid
                                      for at time of order
Tetanus                               $15 ea.
Travel vaccines                       Special order-price varies, must be paid
                                      for at time of order
Tuberculosis testing (PPD)            $10 ea.
Donations for immunizations are accepted by the County Health Department
 
Vital Records      Fee
Birth certificates $10
Death certificates $10
Genealogy          $5
 
(BC Ord. 2007-33, passed 9-4-2007; BC Ord. 2007-43, passed 10-15-2007; BC Ord.
2008-16, passed 6-2-2008; BC Ord. 2019-0050, passed 12-16-2019)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE
§ 40.095 FEES.
   (A)   The following are fees for services relating to emergency medical
services:
 
Life Support Services                     Fee
Advanced life support (ALS)-non-emergency $525 plus loaded miles
Advanced life support(ALS) Level 1        $650 plus loaded miles
Advanced life support(ALS) Level 2        $800 plus loaded miles
Basic life support (BLS)-emergency        $500 plus loaded miles
Basic life support (BLS)-non-emergency    $400 plus loaded miles
Miscellaneous Fee
Miscellaneous                      Fee
Additional EMS technician          $250
Ambulance response no transport    $75
Limited service                    $135
Mileage
   ALS                          $13
   BLS                          $13
Wait time at scheduled appointment $30
 
   (B)   Individuals receiving service are pecuniary liable for all charges
denied coverage under private insurance policy or governmental insurance
policy.
   (C)   Cost schedule.
      (1)   The costs allowed for providing copies as established by § 760 IAC
1-71-3 et seq. is hereby adopted and incorporated in this section.
      (2)   The Owen County Emergency Medical Services (EMS) that receives a
request for a copy of a patient's medical record from a third party shall
charge not more than the following:
         (a)   $1 per page for the first ten pages.
         (b)   $0.50 per page for pages 11 through 50.
         (c)   $0.25 per page for pages 51 and higher.
         (d)   The provider may collect a labor fee not to exceed $20. If the
provider collects a labor fee, the provider may not charge for making and
providing copies of the first ten pages of a medical record.
         (e)   The provider may charge the actual cost of mailing the medical
record.
         (f)   The provider may collect an additional $10 if the request is for
copies to be provided within two working days.
         (g)   The provider may collect a charge not to exceed $20 for
certifying a patient's medical record.
(BC Res. 2014-0009, passed 7-21-2014; BC Ord. 2021-005, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 40.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
40.032 may be subject to a fine of a minimum of $250 per day not to exceed
$2,500. Each day of such unlawful activity constitutes a separate offense. Any
such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties provided for in this code, plus the cost of filing and
reasonable attorney fees. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way
limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this building fee
chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 2020-0049, passed 10-5-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   RECYCLING
      
52.   SEWAGE
      
53.   INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT ZONE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Clay-Owen-Vigo County Joint Solid Waste Management District
Solid Waste Management
   
50.15   Definitions
   
50.16   Authorization
   
50.17   Imposition and remission of fees
   
50.18   Special county solid waste disposal fund and distribution of revenue
Landfill
   
50.30   Definitions
   
50.31   Theft
   
50.32   Trespass
   
50.33   Waste containing paper and other light materials
   
50.34   Permit required
Garbage Haulers
   
50.45   Requirements
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CLAY-OWEN-VIGO COUNTY JOINT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Owen County joins with Clay County and Vigo County to form the Clay-
Owen-Vigo County Joint Solid Waste Management District.
   (B)   The agreement governing the operation of the Clay-Owen-Vigo County
Joint Solid Waste Management District dated June 24, 1991 and attached to the
ordinance codified herein as Exhibit “A” is approved as if set out at length
herein.
   (C)   (1)   Any proposed solid waste management facility that is required to
obtain a state permit or registration, prior to applying for any state permit
or registration, must provide to the Board of Commissioners written
certification from the Clay-Owen-Vigo Solid Waste Management District that the
proposed facility is needed, and consistent with the district solid waste
management plan.
      (2)   The Commissioners may, at their discretion, convene a public
hearing to allow public review and comment regarding the information submitted
under division (C)(1) above. The Commissioners will within 30 days determine if
the facility shall be allowed to submit the application for a state permit or
registration, based upon the findings of the Clay-Owen-Vigo Solid Waste
Management District and the Board of Commissioners determination of whether the
proposed facility will promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
the county.
      (3)   Any proposed solid waste management facility to be located in the
county must comply with this section in addition to all provisions of the
zoning regulations.
(BC Ord. 1991-5, passed 6-24-1991; BC Ord. 2006-19, passed 11-20-2006)
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
§ 50.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The board of directors of a solid waste management district
established under I.C. 13-19.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Management
appointed under I.C. 13-13-1.
   COMPOSTING. An aerobic degradation process by which plant and other organic
wastes decompose under controlled conditions to produce a usable product.
   COST. As applied to a facility or any part of a facility, includes the
following:
      (1)   The cost of construction, modification, decommissioning, disposal
or acquisition of the facility or any part of the facility;
      (2)   Financing charges;
      (3)   Interest before and during construction and for a reasonable period
after the construction as determined by the Board;
      (4)   The cost of funding the reserves to secure the payment of principal
and interest on bonds issued by the district;
      (5)   The cost of funding an operation and maintenance reserve fund;
      (6)   The cost of funding a major repair or replacement fund;
      (7)   Legal and underwriting expenses;
      (8)   Municipal bond insurance premiums;
      (9)   The cost of plans, specifications, surveys and estimates of costs
and revenues;
      (10)   Other expenses necessary or incidental to determining the
feasibility or practicability of constructing the facility;
      (11)   Administrative expenses; and
      (12)   Other expenses necessary or incidental to the construction,
modification or acquisition of the facility, the financing of the construction,
modification or acquisition, and the placing of the facility in operation.
   COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT or COUNTY DISTRICT. A solid waste
management district established under I.C. 13-19 that consists of only one
county.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Environmental Management established under
I.C. 13-13-2.
   DEVELOPER. A person that:
      (1)   Proposes to enter into or has entered into a financing agreement
with the district for financing a facility; and
      (2)   Proposes to enter into or has entered into a separate agreement
with some other person for the use and operation of the financed facility.
   DISTRICT. A county district or joint district.
   DISTRICT PLAN. A district solid waste management plan adopted under I.C. 13-
21-5.
   ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY COMMISSION. The Environmental Policy Commission
established under state law.
   FACILITY. Any facility, plant, works, system, building, structure,
improvement, machinery, equipment, fixture or other real or personal property
of any nature that is to be used, occupied or employed for the collection,
storage, separation, processing, recovery, treatment, marketing, transfer or
disposal of solid waste.
   FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITY.
      (1)   (a)   A landfill;
         (b)   An incinerator; or
         (c)   A waste-to-energy facility.
      (2)   The term does not include a transfer station.
   FINANCING AGREEMENT. Includes an agreement between a district and a
developer, between a developer and a user, or among a district, developer and
user concerning:
      (1)   Payments to the district under the agreement; and
      (2)   Any of the following:
         (a)   The financing of facilities;
         (b)   The title to facilities; and
         (c)   The possession of facilities.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Solid waste that:
         (a)   Is generated by households in the county waste district; and
         (b)   Consists of or contains materials that are ignitable, corrosive,
reactive or toxic.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a MATERIAL is:
         (a)   Ignitable if the material has the quality of ignitability (as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21);
         (b)   Corrosive if the material has the quality of corrosivity (as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.22);
         (c)   Reactive if the material has the quality of reactivity (as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.23); and
         (d)   Toxic if the material has the quality of EP toxicity (as defined
in 40 C.F.R. § 261.24).
   INCINERATOR. The meaning set forth in I.C. 13-11-2-106.
   JOINT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT or JOINT DISTRICT. A solid waste
management district established under I.C. 13-19 that consists of two or more
counties.
   LANDFILL.
      (1)   A solid waste management disposal facility at which solid waste is
deposited on or in the ground as an intended place of final location.
      (2)   The term does not include the following: a site that is devoted
solely to receiving one or more or this following:
         (a)   Fill dirt; and
         (b)   Vegetative matter subject to disposal as a result of
landscaping, yard maintenance, land clearing or any combination of activities
referred to in this division (2)(b).
   NET REVENUES. The amount of revenues received by the district from the
operation and ownership of facilities less the reasonable expenses of the
operation, repair and maintenance of the facilities.
   PERSON. The meaning set forth in I.C. 13-11-2-158.
   PROCESSING. An operation for the purpose of modifying the characteristics or
properties of solid waste to facilitate the transportation of solid waste, the
disposal of solid waste or the recovery of solid waste for reuse or sale.
   PUBLIC NOTICE.
      (1)   For a county or a county district a notice published by the board
in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, following procedures applicable to a county; and
      (2)   For a joint district, a notice published by the board in each
county in the district in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
   RECYCLING. A process by which materials that would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated or processed, and converted into materials or
products for reuse or sale.
   REVENUES.
      (1)   The amounts received by the district from the operation or
ownership of facilities.
      (2)   The term does not include amounts derived from the levy of taxes or
from fees under I.C. 13-21-13.
   SOLID WASTE. The meaning set forth in I.C. 13-11-2-205, except that the
term, does not include the following:
      (1)   A waste that is regulated under the following:
         (a)   I.C. 13-22-1 through 13-22-8; and
         (b)   I.C. 13-22-13 through 13-22-14.
      (2)   An infectious waste (as defined in I.C. 16-41-16-4) that is
disposed of at an incinerator permitted under rules adopted by the board to
dispose of infectious waste.
   SOLID WASTE HAULER or HAULER. A person who operates a vehicle in which solid
waste is transported to:
      (1)   A transfer station for further transport to a final disposal
facility; or
      (2)   A final disposal facility.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The meaning set forth in I.C. 13-11-2-209.
   SOURCE REDUCTION. A reduction in the amount of solid waste generated that is
achieved through actions affecting the source of the solid waste.
   STATE PLAN. The state solid waste management plan adopted under I.C. 13-21-
1.
   TRANSFER STATION.
      (1)   A facility to which solid waste in transferred from a vehicle or a
container to another vehicle or container for transportation.
      (2)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   A facility where the solid waste has been generated by the
facility; or
         (b)   A recycling facility.
   USER. A person that has entered into a financing agreement with the
district, or with a developer, in contemplation of the user’s use and operation
of the facilities referred to in the agreement.
   WASTE-TO-ENERGY FACILITY. A facility at which solid waste is converted into
energy or another useful product by incineration.
   WHITE GOODS. Discarded refrigerators, ranges, water heaters and other
similar domestic and commercial large appliances.
(BC Ord. 91-6, passed 10-28-1991)
§ 50.16 AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 13-19; and
said state code section is the controlling authority herefor.
(BC Ord. 91-6, passed 10-28-1991)
§ 50.17 IMPOSITION AND REMISSION OF FEES.
   (A)   A fee is imposed on the disposal or incineration of solid waste in a
final disposal facility in the county as follows:
      (1)   For solid waste delivered to a final disposal facility in a motor
vehicle (including a passenger motor vehicle) having a registered gross weight
of no more than 200 pounds: $1 minimum per vehicle;
      (2)   For solid waste delivered to a final disposal facility in a motor
vehicle (including a passenger motor vehicle) of more than 200 pounds: $20 per
ton over 200 pounds, pro rated;
      (3)   For compacted solid waste delivered to a final disposal facility:
$15 per ton over 200 pounds, pro rated;
      (4)   For solid waste generated by the demolition or remodeling of a
structure: $10 per ton over 200 pounds, pro rated;
      (5)   For automobile tires in any category above, an additional charge of
$1 per tire, in addition to the per-ton charge;
      (6)   For truck tires in any category above, an additional charge of $2
per tire, in addition to the per-ton charge;
      (7)   For tractor tires in any category above, an additional charge of $5
per tire, in addition to the per-ton charge;
      (8)   For refrigerators with the freon gas removed, an additional charge
of $5 per refrigerator, in addition to the per-ton charge; and
      (9)   Refrigerators with the freon gas not removed will not be accepted
for disposal.
   (B)   For each fee collected, the final disposal facility operator, manager
or agent shall issue a receipt, and maintain a record of the fees collected;
and a copy of the record shall be provided to the County Auditor each month for
use in determining the distribution of fees collected.
   (C)   All fees collected shall be remitted to the County Auditor monthly and
shall be separately reported on the Report of Collections, General Form 362.
(BC Ord. 91-6, passed 10-28-1991; Ord. 1993-9, passed 10-12-1993)
§ 50.18 SPECIAL COUNTY SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FUND AND DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall receipt the solid waste fees into a fund
entitled County Solid Waste Fund; however, a separate depository account is not
required.
   (B)   For each fee collected, the County Auditor shall disburse to the state
the sum of $0.50 for depositing in the State Solid Waste Management Fund. Also
for each fee collected, the County Auditor shall disburse to the local solid
waste district the sum of $0.50 for depositing in the local Solid Waste
District Fund. The remainder of revenue collected shall be retained in the
County Solid Waste Fund for the benefit and use of the county as determined by
the County Council.
   (C)   The operator of the final disposal facility shall provide a copy of
his or her record of collection of fees on a monthly basis to the County
Auditor for use in determining distribution of revenue.
(BC Ord. 91-6, passed 10-28-1991)
LANDFILL
§ 50.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXERT CONTROL OVER PROPERTY.
      (1)   To obtain, take, carry, drive, lead away, conceal, abandon, sell,
convey, encumber or possess property, or to secure, transfer or extend a right
to property.
      (2)   Under this subchapter, a person’s control over property of another
person is UNAUTHORIZED if it is exerted:
         (a)   Without the other person’s consent;
         (b)   In a manner or to an extent other than that to which the other
person has consented;
         (c)   By creating or confirming a false impression in the other
person;
         (d)   By promising performance that the person knows will not be
performed; or
         (e)   By expressing an intention to damage the property or impair the
rights of any other person.
   PROPERTY. Anything or item of any kind or nature whatsoever deposited in the
county landfill of Owen County, Indiana, by any person in the usual, ordinary
and routine affairs of availing themselves of the services of a municipal
landfill or any other tool, machine or other item or thing brought to the
county landfill by the county or by any of its agents or employees to be used
in connection with the fulfillment of the landfill operation.
(BC Ord. 1979-1, passed 6-18-1979)
§ 50.31 THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly or intentionally exert
unauthorized control over property of the county at the county landfill, with
intent to deprive the county of any part of its value or use.
(BC Ord. 1979-1, passed 6-18-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 TRESPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly or intentionally enter into
the county landfill site after official hours or when an attendant is not on
duty; or to enter upon the landfill site after being refused permission to do
so.
(BC Ord. 1979-1, passed 6-18-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 WASTE CONTAINING PAPER AND OTHER LIGHT MATERIALS.
   (A)   All waste delivered to the county landfill consisting of paper or
other light materials which are not compacted and are capable of being moved by
ordinary breezes shall be packaged and sealed in such a way as to prevent its
escape and subsequent dispersal. Waste that is not packaged in the manner
required will not be accepted at the landfill.
   (B)   Such packaging may be sacks, bags, boxes or any other container which
will prevent the escape of waste and is not of a form or size that would be
unreasonably cumbersome for the landfill operator to handle.
(BC Ord. 1995-8, passed 5-22-1995) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after December 23, 1988, no person shall construct or operate
any sort of solid waste or hazardous waste disposal or storage facility,
landfill, incinerator or dump in the county, except the present county sanitary
landfill, without first obtaining a permit to engage in such activity from the
County Commissioners and then maintaining such permit unrevoked under the laws,
rules and regulations of the state and under such regulations as may be
promulgated from time to time by the County Commissioners.
   (B)   In order to secure such permit, the applicant must satisfy all of the
standards set by the laws, rules and regulations of the state to the
satisfaction of the County Commissioners.
   (C)   In addition to the above standards the County Commissioners will
consider the following matters in determining whether to issue the permit
applied for:
      (1)   The effect on existing and potential uses of adjoining property;
      (2)   The effect on the general traffic flow in the area due to increased
traffic flow;
      (3) The beneficial effect of any increased employment or improved
economic potential of the county;
      (4)   Whether the facility would be constructed, operated and maintained
so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing and
intended character of the general vicinity;
      (5)   Whether the facility would be hazardous or disturbing to planned
neighboring uses;
      (6)   Whether such facility would be served adequately by essential
public facilities and services such as highways, streets, police and fire
protection, drainage structures, water and sewage;
      (7)   Whether such facility would create excessive additional
requirements at public cost;
      (8)   Whether such facility would involve uses, activities, processes,
materials, equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to
any person, property or the general welfare by reason of excessive production
of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare, odors or potential ground water
contamination; and
      (9)   Whether such facility would constitute a danger to the health and
welfare of the residents of the county.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued under this subchapter until the County
Commissioners hold a public hearing on the application and all interested
parties have an opportunity to be heard.
   (E)   A person who constructs or operates a solid waste or hazardous waste
facility in the county without having obtained a permit as required herein or
who fails to comply with all laws, rules and regulations in the operation of
such a facility shall be in violation of this subchapter and the County
Attorney shall immediately, upon notice of such violation, bring an action in
the circuit court in the name of the County Commissioners for an injunction,
abatement or any other appropriate action against such violator.
(BC Ord. 1988-7, passed 12-23-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
GARBAGE HAULERS
§ 50.45 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every commercial garbage hauler carrying garbage and other debris in
an open truck across the roads and highways of the county shall include a
tarpaulin cover of sufficient size to completely cover the truck bed.
   (B)   Such tarpaulin shall be securely fastened so as to prevent garbage and
other debris, whether in or out of bags or containers, from escaping the truck
bed, and so causing damage or inconvenience to travelers upon the county roads
or highways, or to neighboring landowners, or to lands owned by the county.
   (C)   Such tarpaulin shall remain securely fastened upon the truck at all
times it remains within the county, except for purposes of loading or unloading
garbage and other debris.
   (D)   No commercial trash hauler shall be permitted to unload garbage or
other debris at the county landfill unless it complies with this section.
(BC Ord. 1993-11, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found to be violating any provision of
§§
50.30 through
50.34 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $100.
   (C)   Violation of §
50.45 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 per violation.
(BC Ord. 1979-1, passed 6-18-1979; BC Ord. 1993-11, passed 11-8-1993)
CHAPTER 51: RECYCLING
Section
   
51.01   No mandatory plan established
   
51.02   Recycling manager/operator
   
51.03   Contract to carry out purposes of chapter
   
51.04   Definitions
   
51.05   Acceptable items
   
51.06   Items not accepted
   
51.07   Separation of recyclable materials and preparation standards
   
51.08   Fees
   
51.09   Anti-scavenging
   
51.10   Funds received
§ 51.01 NO MANDATORY PLAN ESTABLISHED.
   It is the intent of the County Board of Commissioners that there is no
mandatory recycling plan established in the county in the absence of voter
petition and election; therefore, participation in this plan shall be
voluntary.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 51.02 RECYCLING MANAGER/OPERATOR.
   The County Board of Commissioners may hire a recycling center manager/
operator whose responsibility will be to manage the county recycling program
established under this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 51.03 CONTRACT TO CARRY OUT PURPOSES OF CHAPTER.
   The County Board of Commissioners hereby delegated the authority to operate
the county recycling center and to contract with such entities as it deems
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 51.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Any discarded materials resulting from handling, processing,
storage or consumption of food.
   GLASS. Food grade glass bottles, jars and containers and does not include
window glass, drinking glasses, Pyrex, chemical bottles, lightbulbs or other
non-container glass.
   GOOD FAITH. Reasonable efforts to adhere to the policies, standards and
rules of this chapter.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE/HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Those wastes or substances defined by
statute as being hazardous.
   LEAD-ACID BATTERIES. Automotive and related batteries that are comprised of
lead plates with an acid electrolyte and does not include nickel-cadmium
batteries, dry cell (flashlight) batteries or batteries used in calculators,
watches, hearing aids or similar devices.
   MAGAZINES. Glossy print materials including catalogs.
   MAJOR APPLIANCE. Residential or commercial air conditioner, clothes dryer,
clothes washer, dishwasher, freezer, microwave oven, oven refrigerator,
furnace, boiler, humidifier, stove, water heater or any other item commonly
referred to as a household good.
   METAL CANS. Tin coated steel cans, bi-metal cans and aluminum cans used for
food and other non-hazardous materials, but excluding aerosol cans and cans
that held paint, paint-related products, pesticides or other toxic or hazardous
substances.
   NEWSPAPERS. Matter printed on newsprint including daily or weekly
publications and advertising materials but excludes glossy paper, magazines,
catalogs or other similar materials.
   NON-RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. All items of waste not recyclable except hazardous
waste or hazardous substances.
   OVERSIZE AND BULKY WASTE. Large items such as furniture, mattresses,
carpeting, construction or demolition of materials of substantial dimensions,
brush and other large items whose proportions are not easily reduced.
   PREPARATION STANDARDS. Criteria provided establishing acceptable good faith
limits for introduction of materials into the recycling center involving
transport to the recycling center
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Identified materials meeting preparation standards and
shall include the following: aluminum cans; glass; paper; cardboard; and
plastic. Also other materials determined to have economical markets available.
   REFUSE. Combustible and non-combustible materials, including, but not
limited to: paper products, wood, metal, glass, cloth and products thereof in
unrecoverable conditions; litter and street rubbish not including yard waste;
uncontaminated ashes; and building materials such as wood, concrete, glass,
plaster and other intermixed materials produced in construction or demolition
of structures.
   TIRES. Any rubber tires from vehicles, farm equipment and the like.
   WASTE OIL. Any contaminated petroleum-derived or synthetic oil including,
but not limited to, the following: engine and other mechanical lubricants;
hydraulic and transmission fluid; metalworking fluid; insulating fluid; and/or
coolant.
   WASTE TIRES. A tire that is no longer usable for its original intended
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, yard and garden debris, including
vegetative material.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 51.05 ACCEPTABLE ITEMS.
   In accordance with this chapter, the county recycling center will accept the
following items:
   (A)   Recyclables such as cardboard, paper, food grade glass, magazines,
metal cans, aluminum cans, newspapers and any other recyclable material;
   (B)   Garbage;
   (C)   Major appliances;
   (D)   Waste tires, so long as the tire is whole. The recycling center will
not take portions of tires or tires with major cuts;
   (E)   Television consoles;
   (F)   Computer towers/monitors. The recycling center is not responsible for
the removal of any sensitive or personal information contained on the computer.
It is the responsibility of the owner to remove such data prior to recycling;
   (G)   Mattresses/boxsprings;
   (H)   Furniture such as chairs and couches;
   (I)   Roofing shingles;
   (J)   Construction debris; and
   (K)   Lead acid batteries.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 51.06 ITEMS NOT ACCEPTED.
   In accordance with this chapter, the county recycling center will not accept
the following items:
   (A)   Paint;
   (B)   Refuse;
   (C)   Waste oil;
   (D)   Yard waste;
   (E)   Oversize and bulky waste;
   (F)   Hazardous waste or hazardous substance; and
   (G)   Light bulbs: all styles.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 51.07 SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS AND PREPARATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All materials shall be separated according to their type.
   (B)   Persons shall make good faith efforts to ensure recyclables and
recycling containers are well-drained and reasonably clean.
   (C)   Caps from containers shall be removed.
   (D)   Recyclables shall be bagged or otherwise contained and shall not
exceed 50 pounds in weight.
   (E)   All garbage must be properly bagged. No loose garbage will be
accepted.
   (F)   Hard book covers must be removed prior to recycling.
   (G)   The county recycling center reserves the right to refuse any item or
customer for failure to abide by the provisions of this section.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 FEES.
Item Fee
Item                                               Fee
Boxsprings                                         $10
Chair                                              $5
Computer towers/monitors                           $10
Construction debris - no hazardous materials
   Large truck-debris not exceeding height of be$40*
   Medium truck-debris not exceeding height of b$30*
   Small track-debris not exceeding height of be$20*
   Trailer                                      $40*
   Truck and trailer                            $60*
Garbage
   33 gallon or less                            $1 per bag
   33 gallon or more                            $2 per bag
Major appliances                                   No charge
Mattresses                                         $10
Passenger tires (over 19 in.)                      $5
Passenger tires (up to 19 in.)                     $2
Shingles                                           $40 per sq. yd.
Sofa/loveseat                                      $10
Televisions-all sizes                              $15
Tractor tires                                      $10
*   Any loads exceeding 6 inches or more above bed height will be charged an
additional $20
 
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 51.09 ANTI-SCAVENGING.
   Persons (including persons employed by the county recycling center) shall
not pilfer recyclables or disturb recyclables once those materials are placed
for collection. All recyclable materials placed for collection pursuant to this
chapter shall hereupon become the property of the county. Only persons
authorized by the county shall collect or handle recyclable materials once
those materials have been placed appropriately for collection.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 FUNDS RECEIVED.
   All funds received by the Recycling Department, from whatever source, shall
be deposited into a Recycling Department account with unexpected funds not
reverting to the General Fund at the end of the fiscal year.
(BC Ord. 2015-00014, passed 7-6-2015)
CHAPTER 52: SEWAGE
Section
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Registration
   
52.03   Private sewage systems
   
52.04   Permits and inspection
   
52.05   Appeals
   
52.06   Notices
   
52.07   Fees
Fees
   
52.20   Inspection fee for existing septic systems
   
52.21   Septic system installation and repair fee
 
   
52.99   Penalty
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABS. Acrylonitrilc-butadiene styrene.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BOARD. The state or local board of health.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the State Board of Health or his or her
legally authorized representative.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX. A structure designed to distribute effluent by gravity
from a septic tank equally into pipes of an absorption system connected
thereto.
   DRAINAGEWAY. The channel portion of the landscape in which surface water or
rainwater runoff gathers intermittently to flow to a lower elevation.
   DWELLING. Any house or place used or intended to be used as a place of
seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for one or two families.
   FILL. Soil transported and deposited by humans, as well as soil recently
transported and deposited by natural erosion forces. FILL is evidenced by one
or more of the following:
      (1)   No soil horizons or indistinct soil horizons;
      (2)   Depositional stratification;
      (3)   Presence of a soil horizon which has been covered;
      (4)   Materials in a horizon such as cinders or construction debris; and/
or
      (5)   Position in the landscape.
   FOUNDATION DRAIN. The portion of residential drainage system provided to
drain only ground water from outside of the foundation of the house or from
under the basement floor.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The health officer of the local board of health or his or
her duly authorized agent.
   LOADING RATE. The allowable rate of application of septic tank effluent to
the soil. It is expressed in gallons per day per square foot.
   OWNER. The owner of a dwelling or his or her agent.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate or any other legal entity, its or their
successors or assigns or agents of the aforesaid.
   PVC. Polyvinyl chloride.
   RESIDENTIAL DRAIN. The horizontal piping in a house drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and drainage pipes inside the walls of
the house and conveys the same to the residential sewer.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. All equipment and devices necessary for
proper conduction, collection storage, treatment and on-site disposal of sewage
from a one- or two-family dwelling. Included within, but not limited to the
scope of this definition, are residential sewers, septic tanks, soil absorption
systems, temporary sewage holding tanks and sanitary vault privies.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM FAILURE. A residential sewage disposal
system which exhibits one or more of the following:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design
application thereby interfering with the normal use of residential plumbing
fixtures;
      (2)   Effluent discharges exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil,
resulting in ponding, seepage or other discharge of the effluent to the ground
surface or to surface waters; and/or
      (3)   Effluent is discharged from the system causing contamination of a
potable water supply, ground water surface waters.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWER. The horizontal piping beginning two feet outside the
house which carries discharges from the residential drain to its connection
with sanitary sewerage system or a residential sewage disposal system.
   SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A sewer or a system of sewers which convey sewage
away from the lot on which it originates to a wastewater treatment facility
owned and operated by an incorporated city or town, conservancy district,
regional sewer district or private facility.
   SCS. The United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service.
   SDR. Standard dimension ratio.
   SEPTIC TANK. A water-tight structure into which sewage is discharged for
settling and solids digestion.
   SEWAGE. All water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes.
   SLUDGE. The digested or partially digested solid material accumulated in a
septic tank.
   SOIL ABSORPTION. A process which utilizes the soil to treat and dispose of
effluent from a septic tank.
   SOIL ABSORPTION SYSTEM. Pipes laid in a system of trenches or elevated beds
into which the effluent from the septic tank is discharged for soil absorption.
   SOIL HORIZON. A layer of soil or soil material approximately parallel to the
land surface and different from the adjacent genetically related layers in
physical, chemical and biological properties or characteristics, such as color,
structure, texture, consistency, kinds and numbers of organisms present, and
degree of acidity or alkalinity.
   SOIL PROFILE ANALYSIS. The observation and evaluation of the physical
characteristics of the soil horizons or layers to a depth of at least five feet
or, if shallower, to a layer which cannot be readily penetrated.
   SOIL SCIENTIST. An individual with a baccalaureate decree with a major in
agronomy, soils or a closely allied field of science who is proficient in the
application of the principles of pedology to soil; classification
investigation, education and consultation and on the effect of measured,
observed and interfered soil properties and their use.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991)
§ 52.02 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall maintain a register of all persons engaged in
or intending to engage in the installation, construction or repair of sewage
disposal systems or equipment within the county.
   (B)   Any person engaged in or intending to engage in the installation,
construction or repair of sewage disposal systems or equipment in the county
must first make application to the Health Officer to have his, her or their
name placed upon a contractors’ register, a register of those engaged in the
installation, construction and repair of sewage disposal systems or equipment.
The application which will be provided by the County Board of Health shall
contain the name and address of the person, firm or corporation and such other
information as the Health Officer may reasonably require to aid him or her in
the administration and enforcement of this subchapter and regulations adopted
pursuant hereto. Failure of any person engaged in, or intending to engage in
the installation, construction or repair of sewage disposal systems or
equipment in the county to first make application to the Health Officer to have
his, her or their names placed upon the contractors’ register shall constitute
a violation of this subchapter and subject such violator to the penalties
prescribed herein.
   (C)   Any person making application to have a name placed on the
contractors’ register shall submit with such application a fee as set forth in
the current fee schedule approved by the Board of Commissioners of the county.
Placement of the name of any person, firm or corporation on the contractors’
register shall be valid for a term of one year beginning January 1 and expiring
December 31 of the same year and shall be renewed annually.
   (D)   The Health Officer may remove the name of any person from the
contractors’ register who has, in the opinion of the Health Officer,
demonstrated inability or unwillingness to comply with this subchapter or the
rules and regulations adopted hereunder. Such person may request that his or
her name or the name of his or her firm be reinstated on said register by the
Health Officer after satisfactorily demonstrating ability or willingness to
comply with this subchapter and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder.
   (E)   The person causing his or her name or the name of a firm, partnership,
association or corporation to be placed upon the contractors’ register or a
person approved by the Health Officer must be present at all times that work is
being performed in the installation of sewage disposal systems or equipment in
conformity with this subchapter and the rules and regulations adopted
hereunder.
   (F)   No registration or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoked on
arbitrary or capricious grounds.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a municipal system is not available, all persons building a
residence for occupancy or placing a mobile home, manufactured housing,
recreational vehicle or apartments shall install a sewage disposal system that
meets the minimum requirements established by the County Health Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or allow to run
on the ground any sewage on public or private property within the county.
   (C)   All private residential sewage disposal systems and privies shall be
installed, constructed and maintained in an approved manner and meet the
minimum requirements as contained in the State Board of Health Rule 410 I.A.C.
6-8.3. Copies of said Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 are hereby incorporated by
reference as part of this section and two copies are filed in the office of the
County Auditor and County Health Department for public inspection.
   (D)   (1)   In order to be considered for a private sewage disposal system,
a proposed site must have room for the approved septic absorption field and an
additional area, approved by the County Health Department, set aside for
installation of a second septic absorption field, to be utilized as deemed
necessary should the primary field become unable to service the residential
needs or it is necessary to repair the primary system.
      (2)   A variance to the dual field requirement may be granted by the
County Commissioners, in its sole discretion, if the applicant:
         (a)   Requests the variance in writing;
         (b)   Presents clear and convincing evidence to support such variance;
         (c)   1.   Presents clear and convincing evidence that the variance
will present no significant risk that sewage will flow off-site, pollute ground
water or create a health hazard; and
            2.   The cost of installation and maintenance will not, in and of
itself, constitute a special condition justifying a variance.
         (d)   Individual lots in a subdivision for which plats have already
been approved by the Board of Commissioners are exempt from this provision of
the subchapter. However, said lots must comply with any other applicable
ordinances.
   (E)   In order to be considered for a private sewage disposal system, the
County Health Department shall order such soil testing as needed depending on
the size of the proposed site, soil conditions, location of dwelling units,
number, location of other proposed sites and similar considerations and if soil
testing is required then the proposed site must have been inspected by a
certified soil scientist and their report filed with the County Board of
Health.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991; BC Ord. 2000-3A, passed - -2000; BC Ord.
2000-3, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of any public, commercial or
business building or private residence where a private sewage disposal system
or privy is to be installed or where any alteration, repair or addition to an
existing private sewage disposal system is planned, the owner or agent of the
owner shall first make application in writing for and obtain a permit from the
Health Officer authorizing commencement of the proposed construction. Such
application shall be made on a form provided by the County Health Department;
and the applicant, in order to show that the contemplated construction complies
with the provisions of this subchapter may supplement the same by such plans,
specifications and other information deemed necessary by the Health Officer.
The applicant shall pay to the County Health Department an application fee
prior to the prior to the site/soil evaluation and an additional permit fee
prior to issuance of a permit; said fees to be in the amounts set forth in the
current fee schedule approved by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall, upon receipt of any application pursuant to
division (A) above, forthwith examine the same and the site/soil evaluation and
any and all documents and information tendered supplementary thereto. If, after
such examination, the Health Officer shall find such application and proposed
construction to be in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, he or
she shall issue a permit in writing authorizing the applicant to commence
construction in accordance with the application. However, until the proposed
construction is completed in accordance with the application and to the
approval of the Health Officer such permit may be revoked in writing at any
time by the Health Officer and upon such a revocation being made, shall be
considered as if such permit had never been issued in the first instance. The
Health Officer shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Health Officer in writing when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made by
the Health Officer within two working days of the receipt of notice from the
applicant by the Health Officer. Upon request of the Health Officer, the
applicant or the person installing the system will certify in writing that all
construction has been done in accordance with the application.
   (C)   When issued, such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the building where the proposed sewage disposal system is to be
constructed and shall be so posted as to be clearly visible from the road or
public thoroughfare adjacent to the building site.
   (D)   Failure of any person to obtain a permit or otherwise comply with the
requirements of this subchapter shall constitute a violation of this subchapter
and the violator or violators shall be subject to the penalties prescribed
within.
   (E)   Should the Health Officer, after examination of an application for
permit, find the same to be in conflict with any of the terms and provisions of
this subchapter he or she shall, in writing addressed to the applicant, reject
and deny such application and refuse to issue any permit, to commence the
proposed construction.
   (F)   No permit issues hereunder shall pass with the land for which a permit
was granted. Any contract, sale, lease-purchase, forfeiture or other transfer
affecting legal title to real state shall terminate any permit issued hereunder
for the benefit of said real estate.
   (G)   The Health Officer shall maintain a permanent record of the
proceedings filed in the office of the Health Department.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the County Board of Health by any person,
firm or corporation aggrieved or affected by any decision of the Health Officer
rejecting and denying any application or permit to commence construction. Such
appeal shall be taken within ten days after any such decision of the Health
Officer by the applicant filing notice of appeal to the County Board of Health
specifying the grounds thereof. The Health Officer shall forthwith transmit to
the County Board of Health all of the papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken. The County Board of Health upon, receipt of
such notice and record shall forthwith select a reasonable time and place for
the hearing of the appeal and shall give notice in writing to the applicant of
the time and place thereof. The hearing of the appeal may be continued from
time to time, but, following the conclusion of the hearing, a decision on the
appeal shall be rendered within 20 days. Any person may appeal and testify at
any hearing, either in person or by counsel.
   (B)   The County Board of Health shall hear such appeal and may decide the
same where it is alleged that there is error in any decision or determination
made by the Health Officer rejecting or denying an application for a permit to
commence construction and may grant or deny an exception to this subchapter
insofar as the same pertains to such permit.
   (C)   The County Board of Health shall have the power to hear and decide
such a appeal and to grant an exception to the provisions of this subchapter,
to overrule and revise the decision or determination of the Health Officer
appealed from and to issue a permit to commence construction when the granting
of an exception and the issuance of a permit will do substantial justice; or in
harmony with the general purpose, intent and spirit of this subchapter, will
not serve merely as a convenience to the applicant/appellant, but will
alleviate a demonstrable hardship; and at the same time, surrounding property
and the public in general will not be harmed thereby and will be reasonably
protected.
   (D)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the County Board
of Health shall be necessary to reverse any determination or decision of the
Health Officer in rejecting or denying an application for a permit to commence
construction. Every such decision of the County Board of Health shall be
subject to review by certiorari proceedings.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991)
§ 52.06 NOTICES.
   Any person in violation of the provisions of this subchapter shall be served
a written notice by the Health Officer stating the nature of the violation and
providing a time limit for satisfactory correction thereof.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991)
§ 52.07 FEES.
   (A)   All fees mandated by this subchapter shall be collected by the Health
Officer and shall be receipted monthly into the county treasury and be credited
to the County Health Fund for services rendered in administration and enforcing
this subchapter and rules and regulations adopted hereunder.
   (B)   Any registration issued under this subchapter may be temporarily
suspended by the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a period not to
exceed 30 days for interference with the Health Officer or any of his or her
authorized representatives in the performance of their duties.
   (C)   Any person whose registration has been suspended may at any time make
application to the Health Officer for the reinstatement of his or her
registration.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991)
FEES
§ 52.20 INSPECTION FEE FOR EXISTING SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The County Health Department is hereby authorized to collect a fee of
$65 for the inspection of existing septic systems for the purpose of mortgage
requirements, building permits, buyer requests and other considerations.
   (B)   There is hereby created the on-site inspection fee into which fees
collected by the County Health Department from business and citizens for the
inspection of existing septic systems
   (C)   (1)   Collection of fees. The County Health Department shall collect
such fees established as a part of §
52.07.
      (2)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the County Health
Department shall be accounted for in detail for such program service area.
      (3)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the County Health
Department shall be transferred to the County Health Fund. The monies collected
in accord with the provisions of this section shall be used only for the
maintenance or future expansion of the specific program services from which
they are derived.
(BC Ord. 2000-6, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 52.21 SEPTIC SYSTEM INSTALLATION AND REPAIR FEE.
   (A)   The County Health Department is hereby authorized to charge a fee of
$65 for the installation of new septic systems and septic system repairs.
   (B)   There is hereby created the installation and repair fee into which
fees collected by the County Health Department from business and citizens
installing or repairing septic systems.
   (C)   (1)   Collection of fees. The County Health Department shall collect
such fees established as a part of §
52.07.
      (2)   Accounting of fees. All fees collected by the County Health
Department shall be accounted for in detail for each program service area.
      (3)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the County Health
Department shall be transferred to the County Health Fund. The monies collected
in accord with the provisions of this section shall be used only for the
maintenance or future expansion of the specific program services from which
they are derived.
(BC Ord. 2000-5, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person failing to remedy any violation of §§
52.01 through
52.07 as directed by the Health Officer, the Health Officer shall furnish
evidence of the violation to the County Prosecutor having jurisdiction in the
county and he or she shall prosecute all persons violating the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.07.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.07 shall be guilty of an infraction. On conviction, the violator shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and $500 for each day after the
expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary conditions and completing
improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by the Health Officer of the
County Board of Health. Each day a violation continues after such time limit
shall constitute a distinct and separate offense. The penalties for subsequent
offenses shall be increased to $1,000 and $1,000 per day for violations
continuing beyond the time limit.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provision of §§
52.01 through
52.07 shall be and become liable to county for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by reason of such violation.
      (4)   The County Board of Health shall also be entitled to seek any other
legal remedy or redress against any person who shall violate the provisions of
§§
52.01 through
52.07.
(BC Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-28-1991)
CHAPTER 53: INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT ZONE
Section
   
53.01   Designation of an infrastructure development zone
§ 53.01 DESIGNATION OF AN INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT ZONE.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.5-4, the County Commissioners shall
establish an infrastructure development zone.
   (B)   The infrastructure development zone shall incorporate all of the
county, except for the Town of Spencer.
   (C)   The infrastructure development zone shall provide broadband, natural
gas and water services to county residents residing in the infrastructure
development zone.
   (D)   The infrastructure development zone shall include a business personal
property tax exemption available to companies for certain infrastructure
associated with the development of broadband technology, natural gas and water
facilities.
   (E)   The tax exemption for certain infrastructure shall only include the
installation of fiber, natural gas and water facilities to homes, businesses,
schools and publicly owned buildings. The exemption shall not be available for
maintenance and refurbishment to existing facilities, land that the
infrastructure is located on, fiber to cell towers or satellites, or long haul/
pass through fiber infrastructure.
   (F)    The exemption shall only be available to broadband, natural gas and
water infrastructure projects that are completed within six years from the date
of passage of this section, and upon approval of the County Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2018-006, passed 5-21-2018; BC Ord. 2023-007, passed 6-21-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING GENERALLY
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Local option annual excise surtax and wheel tax
County Road Use
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Application to county roadways
   
70.17   Restrictions
   
70.18   Signs
   
70.19   Buses
   
70.20   Permit requirements and procedures
   
70.21   Permit fees
Transportation Emergencies
   
70.35   Definitions
   
70.36   Authorization
   
70.37   Level III hazardous travel watch/advisory
   
70.38   Level II hazardous transportation warning - essential travel permitted
   
70.39   Level I hazardous transportation emergency - travel prohibited
   
70.40   Prohibited parking
   
70.41   Stalled vehicles
   
70.42   Removal, impounding and return of vehicle
   
70.43   Citation
   
70.44   Evidence of violation
   
70.45   Utility companies
Vehicle Inspection
   
70.60   Definitions
   
70.61   Authorization
   
70.62   Imposition and remission of fees
   
70.63   Special Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
70.64   Appropriations
Maximum Vehicle Gross Weight Allowed
   
70.70   Establishment of weight limits on county bridges, causeways, and
viaducts
   
70.71   Reduction of gross load weight allowed on bridge, causeway, or viaduct
by the Indiana Department of Transportation
   
70.72   Fixing gross weight
   
70.73   Posting of signs
   
70.74   Prohibited vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 LOCAL OPTION ANNUAL EXCISE SURTAX AND WHEEL TAX.
   For provisions regarding the annual excise surtax and wheel tax, see §§
36.60 through 36.62 of this code of ordinances.
(CC Ord. 1997-4, passed 6-16-1997; CC Ord. 1998-12A, passed 6-2-1998)
COUNTY ROAD USE
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Fire department vehicles; Police Department
vehicles; ambulances; emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health
and hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22; vehicles designated as emergency
vehicles by the State Department of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1; motor
vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the state emergency
medical services commission that are ambulances that are owned by persons,
firms, limited liability companies or corporations other than hospitals or are
not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services, including
extrication and rescue services as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110; and vehicles of
the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-3, are designated by
the Department of Correction as emergency vehicles and are responding to an
emergency.
   BUS. A motor vehicle or a passenger carrying semitrailer designed for
carrying more than ten passengers exclusive of the driver.
   FARM EQUIPMENT. A motor vehicle or equipment that is designed and used
primarily as a farm implement for drawing implements of agriculture used on a
farm and when using the highways, in traveling from one field or farm to
another of to or from places of repairs.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. All officers of counties, cities or towns as well as all
boards and other public officials of counties, cities or towns.
   LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The meaning set forth in I.C. 9-26-9-2.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled. The term does not include
farm equipment, buses or electric personal assistive mobility device.
   OPERATE. To navigate or otherwise use.
   OPERATOR. A person who drives or is in physical control of a motor vehicle
upon a highway or is exercising control over a steering of a motor vehicle
being towed by a motor vehicle.
   PERMIT. Any kind of document issued by the local authorities authorizing an
individual to operate a motor vehicle on county roadways.
   ROADWAY. The part of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
(BC Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 70.16 APPLICATION TO COUNTY ROADWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to be driven or
operated, on any county roadway within the jurisdiction of the county, a motor
vehicle with a gross weight which exceeds eight tons. This provision excludes
farm equipment, buses, emergency vehicles and/or any other vehicle exempted by
state law.
(BC Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-7-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-1-3(a)(2), the county imposes restrictions as to
the weight of vehicles to be operated upon the following county highways:
      (1)   Stocton (from Coal City Arney to Dalton);
      (2)   Felton;
      (3)   Burke Shiloh;
      (4)   Addie;
      (5)   Switchboard (from Green County Line to Cedar Lane);
      (6)   Porter Ridge;
      (7)   County Line (between Gosport and 46);
      (8)   Beamer Station;
      (9)   McFarren;
      (10)   Stone Mountain;
      (11)   Truesdel;
      (12)   Hancock School (from 231 Hyden);
      (13)   Wallace Junction;
      (14)   Locust Lake;
      (15)   Moore;
      (16)   McCullough;
      (17)   Ponderosa;
      (18)   Hickson Hill (from Jordan Village to Gravel);
      (19)   Thompson;
      (20)   Country Place; and
      (21)   Sherfield.
   (B)   The weight restriction of 30,000 pounds is imposed on the above
mentioned highways for a total period not to exceed 90 days in any one year,
whenever any highway by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic
conditions will be seriously damaged or destroyed without the regulation of
vehicles.
(BC Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-7-2011; BC Ord. 2019-0054, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 70.18 SIGNS.
   The County Highway Department shall erect or cause to be erected and
maintained signs specifying the terms of the ordinance at each end of that part
of any highway affected by this chapter and at intersecting highways. This
chapter may not be enforced until the signs are erected and maintained.
(BC Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-7-2011; BC Ord. 2019-0054, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 70.19 BUSES.
   This chapter does not prohibit the operation of buses that are not more than
45 feet in length on any segment of the primary system (as defined in I.C. 8-
23-1-33) that was in existence June 1, 1991.
(BC Ord. 2019-0054, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 70.20 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any restrictions placed upon the use of a county
roadway created herein or imposed by the County Highway Superintendent, the
County Highway Superintendent, may, at his or her discretion, issue a permit
allowing a motor vehicle, weight, load or size not otherwise permitted, to
operate upon county roadways.
   (B)   In issuing a permit under this section, the County Highway
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Grant a permit that is valid for a single trip, a number of trips
or continuous operation;
      (2)   Establish seasonal or other time limitations on a permit;
      (3)   Establish additional terms, limits or conditions on a permit that
are necessary or desirable for the protection of the roadway and the public
interest;
      (4)   Require the applicant to furnish public liability and property
damage insurance in an amount fixed by the County Board of Commissioners or the
County Highway Superintendent;
      (5)   Require the applicant to furnish indemnity insurance or an
indemnity bond in an amount fixed by the County Board of Commissioners or the
County Highway Superintendent;
      (6)   Indemnify the county, its agents, servants and employees for any
damage to the roadway that may be caused under the permit; and/or
      (7)   Indemnify the county, its agents, servants and employees from any
claim that may arise from the granting of the permit and the use of the county
roadway under the permit.
   (C)   The County Highway Superintendent shall not issue a permit under this
section that is valid for longer than one year.
   (D)   A permit issued under this section may be cancelled at any time at the
discretion of the County
Board of Commissioners and/or the County Highway Superintendent if, upon
satisfactory proof:
      (1)   Violation of any of the terms of the permit;
      (2)   The permit was obtained through misrepresentation in the
application thereof; or
      (3)   The public interest requires cancellation.
   (E)   The operator of any motor vehicle for which a permit has been issued
pursuant to this subchapter shall have said permit in his or her immediate
possession while operating said motor vehicle upon a county roadway and shall
display the same upon demand by any state or local official.
   (F)   A person that violates the provisions of the permit is subject to the
penalties set forth in §
70.99.
(BC Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-7-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 PERMIT FEES.
   All permit fees shall be paid directly to the County Auditor. The permit fee
shall be an amount as determined by the County Highway Superintendent. All fees
received under this section shall be deposited into a fund for use by the
County Highway Department.
(BC Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-7-2011)
TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCIES
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Owen County, Indiana.
   ROADWAY. A publicly maintained right-of-way open for the use of public or
vehicular travel in the unincorporated areas of Owen County, Indiana.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 70.36 AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter shall authorize the Commissioners to declare the existence
or threatened existence of a transportation emergency within the county, so as
to regulate the operation and parking of motor vehicles upon county roadways to
protect the public safety during an emergency situation.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 70.37 LEVEL III HAZARDOUS TRAVEL WATCH/ADVISORY.
   (A)   The Commissioners may issue a Level III hazardous travel watch or
advisory for all or parts of roadways if they agree that current or expected
conditions, including, but not limited to, the presence of fires, floods,
utility failures, major accidents, public health emergencies, thunderstorms,
acts of terrorism, tornadoes and snow storms, ice, freezing rain, sleet, high
water or debris make travel by motor vehicle hazardous.
   (B)   Upon issuance of a watch or advisory under this section, the Sheriff,
Superintendent and Director shall cause the watch or advisory to be broadcast
by means of radio stations broadcasting in the county, on the county website
and may also be communicated by means of newspapers or other means the
officials deem effective.
   (C)   The officials shall terminate the watch or advisory when the
conditions giving rise to the watch or advisory abate. Termination of the watch
or advisory shall be communicated by the means used to communicate the original
watch or advisory.
   (D)   A watch or advisory under this section does not regulate or restrict
travel or parking on the roadways, however schools and businesses may begin to
implement their emergency action plans.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 LEVEL II HAZARDOUS TRANSPORTATION WARNING - ESSENTIAL TRAVEL PERMITTED.
   (A)   (1)   The Commissioners may declare a Level II hazardous
transportation warning for some or all the roadways when in their judgment,
current or expected conditions, including, but not limited to, the presence of
fires, floods, utility failures, major accidents, public health emergencies,
thunderstorms, acts of terrorism, tornadoes and snow storms, ice, freezing
rain, sleet, high water or debris constitute a significant risk of injury or
damage to persons or property or travel may be significantly delayed.
      (2)   By way of example, such conditions may include, but are not limited
to:
         (a)   Roadways which have or are expected to have significant
accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet or snow;
         (b)   Roadways which have or are expected to have blowing or drifting
snow or high water covering large areas of the roadways to a dangerous depth;
         (c)   There are numerous trees, limbs, utility poles and/or power
lines or other damage debris on the roadways; or
         (d)   Roadways or major sections of the roadway network are closed or
impassible.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a Level II hazardous transportation warning is
designated, only essential travel is permitted. Non-essential travel is
prohibited.
      (2)   As used in this section ESSENTIAL TRAVEL includes thee following:
         (a)   Travel to and from work;
         (b)   Travel to obtain essential medical care or required prescription
medicines;
         (c)   Travel to obtain essential supplies of food or fuel;
         (d)   Travel to seek shelter; and
         (e)   Travel of emergency vehicles and emergency workers engages in
emergency operations.
   (C)   Upon issuance of a Level II hazardous transportation warning under
this section, the Commissioners shall cause a Level II hazardous transportation
warning to be broadcast by means of radio stations broadcasting in the county,
on the county website, and may also be communicated by means of newspapers or
other means the officiate deem effective.
   (D)   The Commissioners shall terminate the Level II hazardous
transportation warning when the conditions giving rise to the abatement of the
Level II hazardous transportation warning no longer exists. Termination of the
Level II hazardous transportation warning shall be communicated by the means
used to communicate the original Level II hazardous transportation warning.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 LEVEL I HAZARDOUS TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY - TRAVEL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   The Commissioners may declare a Level I hazardous transportation
emergency for some or all roadways when in their judgment, current or expected
conditions, including without limitation the presence of fires, floods, utility
failures, major accidents, public health emergencies, thunderstorms, acts of
terrorism, tornado and snow storms, ice, freezing rain, sleet, high water or
debris, constitute a crippling emergency event causing a significant risk of
injury or death to motorists, roadway maintenance, emergency or critical
operations personnel.
      (2)   By way of example, such conditions may include:
         (a)   Roadways which have or are expected to have heavy accumulations
of ice, freezing rain, sleet or snow;
         (b)   Roadways which have or are expected to have heavy blowing or
drifting of snow or blizzard conditions;
         (c)   Very high waters that covers or closes large areas of roadways;
         (d)   Washouts of large areas of road surfaces, road beds, culverts,
bridge approaches or bridges;
         (e)   Widespread presence of trees, limbs, utility poles, power lines
and/or other damage or debris on the roadways;
         (f)   Major portions of the roadway network are closed or impassible;
and/or
         (g)   Conditions which make safe operation of roadway maintenance
equipment impossible.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a Level I hazardous transportation emergency is
declared, travel is prohibited and the roadways are closed, except as to
emergency personnel and critical occupations personnel while engaged in
necessary emergency or critical occupations operations.
      (2)   As used in this division (B), EMERGENCY PERSONNEL included rostered
members of law enforcement agencies, fire departments, emergency medical
service providers, search and rescue organizations, rescue squads, military
organizations, disaster relief organizations, emergency management personnel
and requested mutual aid personnel.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), CRITICAL OCCUPATIONS PERSONNEL
includes employees of railroad companies, utility companies, highway
department, towing and wrecker services, fuel delivery suppliers, news media,
and hospital and healthcare organizations.
   (C)   Upon issuance of a Level I hazardous transportation emergency under
this section, the Commissioners shall cause the Level I hazardous
transportation emergency to be broadcast by means of radio stations
broadcasting in the county, on the county website and may also be communicated
by means of newspapers or other means the officials deem effective.
   (D)   The Commissioners shall terminate the Level I hazardous transportation
emergency when the conditions giving rise to the abatement of the Level I
hazardous transportation emergency. Termination of the Level I hazardous
transportation emergency shall be communicated by the means used to communicate
the original Level I hazardous transportation emergency.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Upon declaration of a Level II hazardous transportation warning or a
Level I hazardous transportation emergency, a parking prohibition shall go into
effect for the roadways covered by the declaration. The Commissioners may also
declare a parking prohibition for some or all roadways if they deem it
necessary for snow plowing, debris removal, access for emergency vehicles,
evacuation or other emergency purposes. The prohibition remains in effect until
the Level II hazardous transportation warning or Level I hazardous
transportation emergency is terminated by the Commissioners.
   (B)   While a parking prohibition is in effect, a person may not park the
person’s vehicle or a vehicle under the person’s control or allow such a
vehicle to remain parked on a roadway for which the prohibition is in effect.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 STALLED VEHICLES.
   If a vehicle becomes stalled on a roadway for which a parking prohibition is
in effect, the person operating the vehicle must take immediate action to have
the vehicle removed from the roadway. The person may not abandon the vehicle in
the roadway except for the purpose of securing assistance for the time
necessary to go to a nearby telephone, garage or other place of assistance and
return without delay.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING AND RETURN OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   An employee of the Sheriff’s Department or County Highway Department
may remove a vehicle or have it removed from a roadway to the nearest garage or
other place of safety, including another place on the roadway, or to a facility
maintained by the county if one of the following apply:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a roadway for which parking prohibition is
in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a roadway for which a parking prohibition
is in effect; the vehicle presents a hazard in traffic, snow or debris removal
or emergency operations; and the available evidence does not reasonably suggest
that the operator of the vehicle is attempting to remove it in compliance with
§
70.39; and
      (3)   The vehicle is parked illegally and interferes with snow or debris
removal or emergency operations.
   (B)   If a vehicle is removed under division (A) above, the Department
causing the removal of the vehicle shall provide written notice to the
vehicle’s owner if the Department is able to ascertain the name and the address
of the vehicle’s owner through registration records or otherwise. The notice
shall advise the owner of the fact of removal, the reason for removal and the
place to which the vehicle was removed.
   (C)   If the removing Department is unable to ascertain the name and address
of the vehicle’s owner to provide notice under division (B) above, the
Department shall, within 72 hours of the removal notify the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles of the location and description of the vehicle.
   (D)   To recover a vehicle removed under this section, the owner of the
vehicle must present evidence of the person’s identity and right to possession
of the vehicle to the removing Department or the towing service that removed
the vehicle. In addition, the person must sign a receipt for the return of the
vehicle and pay the costs of the removal and any storage fees. The costs and
fees constitute a lien on the vehicle under I.C. 32-33-10.
   (E)   The removing Department shall maintain a record of each vehicle
removed under this section. The record must include a description of the
vehicle, its license number, the date and time of removal, the place of
removal, the place which it was removed, the reason for removal and, if known,
the name and address of the owner and/or operator. If a towing service obtains
this information on behalf of the removing Department, the towing service shall
provide the record to the Sheriff’s Department.
   (F)   To implement this section, the Sheriff’s Department and the Highway
Department may enter into any contracts with towing services for the removal
and storage of vehicles.
   (G)   The county, Sheriff’s Department, Highway Department, owner or
occupant of the property from which a vehicle is removed, authorized towing
service, automobile scrap yard or other contractor are not liable for loss or
damage to a motor vehicle removed, stored or disposed of under this section.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 70.43 CITATION.
   If a motor vehicle is parked or left without a driver in violation of this
subchapter and is removed or impounded under this subchapter, an officer of the
Sheriff’s Department may issue a traffic summons to the registered owner in the
manner and under the same procedures applicable to other parking violations.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 70.44 EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION.
   In a prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in violation of
this subchapter, proof that the vehicle described in the complaint was parked
or left in violation of this subchapter together with proof that the defendant
named in the complaint was the registered owner of the vehicle at the time of
the violation shall constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the
person who parked the vehicle in violation of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 70.45 UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   If employees of the County Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department
determine that the property of a utility company is obstructing, interfering,
or about to obstruct or interfere, with roadway travel, snow or debris removal,
or emergency operation, the Department that makes the determination shall
notify the utility company of the obstruction or interference.
   (B)   Upon notification, the utility company shall act immediately to render
the property safe and remove the obstruction or interference.
   (C)   The action should include:
      (1)   Timely dispatch of a knowledgeable employee to the site;
      (2)   De-energize or otherwise render the property safe for removal from
the roadway; and
      (3)   Report to the Sheriff’s or Highway Departments when the property
has been rendered safe for removal and co-ordinate removal of the property from
the roadway.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009)
VEHICLE INSPECTION
§ 70.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle and every passenger carrying semitrailer used for
the purpose of carrying passengers on a regular schedule of time and rates
between fixed terminals, and every motor vehicle and every passenger carrying
semitrailer designed for carrying more than ten passengers exclusive of the
driver, except school buses and motor vehicles which are funeral equipment and
are used in the operation of the funeral business.
   DEPARTMENT. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles of this state, acting directly or
through its duly authorized officials and agents.
   FARM MACHINERY. Every grain and bean separator, combine, corn picker,
ensilage cutter, corn sheller, corn shredder, hay raker, manure spreader,
portable saw mill, all well drilling machinery and all seeding, cultivating and
harvesting machinery.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing farm machinery, including plows, mowing machines,
harvesters and other implements of husbandry used on a farm and when using the
public highways in traveling from one field or farm to another, or to or from
places of repairs, and shall be exempt from registration or the display of
license number plates or the payment of any fee. The term shall also include
the wagon, trailer or other vehicle pulled by a farm tractor.
   FARM TRACTOR USED IN TRANSPORTATION. Every farm tractor, including the
wagon, trailer or other vehicle pulled by such tractor, used by the owner or
operator for the transportation, but not for hire, of commodities upon the
public highways, except between farms.
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Special farm machinery and farm machinery an defined
in this section, as well as such other self-propelled equipment, specially
adapted, to be capable of both over-the- road and off-road use, for the
transportation and application of plant food materials or agricultural
chemicals and vehicles designed to transport farm implements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure that:
      (1)   Is assembled in a factory;
      (2)   Bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliancy with the
federal manufactured housing construction and safety standards law (42 U.S.C.
§§ 5401 et seq.);
      (3)   Is designed to be transported from the factory to another site in
one or more units;
      (4)   Is suitable for use as a dwelling in any season; and
      (5)   Is more than 35 feet long.
   MEDICAL SERVICES VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is used or intended to be used
for the purpose of responding to emergency life-threatening situations and
providing emergency transportation service, or any vehicle that is routinely
used to transport patients who are not acutely ill or injured in a life-
threatening manner.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, as defined the definition for VEHICLE, which
is self propelled, except those vehicles which are included in the definitions
for the terms FARM TRACTOR or IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY as defined in this
section.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle, except a farm tractor, or a motorized bicycle,
with motive power having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed
to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A two- or three-wheeled vehicle which may be propelled by
an internal combustion engine or a battery powered motor, and when powered by
an internal combustion engine having a rating of no more than two horsepower
and a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, an automatic
transmission and maximum design speed of no more than 25 mph on a flat surface.
   NEW MOTOR VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Has not been previously titled under I.C. 9-17 and carries a
manufacturer’s certificate of origin; and
      (2)   Has never been transferred by a manufacturer, distributor or dealer
to an ultimate purchaser.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle or any person
renting or leasing a vehicle and having exclusive use thereof for a period
longer than 30 days, or in the event a vehicle is the subject of an agreement
for the conditional sale or lease vested in the conditional vendee or leasee,
or in the event the mortgagor thereof, with the right of purchase upon the
performance of the conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate
right of possession of a vehicle is entitled to possession, then such
conditional vendee or lessee or mortgager shall be deemed to be the OWNER for
the purpose of this subchapter.
   PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying
passengers except a motorcycle, bus or school bus.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every two-wheeled vehicle that is used as a trailer with
bolsters which support the load and does not have a rack or body extending to
the tractor drawing the load.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any regular member of the state police, any regular member
of a city or town police department, any town marshal or town marshal deputy or
any regular member of the County Sheriff’s Department.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle with or without motive power equipped
exclusively for living quarters for persons traveling upon the highways.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus, hack, conveyance or motor vehicle used to transport
school children to and from school and to and from school athletic games or
contests or other school functions; but that every privately owned automobile,
with a capacity of five passengers or less, which is used for the purpose of
transporting school children to and from school is not a SCHOOL BUS.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, designed for carrying
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon, or is carried by, another
vehicle, except every pole trailer, every two-wheeled homemade trailer, and a
semitrailer used exclusively for carrying passengers, as defined under the term
BUS in this section.
   SPECIAL FARM MACHINERY. Every paint spray outfit, all livestock dipping
equipment, and seed cleaning and treating equipment, when mounted and
transported upon a trailer using the public highways.
   STATE. The State of Indiana, unless by this context some other state or
territory or federal district of the United States is meant or intended.
   TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing or
propelling trailers, semitrailers or vehicles of any kind, except a FARM
TRACTOR, FARM TRACTOR USED IN TRANSPORTATION as defined in this section, or a
tractor which is used exclusively for drawing a passenger carrying semitrailer.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property, and designed for being drawn by a motor vehicle, and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle, and including every
pole trailer and every two-wheeled homemade trailer.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human
power, and shall not be construed to include such vehicles as run only on rails
or tracks, vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley
wires, but not operated upon rails or tracks, fire trucks and apparatus owned
by any person or municipal division of the state and used for fire protection,
municipally owned ambulances and police patrol wagons, vehicles not designed
for, or employed in, general highway transportation of persons or property and
occasionally operated or moved over the public highway, including, but not
limited to, road construction or maintenance machinery, movable devices
designed, used or maintained to alert motorists of hazardous conditions on
public highways, construction dust control machinery, well boring apparatus,
ditchdigging apparatus, implements of husbandry and invalid chairs.
(BC Ord. 1991-10, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 70.61 AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 9-17; and said
statutory section is the controlling authority herefor.
(BC Ord. 1991-10, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 70.62 IMPOSITION AND REMISSION OF FEES.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer inspects a vehicle pursuant to I.C. 9-17-2-
12, he or she shall at the time of inspection collect an inspection fee of $5
per each vehicle inspected from the owner thereof or the person requesting said
inspection.
   (B)   For each fee collected, the police officer shall issue a receipt,
General Form No. 352, to the owner of the vehicle or person requesting said
inspection.
   (C)   All inspection fees collected shall be remitted to the County Auditor
monthly and shall be separately reported on the report of collections, General
Form No. 302.
(BC Ord. 1991-10, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 70.63 SPECIAL VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   The County Auditor shall receipt the inspection fees into a fund entitled
Special Vehicle Inspection Fund; however, a separate depository account is not
required.
(BC Ord. 1991-10, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 70.64 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The County Council may appropriate money collected from said inspections for
law enforcement purposes only, including, but not limited to, the continuing
training of the personnel of the Sheriff’s Department of the county.
(BC Ord. 1991-10, passed 11-12-1991)
MAXIMUM VEHICLE GROSS WEIGHT ALLOWED
§ 70.70 ESTABLISHMENT OF WEIGHT LIMITS ON COUNTY BRIDGES, CAUSEWAYS, AND
VIADUCTS.
   The county Highway Superintendent is hereby authorized to establish weight
limits on all county bridges, causeways, and viaducts. Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-7-
1, a vehicle may not be operated or moved over a bridge, causeway, or viaduct
on a highway if the weight of the vehicle is greater than the maximum load that
can be carried with safety to the bridge, causeway, or viaduct.
(Ord. 2020-0014, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.71 REDUCTION OF GROSS LOAD WEIGHT ALLOWED ON BRIDGE, CAUSEWAY, OR VIADUCT
BY THE INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-7-2, the local authority, Owen County, when charged
with the repair or maintenance of a bridge, causeway, or viaduct, may reduce
the gross load on the structure below the maximum load prescribed in I.C. 9-20-
4-1 and I.C. 9-20-5 if the authority determines that the maximum load is
greater than the bridge, causeway, or viaduct can sustain without serious
damage or with safety to the vehicle.
(Ord. 2020-0014, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.72 FIXING GROSS WEIGHT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-4-1(b)(3) and I.C. 9-20-7-2, the county Highway
Department has evaluated all of the bridges, causeways, and viaducts in the
county and has determined a lesser weight limit is required for each structure.
   (B)   Adoption. The provisions contained in Exhibit A entitled “Owen County
Bridges” as attached to Ord. 2020-0014 in its entirety are incorporated and the
maximum load limits as set forth in full in this section establishing the
maximum vehicle gross weight allowed on a county bridge, causeway, or viaduct.
(Ord. 2020-0014, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.73 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The county Highway Superintendent is hereby granted authority to erect signs
indicating the gross weight allowed on a bridge, causeway, or viaduct. Pursuant
to I.C. 9-20-7-3, this subchapter does not take effect until signs indicating
the gross weight allowed on a bridge, causeway, or viaduct are posted in a
conspicuous place at the end of the structure to which the order, resolution,
or ordinance applies. The signs must be legible from a distance of 50 feet and
must be maintained during the time the reduction is in force.
(Ord. 2020-0014, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.74 PROHIBITED VEHICLES.
   (A)   A vehicle may not be moved over a bridge, causeway, or viaduct when
the vehicle’s gross weight is greater than the gross weight allowed on the
bridge, causeway, or viaduct.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drive a
vehicle, which the gross weight exceeds the maximum load limit listed in
Exhibit A, “Owen County Bridges,” as attached to Ord. 2020-0014, on, over, or
across any bridge on any county road in Owen County.
(Ord. 2020-0014, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
70.15 through
70.21 shall be fined no less than $250 and not more than $2,000 for each
offense. An offense shall be deemed committed on each and every time a
violation occurs or continues to occur. The proceeds received from these fines
shall be deposited in the County Highway Fund as the Board of Commissioners
direct.
   (C)   (1) A person who violates any provision of §§
70.35 through
70.45 shall be fined the sum of $100 for the first offense and the sum of not
less than $100 but not more than $2,500 for each subsequent offense thereof.
      (2)   The county may initiate a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of §§
70.35 through
70.45. Any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an
action to recover the penalties provided for in this code, plus the cost of
filing and reasonable attorney fees.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation found to be violating any
provision of §§
70.70 through
70.74 shall be fined at least $250 and not more than $500 for each offense.
      (2)   All fines collected under §§
70.70 through
70.74 shall be deposited in the county Highway Department Bridge Fund: 00900-
1135 for use by the county Highway Department to repair bridges.
(BC Ord. 2009-10, passed 7-20-2009; BC Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-7-2011; BC Ord.
2019-0054, passed 12- 16-2019; Ord. 2020-0014, passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Speed Limits Generally
   
71.01   Speed limit during county road work
   
71.02   Speed limits in clustered residential areas
   
71.03   Speed limits generally
Animal-Drawn Vehicles
   71.10   Definitions
   71.11   License required
   71.12   Application and fee
   71.13   Issuance and term; registration to be carried in vehicle
   71.14   License tag
   71.15   Delivery of fees
   71.16   Slow moving vehicle emblem display
   71.17   Flashing lights requirement
   71.18   Horseshoe requirements
   71.19   Wheel rims
   71.20   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMIT DURING COUNTY ROAD WORK.
   The speed limit on county roads while county employees are working on said
roads shall be five mph if properly posted. The County Highway Department shall
erect signs located at least 500 feet on both sides of the work zone that
indicate there is a work zone or road work ahead and that the speed limit of
five mph.
(BC Ord. 2001-15, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SPEED LIMITS IN CLUSTERED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   All areas in the county comprised of 50 residences in a one-mile area
shall be a CLUSTERED RESIDENTIAL AREA within the meaning of this section.
   (B)   Within all such clustered residential areas, the Board of
Commissioners of the county reserves the right to place a speed limit upon any
roads in the area that are controlled by the county.
   (C)   Such speed limit shall be 30 mph, beginning at the outskirts of such
clustered residential area, and continue through same until the other side has
been reached.
   (D)   Signs stating the speed limit shall be placed by the county in such
clustered residential areas in order to give warning to motorists and
pedestrians alike.
(BC Ord. 1995-11, passed 7-11-1995) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any self-propelled or motor
vehicle on any street, road or highway within the county and not under the
jurisdiction of the state or any incorporated city or town within the county at
a rate of speed in excess of the following maximum limits:
   (A)   Thirty-five mph on any such unpaved or graveled street, road or
highway; and
   (B)   Forty-five miles mph on any such paved street, road or highway
(BC Ord. 1973-1, passed 5-7-1973; BC Ord. 1991-1, passed 2-19-1991; BC Ord.
2005-10, passed 9-19-2005) Penalty, see §
71.99
ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES
§ 71.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY ROAD. Any public vehicular thoroughfare or public way owned,
operated, or maintained by Owen County, Indiana. The term does not include
privately owned and maintained roadways or drives, nor public ways owned,
operated, or maintained by the state or an incorporated municipality.
   HORSE. Has its usual meaning, but also includes similarly employed draft
animals such as mules, ponies, oxen, and the like.
   HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE.
      (1)   A buggy, carriage, dray, wagon, or similar vehicle designed and
intended to use one or more horses as motive power and used for the purpose of
transporting persons or cargo.
      (2)   The term does not include field wagons (i.e., wagons used primarily
for field work and not typically used in the conveyance of persons or
commodities on the roads), nor horse-drawn agricultural implements relative to
the code sections pertaining to fees, but shall include the field wagons and
agricultural implements in sections which pertain to horseshoes.
   OWNER. Any person, individual, partnership, corporation, association, or
quasi-legal entity that owns, rents, leases, or otherwise has primary use or
control over a horse-drawn vehicle.
   OPERATOR. The individual who is present and upon the horse or within the
horse-drawn vehicle at the time a violation of the horseshoe requirements of
this subchapter is observed.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.11 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or for any owner to
permit to be driven, any horse-drawn vehicle upon or across a county road
unless the vehicle is properly licensed as provided herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or for any owner to
permit to be driven, any horse-drawn vehicle upon or across a county road with
an expired numbered metallic tag.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to transfer the numbered metallic tag from one
horse-drawn vehicle to another horse-drawn vehicle, or from one owner to
another owner. No refund of any fees is available on sale.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or for any owner to
permit to be driven, any horse-drawn vehicle upon or across a county road
unless the license registration receipt required herein is in the possession of
the operator or contained on or within the horse-drawn vehicle.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.12 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Any owner of a horse-drawn vehicle wishing to obtain a license to
operate the vehicle on the county roads may apply for the license at the office
of the Owen County Highway Department during their regular office hours.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay, and the Owen County Highway Department or an
authorized designee shall collect, a non-pro-ratable and nonrefundable license
fee of $65 per vehicle at the time application is made, for which the applicant
shall be given a proper registration. The application, and the license itself
when issued, shall include on its face the following:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner;
      (3)   The amount of license fee paid and the receipt number;
      (4)   The expiration date of the license;
      (5)   The signature of the owner; and
      (6)   The number of the license plate/tag.
   (C)   In the event an owner of a horse-drawn vehicle fails to register by
May 31 of the applicable license year or within 30 days of acquiring a new
horse-drawn vehicle, they shall pay a late fee of $25 in addition to the annual
license fee.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.13 ISSUANCE AND TERM; REGISTRATION TO BE CARRIED IN VEHICLE.
   When application is made, fee paid, and all other requirements herein are
fulfilled, the Owen County Highway Department or designee shall prepare and
give to the applicant a written license registration signed and validated by
the Owen County Highway Department or designee. All licenses, irrespective of
when issued, shall be valid only through the next succeeding May 31. The owner
shall cause the license registration be carried in the vehicle at all times
when the same is being driven on county roads.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.14 LICENSE TAG.
   (A)   The Owen County Highway Department shall provide a numbered license
tag for each vehicle licensed as required herein. The tag shall be of sturdy
weather-resistant material suitable for affixture to the rear or left side of
the licensed vehicle in a readily visible location (and shall be so affixed by
the owner), and shall be of sufficient size that it may be easily observed by
law enforcement following at a safe distance or passing the horse-drawn vehicle
in a motor vehicle. The plate or tag shall contain numerical denotations and
color coding to indicate the expiration date of the vehicle's license.
   (B)   In the event that a license or tag is lost, destroyed or otherwise
needs to be replaced, the requesting individual shall sign an affirmation
statement and pay any applicable fees prior to the issuance of a replacement
license and/or tag. The Owen County Highway Department shall collect the sum of
$10 for a replacement license and/or tag.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.15 DELIVERY OF FEES.
   Any license fee, late fee, replacement fee, collected by the Owen County
Highway Department shall be delivered to the Owen County Auditor for deposit.
Collected fees shall be placed in the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund 9175.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.16 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM DISPLAY.
   Consistent with I.C. 9-21-9-2, whenever a horse-drawn vehicle is moved,
operated, or driven on a county road, the vehicle shall display a triangular
slow moving vehicle emblem mounted as near as is practicable to the center of
mass and at an approximate height of not less than three and not more than five
feet from level ground or road surface. The emblem shall be mounted so as to be
entirely visible from the rear, day or night. The emblem and the emblem's
position of mounting on the vehicle must meet the specifications established by
rules adopted by the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.17 FLASHING LIGHTS REQUIREMENT.
   Consistent with I.C. 9-21-9-4, when a horse-drawn is moved, operated, or
driven on a county road at a time or under circumstances during which the use
of lighted lamps on vehicles is required, the horse-drawn vehicle must display,
in addition to the slow moving vehicle emblem, a red or an amber flashing lamp
mounted at a height as low as practicable that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear. The red or amber flashing lamp may be used
at times other than when lighted lamps are required. A double-faced flashing
lamp may be used, displaying amber light to the front and red or amber light to
the rear.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.18 HORSESHOE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   From May 1 until the following October 1, it shall be unlawful for any
person to be an operator of or to cause any horse or horse-drawn vehicle to be
operated on any asphalt, concrete or other hard-surfaced road or highway of the
county, which has been fitted with horseshoes upon which has been applied a
sharp-edged, compounded or mounded material.
   (B)   It is permissible to use a horse which has been fitted with plain
shoes made of steel to which have been added a material no harder than
horseshoe borium.
      (1)   The borium may be mounded, smoothly, in three mound style, no
higher than three-sixteenth-inch with no more than one mound on the toe and a
single mound on each heel of the horseshoe.
      (2)   All mounds will cover the flat area of the toe of the shoe to each
nail crease, and from the taper to the nail crease on each heel.
      (3)   The mounds must be smooth and without sharp edges, and must be
applied to plain, non-toed, non-heeled shoes.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any horseshoe to contain a material harder
than borium or applied in any method not provided herein between May 1 and the
following October 1.
   (C)   It is permissible from October 1 to the following May 1 to substitute
fine drilltec for borium in the same application techniques, conditions and
specifications as were aforementioned for the application of horseshoe borium.
Horseshoes with styles of lumped, compounded, sharp-edged or mounded materials
shall be unlawful, other than as provided herein.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an operator of or to cause
any horse or horse-drawn vehicle to be operated on any newly surfaced,
resurfaced, or repaired county road until sufficient time for pavement curing
has elapsed, as determined from consultation with officials of the Owen County
Highway Department.
   (E)   If any owner or operator of any horse-drawn vehicle refuses to lift
the horse's hoof for a shoe inspection or refuses to take the horse to another
place for inspection shall be considered in violation of this section.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.19 WHEEL RIMS.
   No person shall operate a vehicle on any paved road when said vehicle is
riding upon wheel rims designed for pneumatic tires when said tires are not
also in use.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Owen County Sheriff’s Department to enforce this
subchapter, and any duly qualified and acting law enforcement office serving in
Owen County, Indiana, may enforce the terms of this subchapter. Procedures for
arrest and court appearances shall be in accordance with I.C. 9-30-3, as
amended. Proceedings for ordinance violation enforcement shall be in accordance
with I.C. 34-28-5, as amended.
(BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
71.01 shall be an infraction and subject to the penalties in §
10.99, as amended, or any other such ordinance and procedures for enforcement
and collection of said fines as allowed by state law.
   (C)   (1)   An operator of a motor vehicle exceeding the duly authorized
speed limit set forth in §
71.03 on county roads shall be subject to a fine of $75 per violation.
      (2)   The County Sheriff is authorized to enforce the duly authorized
speed limits on county roads by citing those operators of motor vehicles
observed exceeding the speed limits with an ordinance violation, assessing them
the fine above.
      (3)   Said fine upon payment by the operator shall be deposited by the
County Auditor into the funds set forth below:
 
County Road Sign Fund #292           $25
Sheriff Fuel Reimbursement Fund #297 $50
 
      (4)   The County Attorney is authorized to represent the County
Commissioners in prosecuting operators of motor vehicles cited by the Sheriff
in all legal actions necessary to collect the fines for violation of the duly
authorized speed limits on county roads. The operator is liable for all costs
incurred by the county for prosecution to collect said fines including, but not
limited to, court costs and attorney fees.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   An operator of a motor vehicle exceeding the duly posted
and authorized speed limit on county roads in excess of one mph but less that
11 mph commits an infraction punishable and subject to a fine and court costs
of $87;
         (b)   An operator of a motor vehicle exceeding the duly posted and
authorized speed limit on county roads in excess of 11 mph but less that 21 mph
commits an infraction punishable and subject to a fine and court costs of $102;
and
         (c)   An operator of a motor vehicle exceeding the duly posted and
authorized speed limit on county roads in excess of 21 mph but less that 21 mph
commits an infraction punishable and subject to a fine and court costs of $127.
      (2)   Second and subsequent violations of the county road speed limits
within a one-year period are punishable and subject to an additional fine of
$100 and $200, respectively in addition to the schedule of fines above.
      (3)   The County Sheriff is authorized to enforce the duly posted and
authorized speed limits on county roads by citing those operators of motor
vehicles observed exceeding the speed limits with an infraction using the
schedule of fines in division (D)(1) above.
      (4)   The County Attorney is authorized to represent the County
Commissioners in prosecuting operators of motor vehicles cited by the Sheriff
and all legal actions necessary to collect the fines for violation of the duly
posted and authorized speed limits on county roads.
   (E)   (1)   Any violation of §§
71.11 or
71.13 shall be subject to a fine of $75 per occurrence.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
71.16 or
71.17 shall be subject to a fine of $50 per occurrence.
      (3)   Any violation of §§
71.18 or
71.19 shall be subject to a fine of $100 per occurrence and shall pay
restitution of any and all county expenses to repair damaged roadways.
      (4)   All fines and restitution collected shall be delivered to the Owen
County Auditor for deposit. Collected fines shall be divided in half, with one-
half being placed in the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund 9175, and the other half
placed in Owen County Sheriff Fund 9174. All restitution funds shall be placed
in the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund as herein described.
      (5)   The County Attorney is authorized to represent the County
Commissioners in prosecuting violators in all legal actions necessary to
collect the fines for violation of this subchapter. The violater is liable for
all costs incurred by the county for prosecution to collect said fines
including, but not limited to, court costs and attorney fees.
(BC Ord. 1973-1, passed 5-7-1973; BC Ord. 1999-32, passed 8-9-1999; BC Ord.
2001-15, passed 5-14-2001; BC Ord. 2005-10, passed 9-19-2005; BC Ord. 2008-31,
passed 9-2-2008; BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-19-2023)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
   
72.01   Enforcement of handicapped parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 ENFORCEMENT OF HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   Anyone who parks a vehicle in a county parking spot clearly marked and
designated as handicapped parking, and whose vehicle does not display a valid
placard, permit or license plate for handicapped parking shall be in violation
of this section.
(BC Ord. 1995-10, passed 8-28-1995) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The first violation of §
72.01 shall result in a written warning to the registered owner(s) of the
illegally parked vehicle by certified or registered mail, and will describe the
penalties for subsequent violations of §
72.01.
   (B)   The second violation of §
72.01, with any vehicle registered to the owner of the vehicle cited in the
first offense shall result in the imposition of a $25, plus costs, fine to be
mailed to the registered owner of the illegally parked vehicle by registered or
certified mail.
   (C)   Any third or subsequent violation of §
72.01 with any vehicle registered to the owner of the vehicle cited in the
first or second offenses shall result in the imposition of a $100, plus costs,
fine to be mailed to the registered owner of the illegally parked vehicle by
registered or certified mail.
(BC Ord. 1995-10, passed 8-28-1995)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Skateboards prohibited on county property
Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.15   Definitions
   
73.16   Persons authorized to operate off-road vehicles on county roads
   
73.17   Registration of off-road vehicles and snowmobiles
   
73.18   Proof of financial responsibility
   
73.19   Permitted roads
   
73.20   Restrictions on operation
   
73.21   Operating on county roads
   
73.22   Enforcement of chapter
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 SKATEBOARDS PROHIBITED ON COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Operating a skateboard on the courthouse, old library and annex
property in Spencer, Indiana is hereby declared a public nuisance and is
therefore prohibited.
   (B)   No person upon roller skates, skateboards or riding in or by means of
any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon the courthouse, old
library or annex property in Spencer, Indiana.
   (C)   Operating a skateboard on the following county roads is hereby
declared a public nuisance and therefore prohibited:
      (1)   Rocky Hill Road; and
      (2)   Old River Road.
   (D)   The county shall have the discretion to post signs as necessary and
appropriate.
(BC Ord. 2003-82, passed 11-26-2003) Penalty, see §
73.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motorized, off-highway vehicle that:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
         (c)   Is designed for travel on at least three non-highway or off-
highway tires; and
         (d)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals.
      (2)   The term includes parts, equipment or attachments sold with the
vehicle.
   BUREAU. The Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles
   COUNTY HIGHWAY. Any public way for vehicular traffic, including the area
within the right-of-way located within the unincorporated areas of the county
and is not maintained or owned by the state or the United States. Nothing in
this subchapter permits the operation of off-road vehicles within the limit of
the Town of Spencer or any other incorporated area in the county. A public way
means the entire width between the boundary lines of a way:
      (1)   That is publicly maintained; and
      (2)   When any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   DEPARTMENT. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel:
         (a)   Without benefit of a road; and
         (b)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland
or other natural terrain.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   A multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicle;
         (b)   An amphibious machine;
         (c)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle;
         (d)   An ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (as defined herein);
         (e)   A RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (as defined herein);
         (f)   Other means of transportation deriving motive power from a
source other than muscle or wind; or
         (g)   SNOWMOBILE (as defined herein).
      (3)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   A farm vehicle being used for farming, included but not limited
to, a farm wagon (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-60(2));
         (b)   A vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes;
         (c)   A construction, mining, or other industrial related vehicle used
in the performance of the vehicle’s common function, including, but not limited
to, a farm wagon (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-60(2));
         (d)   A registered aircraft;
         (e)   Any other vehicle property registered by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles;
         (f)   Any watercraft that is registered under state statutes; or
         (g)   A golf cart.
   OPERATE. To:
      (1)   Ride in or on; and
      (2)   Be in actual physical control of the operation of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. An individual who:
      (1)   Operates; or
      (2)   Is in the actual physical control of an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, who:
      (1)   Has the property in or title to; and
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of; an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motorized, off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 65 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
      (3)   Is designed for travel on at least four non-highway or off-highway
tires; and
      (4)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals.
   SNOWMOBILE. A motor driven vehicle:
      (1)   Designed for travel primarily on snow or ice; and
      (2)   Of a type that uses:
         (a)   Sled type runners or skis;
         (b)   An endless belt or tread; or
         (c)   Any combination of these or other similar means of contact with
the surface upon which the vehicle is operated.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 73.16 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO OPERATE OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON COUNTY ROADS.  
   (A)   All persons at least 18 years old who hold a valid motor vehicle
driver’s license are hereby authorized to operate an off-road over and upon
county roads under the conditions set forth in this subchapter and solely for
the purpose of reaching a predetermined destination.
   (B)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on any county road without
a motor vehicle driver’s license.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 REGISTRATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   An off-road vehicle shall not be operated on a county road unless it
is duly registered with the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles and meets all the
requirements and standards set forth in I.C. 9-18.1-14-1 et seq.
   (B)   The Bureau will charge a fee to register the off-road vehicle or
snowmobile and the fee shall be deposited in the Off-Road Vehicle and
Snowmobile Fund established by I.C. 14-16-1-30.
   (C)   Upon registration, the Bureau shall issue to the applicant a
certificate of registration and two decals. The certificate of registration
must accompany the off-road vehicle or snowmobile and be made available for
inspection upon demand by a law enforcement officer. The decals issued shall be
attached and displayed on the forward half of the off-road vehicle or
snowmobile. Failure to carry or produce the registration or to display the
decals as prescribed by the Bureau is a Class C infraction per I.C. 9-18.1-14-
5.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 73.18 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   A person may not operate an off-road vehicle on or upon a county
highway if financial responsibility is not in effect with respect to the off-
road vehicle. A person who operates an off-road vehicle must provide proof of
financial responsibility as required by I.C. 9-25 et seq. Proof of financial
responsibility means proof of ability to respond to damages for each off-road
vehicle registered by a person for liability that arises out of ownership,
maintenance or use of the off-road vehicle in the following amounts:
      (1)   One hundred thousand dollars because of bodily injury or death of
any one person;
      (2)   Subject to the limit in subdivision (1), $300,000 because of bodily
injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident; or
      (3)   One hundred thousand dollars because of injury to or destruction of
property in any one accident.
   (B)   Any person who operates an off-road vehicle over and upon county roads
shall carry proof of such insurance on his or her person at all times when
operating an off-road vehicle on county roads.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 PERMITTED ROADS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may restrict an off-road vehicle on any
county roads by designating such roads as unsuitable for off-road vehicular
traffic and by posting signs on such designated roads.
   (B)   (1)   An off-road vehicle may be operated on or upon a county highway
located within the county, subject to all local ordinances, state laws, state
regulations, and all the requirements contained in this subchapter. The
following county highways are exempt from this subchapter and no off-road
vehicle shall be operated on or upon the following county highways:
         (a)   County Line Road East; and
         (b)   Freeman Road.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to operate an off-road
vehicle on any county road so designated and posted.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   A person shall not operate an off-road vehicle:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable and proper having due
regard for existing conditions or in a manner that unnecessarily endangers the
person or property of another;
   (B)   While:
      (1)   Under the influence of an alcoholic beverage; or
      (2)   Unlawfully under the influence of a narcotic or other habit forming
or dangerous depressant or stimulant drug.
   (C)   During the hours from 30 minutes after sunset to 30 minutes before
sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight;
   (D)   In a forest nursery, a planting area, or public land posted or
reasonably identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction and when
growing stock may be damaged;
   (E)   On the frozen surface of public waters within:
      (1)   One hundred feet of an individual not in or upon a vehicle; or
      (2)   One hundred feet of a fishing shanty or shelter; except at a speed
of not more than five miles per hour.
   (F)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant, operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying
smoke;
   (G)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except
on the individual’s own property or the property under the individual’s control
or as an invited guest;
   (H)   On any property without the consent of the landowner or tenant;
   (I)   While transporting on or in the vehicle a firearm, unless the firearm
is:
      (1)   Unloaded; and
      (2)   Securely encased or equipped with and made inoperative by a
manufactured keylocked trigger housing mechanism.
   (J)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
   (K)   Within 100 feet of a slide, ski or skating area except for the purpose
of servicing the area;
   (L)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except railroad
personnel in the performance of duties;
   (M)   In or upon a flowing stream, river, or creek except for the purpose of
crossing by the shortest possible route, unless the river, stream, or creek is
of sufficient water depth to permit movement by flotation of the vehicle at all
times; and
   (N)   (1)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle while a bow is present
in or on the vehicle if the nock of an arrow is in position on the string of
the bow;
      (2)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to a person who is
carrying a firearm if the firearm is a handgun and:
         (a)   The person has been issued an unlimited handgun license to carry
a handgun under I.C. 35-47-2;
         (b)    The person is not required to possess a license to carry a
handgun under state law; or
         (c)   If the person carrying the firearm is operating the vehicle on
property the person:
            1.   Owns;
            2.   Has a contractual interest in;
            3.   Otherwise legally possesses; or
            4.   Has permission from a person described in subsections 1.
through 3. above to possess a firearm on.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 OPERATING ON COUNTY ROADS.
   A person shall comply with the following while operating an off-road vehicle
on a county highway:
   (A)   The operator of an off-road vehicle shall abide by all traffic laws
governing the operation of motor vehicles in the state, set forth in I.C.
Titles 9, 14 and 35.
   (B)   The operator of an off-road vehicle may not cross a county road or
enter upon a county road other than at right angles.
   (C)   The operator of an off-road vehicle shall bring his or her off-road
vehicle to a complete stop before proceeding onto or across a county road and
shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic.
   (D)   No passengers are permitted on single seat off-road vehicles.
Passengers on all other off-road vehicles are limited to the number of seats on
the vehicle. No passenger may be under the age of six years old. An individual
less than 18 years of age who is riding on an off-road vehicle shall wear a
helmet.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   Unless otherwise prohibited by state law, all law enforcement officers
having jurisdiction in the county, including officers of the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violators shall be issued a written warning for the first violation.
Subsequent violation of §
73.01 shall be an infraction and subject to the penalties in §
10.99, as amended, or any other such ordinance and procedures for enforcement
and collection of said fines as allowed by state law.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-29, a person who violates §
73.20(A) or (B) commits a Class B misdemeanor. Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-25, the
prosecuting attorney has the power to approve, file and prosecute an affidavit
charging a violation under I.C. 14-16-1-29.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-29, a person who violates any other
provision of §
73.20 commits a Class C infraction.
      (3)   A person who violates any other provision of §§
73.15 through
73.22 shall be fined the sum of $100 per violation.
      (4)   A person who is found to violate any provision of §§
73.15 through
73.22 a second time in one year of a previous violation shall be fined the sum
of $250.
      (5)   A person who is found to have violated any provision of §§
73.15 through
73.22 a third time within one-year of two previous violations shall be fined a
sum of $500.
(BC Ord. 2003-82, passed 11-26-2003; BC Ord. 2019-0032, passed 9-16-2019)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Gross weight limits
      
III.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners deems it advisable for the safety and
health of the citizens of the county to impose the following speed limits.
Road/Location Restricted Area Speed Limit Ord. Date Passed
Road/Location                  Restricted Area                                                                Speed Ord.  Date
                                                                                                              Limit       Passed
E. 250 N. (Bush Road)                                                                                        30    2020- 9-21-
                                                                                                              mph   0050  2020
Adel Road                                                                                                    40    2021- 10-18-
                                                                                                              mph   28    2021
Baseline Road Curve***         Shall be posted with a sign for a dangerous curve                              25    2018- 11-7-
                                                                                                              mph   0018  2018
Beamer Station Road (500                                                                                     35    2019- 8-5-
North)***                                                                                                     mph   0022  2019
Bethesdia Road                                                                                               30    2021- 11-1-
                                                                                                              mph   35    2021
Blue Gate Drive***                                                                                           30    2019- 10-10-
                                                                                                              mph   0035  2019
Braysville Road                                                                                              35    2022- 9-19-
                                                                                                              mph   019   2022
Childers Road                                                                                                30    2020- 9-21-
                                                                                                              mph   0054  2020
Concord Road (375 East)***                                                                                   35    2019- 8-5-
                                                                                                              mph   0021  2019
Country Club Road (also known  From the intersection of County Road 160N and State Highway 67/231 north on    35    2001- 9-12-
as County Roads 160N and 150E) County Road 160N aud then continuing north on County Road 150E from the        mph   33    2001
                               intersection of County Roads 160N, 170N and 150E to State Highway 67
Country Club Road (150E)                                                                                     30    2021- 12-6-
                                                                                                              mph   41    2021
Country Place Road***                                                                                        30    2019- 8-5-
                                                                                                              mph   0023  2019
County Roads 25W and 50E (Old  From the Town of Spencer corporate boundary to the intersection of State       35    2001- 9-26-
43)                            Highway 231                                                                    mph   37    2001
County Road 50S (Hyden Road)   From the Town of Spencer city limits west to the intersection of County Road   35    2001- 7-11-
                               330W                                                                           mph   25    2001
County Road 100S (Freeman      From the intersection of S.R. 43 to the intersection of County Road 25E        35    2004- 8-11-
Road)                          (Pottersville Road)                                                            mph   14    2004
County Road 150W (Adel Road)   From the intersection of County Road 540S to the interaction of County Road    35    2002- 6-11-
                               750S                                                                           mph   76    2003
                               Between County Roads 400E and 315E; these speed limits shall be further        40    2001- 2-16-
County Road 175S               reduced to 25 mph during school hours within 500 feet in both directions from  mph   3     2001
                               any entrance to McCormick’s Elementary School
County Road 250S               From County Road 550W to the intersection of County Road 485W for              35    2001- 7-11-
                               approximately three-quarters of a mile                                         mph   22    2001
                               Between County Roads 175S and 300S; these speed limits shall be further        40    2001- 2-16-
County Road 315E               reduced to 25 mph during school hours within 500 feet in both directions from  mph   3     2001
                               any entrance to McCormick’s Elementary School
County Road 330W (Airport      From the intersection of County Road 50N to the intersection of County Road    35    2001- 9-12-
Road)                          50S                                                                            mph   30    2001
County Road 350E               From the intersection with S.R. 46 to the junction of County Road 175S         40    2001- 2-16-
                                                                                                              mph   3     2001
County Road 400S (Johnson      1.7-mile section lying between S.R. 43 and County Road 15E (Braysville Road)   30    1998- 4-20-
Road)*                                                                                                        mph   11    1998
Roads leading up to                                                                                           20    1996- 7-22-
intersection of County Road    For a distance of one mile                                                     mph   8     1996
400W and County Road 925N
County Road 425N               From the intersection of County Road 450E to the end of County Road 425N for   25    2011- 4-16-
                               approximately 0.24 miles                                                       mph   11    2001
                               2.25-mile section between the intersection with S.R. 46 and Town of Gosport    45    1992- 3-2-
                                                                                                              mph   3     1992
County Road 450E (County Line                                                                                       1992- 3-2-
Road)                          Balance of County Road 450 E                                                   35    3;    1992;
                                                                                                              mph   1992- 9-21-
                                                                                                                    12    1992
County Road 450N               From the intersection of County Road 625W (Jordan Village Road) to the         15    2001- 3-5-
                               intersection of County Road 525W and 325N for approximately 2.1 miles          mph   9     2001
County Road 475S (Little Flock From the intersection of S.R. 43 to the intersection of S.R. 43 for            35    2001- 7-11-
Road)                          approximately 5 miles                                                          mph   23    2001
County Roads 525W and 625W     From the unincorporated Town of Vandalia boundary to County Road 640W (Jordan  25    2001- 9-20-
(Mangus Road)                  Village Road)                                                                  mph   35    2001
County Road 560N (Beamer       From the county line to the intersection of County Road 700W                   35    2001- 9-12-
Station Road)                                                                                                 mph   31    2001
County Road 575W (Splinter     From the intersection of County Road 60S south to the intersection of County   35    2001- 7-11-
Ridge Road)                    Road 250S for approximately 2 miles                                            mph   22    2001
County Road 740N (Lucas Road)  From the intersection of County Road 800W south and easterly to the            35    2001- 7-11-
                               intersection of County Road 600N for approximately 3 miles                     mph   24    2001
County Road 750W (DuBois Road) From the intersection of S.R. 46 to the intersection of S.R. 246               35    2004- 7-14-
                                                                                                              mph   12    2004
                               0.5 mile of 760N extending north and west from the intersection or 760N, 800W
                               and 840N in Jordan Village; and on the 0.5 mile of 840W extending west from    25    1994- 1-4-
County Road 760N               said intersection; and on the 0.5 mile extending south on 800W from said       mph   2     1994
                               intersection
                               Balance of County Road 760N                                                    40    1994- 1-4-
                                                                                                              mph   2     1994
Roads leading up to                                                                                           20    1996- 7-22-
intersection of County Road    For a distance of one mile                                                     mph   8     1996
850N and County Road 150E
County Road 850W (White Road)  From the intersection of County Road 500N to the intersection of State Highway 35    2001- 9-26-
                               46                                                                             mph   38    2001
County Roads 950W and 50 N     From the intersection of State Highway 46 to the intersection of State Highway 35    2001- 9-26-
(also commonly known as Old    246                                                                            mph   36    2001
Patricksburg Road)
County Road 1050W (Humpty      From S.R. 246 to the intersection of County Road 000N (Fiscus Road)            20    -     11-8-
Dumpty Road)                                                                                                  mph         2002
County Road 1150N (North       1.2-mile section lying between Midland Gas Corp. and the intersection with     30    1998- 8-10-
Quincy Road)*                  County Road 325E                                                               mph   15    1998
                               From the intersection of S.R. 157 to the north to County Road 225S for         25    2001- 3-5-
County Road 1500W              approximately 1.8 miles on a temporary basis while the coal mining is taking   mph   6     2001
                               place and until rescinded by the Commissioners
Courthouse parking lot                                                                                       15    2003- 11-12-
                                                                                                              mph   78    2003
Culross Road                                                                                                 30    2021- 11-1-
                                                                                                              mph   37    2021
Denmark Road                                                                                                 30    2020- 9-21-
                                                                                                              mph   0053  2020
                                                                                                                    2020- 5-18-
Dutch Bethel Road                                                                                            30    0036; 2020;
                                                                                                              mph   2020- 9-21-
                                                                                                                    0055  2020
Fish Creek Road                                                                                              35    2024- 6-5-
                                                                                                              mph   013   2024
Freeman Road                                                                                                 35    2024- 6-5-
                                                                                                              mph   013   2024
Garrard Chapel Road (also      From the intersection of State Highway 46 to the intersection of County Road   35    2001- 9-12-
known as County Roads 725W and 600N                                                                           mph   32    2001
750W)
Gilmore Road***                                                                                              35    2018- 11-7-
                                                                                                              mph   0018  2018
Goose Creek Road                                                                                             30    2020- 9-21-
                                                                                                              mph   0051  2020
Hancock School Road (200 West,                                                                               35    2019- 8-19-
350 West)***                                                                                                  mph   0024  2019
Hardscrabble Road                                                                                            35    2022- 9-19-
                                                                                                              mph   018   2022
Hudson Hill Road (150 East)***                                                                               35    2019- 8-5-
                                                                                                              mph   0017  2019
Jackson Road (County Road      From the intersection of Hubbell Station Road (County Road 760S) to the Greene 35    2002- 11-12-
1125)                          County line                                                                    mph   81    2003
Little Flock Road                                                                                            30    2020- 9-21-
                                                                                                              mph   0052  2020
Locust Lake Road (700                                                                                        35    2019- 8-5-
North)***                                                                                                     mph   0020  2019
Marley Road                                                                                                  30    2022- 1-18-
                                                                                                              mph   005   2022
                               Signage indicating the 20 mph reduced speed limit shall be placed in the areas
                               set forth on Exhibit “A”, attached to the ordinance codified herein, made a
                               part hereof, and as further described below:
                               1.   On the west side of Flatwoods Road just south of the iron bridge
                               indicating speed of travel for those persons traveling south on Flatwoods
                               Road;
                               2.   On the north side of Walden Road at the intersection of Flatwoods Road
                               and Walden Road indicating speed of travel for those persons traveling west on
                               Walden Road;
                               3.   On the south side of Walden Road on the 90 degree corner indicating speed
McCormick’s Creek Elementary of travel for those persons traveling east on Walden Road; and                 20    2015- 12-7-
School**                       4.   On the north side of Schooling Road at the intersection of Schooling Romph   0019  2015
                               and Flatwoods Road indicating speed of travel for those persons traveling
                               north on Flatwoods Road.
                               Signage indicating the end of the 20 mph reduced speed limit shall be placed
                               in the areas set forth on Exhibit “A”, attached to the ordinance codified
                               herein, made a part hereof, and as further described below:
                               1.   On the east side of Flatwoods Road just south of the iron bridge for
                               those persons traveling north on Flatwoods Road;
                               2.   On the south side of Walden Road at the intersection of Walden Road and
                               Flatwoods Road for those persons traveling west on Walden Road; and
                               3.   On the north side of Walden Road at the 90 degree corner for those
                               persons traveling west/south on Walden Road.
McCullough Road***                                                                                           35    2019- 8-19-
                                                                                                              mph   0025  2019
McFarren Road (200 East)***                                                                                  35    2019- 8-19-
                                                                                                              mph   0029  2019
Ponderosa Road (850 North)***                                                                                35    2019- 8-19-
                                                                                                              mph   0028  2019
                                                                                                                    2004- 9-8-
Porter Ridge Road (County                                                                                    35    15;   2004;
Roads 750S, 675S and 665S)***                                                                                 mph   2018- 10-2-
                                                                                                                    0013  2018
Romona Road                                                                                                  30    2021- 12-6-
                                                                                                              mph   42    2021
Shepard Patrick Road                                                                                         35    2024- 6-5-
                                                                                                              mph   013   2024
Six Mile Road (1150W)                                                                                        30    2022- 2-17-
                                                                                                              mph   010   2022
Steubenville Road                                                                                            40    2021- 11-1-
                                                                                                              mph   29    2021
Stockton Road***                                                                                             35    2018- 11-7-
                                                                                                              mph   0018  2018
Stone Mountain Road (both 400                                                                                35    2019- 8-5-
East and 350 East)***                                                                                         mph   0019  2019
Switchboard Road (50 East)***                                                                                35    2019- 8-19-
                                                                                                              mph   0027  2019
Texas Pike                                                                                                   35    2024- 6-5-
                                                                                                              mph   013   2024
Thompson Road***                                                                                             35    2018- 11-7-
                                                                                                              mph   0018  2018
Timber Ridge Road (350                                                                                       35    2019- 8-5-
South)***                                                                                                     mph   0018  2019
Truesdale Road (850 North)***                                                                                35    2019- 8-19-
                                                                                                              mph   0026  2019
Walden Road                                                                                                  30    2021- 11-1-
                                                                                                              mph   38    2021
West Fall Creek Road                                                                                         30    2021- 11-1-
                                                                                                              mph   36    2021
Notes:
*   Any person violating any provision of the speed limits for the listed roads shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $20 nor more than $100
**   Any person violating the provisions of the speed limit for McCormick’s Creek Elementary School shall be subject to a fine
of $75, as further set forth in Ord. 2005-17, which is incorporated by reference; the operator is/shall be liable for any and
all costs incurred by the county for prosecution to collect said fine, including, but not limited to, court costs and attorney
fees
***   A person who violates this speed limit commits a Class C infraction
 
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
71.99.
SCHEDULE II. GROSS WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Establishment of weight limits on county bridges, causeways and
viaducts. The County Highway Superintendent is hereby authorized to establish
weight limits on all county bridges, causeways and viaducts. Pursuant to I.C.
9-20-7-1, a vehicle may not be operated or moved over a bridge, causeway, or
viaduct on a highway if the weight of the vehicle is greater than the maximum
load that can be carried with safety to the bridge, causeway, or viaduct.
   (B)   Reduction of gross load weight allowed on bridge, causeway or viaduct
by the Indiana Department of Transportation. Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-7-2, the
local authority, county, when charged with the repair or maintenance of a
bridge, causeway, or viaduct, may reduce the gross load on the structure below
the maximum load prescribed in I.C. 9-20-4-1 and 9-20-5 if the authority
determines that the maximum load is greater than the bridge, causeway, or
viaduct can sustain without serious damage or with safety to the vehicle.
   (C)   Fixing gross weight. Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-4-1(b)(3) and 9-20-7-2, the
County Highway Department has evaluated all of the bridges, causeways, and
viaducts in the county and has determined a lesser weight limit is required for
each structure.
   (D)   Posting of signs. The County Highway Superintendent is hereby granted
authority to erect signs indicating the gross weight allowed on a bridge,
causeway, or viaduct. Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-7-3, this schedule does not take
effect until signs indicating the gross weight allowed on a bridge, causeway,
or viaduct are posted in a conspicuous place at the end of the structure to
which the order, resolution, or ordinance applies. The signs must be legible
from a distance of 50 feet and must be maintained during the time the reduction
is in force.
   (E)   Prohibited vehicles.
      (1)   A vehicle may not be moved over a bridge, causeway, or viaduct when
the vehicle’s gross weight is greater than the gross weight allowed on the
bridge, causeway, or viaduct.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drive
a vehicle, which the gross weight exceeds the maximum load limit listed below
on, over, or across any bridge on any county road in the county.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation found to be violating any
provision of this schedule shall be fined at least $250 and not more than $500
for each offense.
      (2)   All fines collected under this schedule shall be deposited County
Highway Department Bridge Fund: 00900-1135 for use by the County Highway
Department to repair bridges.
Owen County Bridges
Bridge # Load Limit Road Locations Township
Owen County Bridges
Bridge # Load Limit Road Locations          Township
2        0 tons     E Romona Road           Washington
4        9 tons     Lingle Road             Wayne
5        12 tons    Culross Road            Wayne
6        10 tons    Blunk Road              Harrison
7        20 tons    Baseline Road           Harrison
11       15 tons    Quincy Road             Harrison
12       20 tons    Quincy Road             Taylor
13       20 tons    Millgrove Road          Taylor
14       12 tons    Tower Road              Taylor
15       20 tons    Tower Road              Taylor
16       20 tons    Rocky Hill Road         Montgomery
17       20 tons    Rocky Hill Road         Montgomery
18       20 tons    Rocky Hill Road         Montgomery
20       15 tons    Hollybrook Road         Wayne
23       6 tons     Moore Road              Wayne
24       20 tons    Fidler Road             Taylor
26       3 tons     Combs                   Taylor
27       5 tons     Country Club Road       Washington
34       20 tons    Owl Hollow Road         Jackson
36       20 tons    Owl Hollow Road         Jackson
37       20 tons    Owl Hollow Road         Jackson
42       20 tons    Atkersonville Road      Morgan
43       20 tons    Harris Road             Jackson
44       8 tons     Wasatch Lake Road       Jackson
48       0 tons     Palistine Cemetery Road Lafayette
49       20 tons    Sycamore Road           Lafayette
50       20 tons    Fish Creek Road         Lafayette
51       20 tons    Fish Creek Road         Morgan
52       20 tons    Rattlesnake Road        Washington
53       20 tons    Shepard Patrick Road    Washington
55       20 tons    Pottersville Road       Washington
57       20 tons    North County Line Road  Washington
58       20 tons    Williams Road           Washington
59       8 tons     South County Line Road  Washington
60       20 tons    Schooling Road          Washington
61       20 tons    Flatwoods Road          Washington
68       15 tons    Hyden Road              Washington
76       20 tons    Kelly Road              Marion
83       8 tons     Patricksberg Road       Lafayette
84       16 tons    Patricksburg Road       Lafayette
88       8 tons     Hoot Road               Franklin
89       20 tons    Freeman Arney Road      Franklin
90       20 tons    Freedom Arney Road      Franklin
91       8 tons     Coal City Arney Road    Jefferson
92       20 tons    Coal City Arney Road    Jefferson
95       20 tons    Pottersville Road       Washington
97       15 tons    Pottersville Road       Franklin
98       15 tons    Pottersville Road       Franklin
99       20 tons    Freedom Road            Franklin
100      20 tons    Gloryville Road         Franklin
101      20 tons    Pleasant Hill Road      Lafayette
103      5 tons     Egenolf Road            Jefferson
104      8 tons     Hubble Station Road     Jefferson
105      8 tons     Hubble Station Road     Jefferson
106      10 tons    Klass Road              Jefferson
108      8 tons     Dunn Road               Franklin
109      20 tons    Dunn Road               Franklin
110      20 tons    Mt. Calvery Road        Lafayette
111      20 tons    Pleasant Hill Road      Lafayette
113      3 tons     Hoot Road               Lafayette
116      8 tons     Franklin Road           Clay
117      20 tons    Little Flock Road       Clay
120      15 tons    White Hill Road         Morgan
121      20 tons    White Hill Road         Morgan
122      20 tons    Sheese Road             Marion
127      5 tons     Sand Hill Road          Jackson
130      20 tons    Denmark Road            Marion
131      10 tons    Denmark Road            Marion
132      3 tons     Denmark Road            Marion
133      15 tons    Fiscus Cemetery Road    Jefferson
135      7 tons     Precinct Road           Jefferson
136      20 tons    Reynolds Road           Jefferson
137      8 tons     Reynolds Road           Jefferson
138      9 tons     Sutton Road             Jefferson
139      15 tons    Steubanville Road       Marion
140      8 tons     Steubanville Road       Marion
141      20 tons    Pottersville Road       Washington
142      20 tons    Vilas Road              Franklin
143      10 tons    Vilas Road              Franklin
144      10 tons    Vilas Road              Franklin
145      15 tons    How Hope Road           Franklin
147      20 tons    Adel Road               Clay
148      20 tons    White Road              Clay
149      18 tons    Hauser Road             Marion
153      20 tons    Stockton Road           Jefferson
154      20 tons    Stockton Road           Jefferson
155      20 tons    Rey Cemetery Road       Jefferson
158      4 tons     Pea Ridge Road          Washington
159      20 tons    Braysville Road         Washington
160      15 tons    Walls Road              Jefferson
162      20 tons    Thompson Road           Franklin
164      15 tons    Mc Intosh Road          Franklin
174      0 tons     Lingle Road             Wayne
175      20 tons    North County Line Road  Wayne
179      20 tons    Dunn Road               Franklin
188      4 tons     Sandlick Road           Lafayette
189      10 tons    Surber Road             Montgomery
190      20 tons    Mills Creek Road        Clay
192      12 tons    Fifth Ave               Washington
194      13 tons    Bandy Road              Montgomery
196      15 tons    Front Street Quincy     Taylor
198      10 tons    Johnstown Road          Jefferson
209      20 tons    North County Line Road  Wayne
231      20 tons    North Cataract Road     Jennings
232      19 tons    Baysinger Road          Franklin
233      20 tons    Goose Creek Road        Franklin
234      20 tons    Wesley Chapel Road      Montgomery
235      20 tons    Childers Road           Wayne
236      20 tons    Cuba Road               Montgomery
237      20 tons    Bond                    Jefferson
238      20 tons    Splinter Ridge Road     Lafayette
Number of bridges in the each township:
   Clay: 5
   Franklin: 18
   Harrison: 3
   Jackson: 5
   Jefferson: 17
   Jennings: 1
   Lafayette: 11
   Marion: 8
   Montgomery: 7
   Morgan: 4
   Washington: 16
   Wayne: 8
   Taylor: 8
   111: total number of bridges in the county
 
(BC Ord. 2020-0014, passed - -2020)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop signs shall be posted at the following:
Intersection Type of sign Ord. Date Passed
Intersection                                  Type of sign Ord.     Date Passed
Beech Church Road, intersection with Denmark  4-way        2021-33  11-1-2021
Road
Braysville Road while traveling on County     4-way        2002-56  4-10-2002
Road 150W
Bridge #55, both ends                                      1992-13  12-7-1992
County Road 150E (Country Club Road) while
traveling west on County Road 170N (Ramona                 2001-17  5-25-2001
Road)
County Road 150W while traveling both west    4-way        2002-56  4-10-2002
and cast on Braysville Road
County Road 170N while traveling south on                  2001-17  5-25-2001
County Road 150E
County Road 300N (Newport Road) while
traveling south on County Road 850W (Bixler                2001-21  7-11-2001
Road)
County Roads 100S and 330W (Hyden Road and    4-way        99-31    8-9-1999
Airport Road)
County Roads 420S and 1490W while traveling                2002-58  4-10-2002
east on County Road 420S
County Roads 420S and 1495W while traveling   2-way        2002-64  4-10-2002
both west and east on County Road 420S
County Roads 425S and 1490W while traveling                2002-57  4-10-2002
east on County Road 425S
County Roads 425S and 1495W while traveling   2-way        2002-63  4-10-2002
both west and east on County Road 425S
County Roads 430S and 1490W while traveling                2002-59  4-10-2002
east on County Road 430S
County Roads 430S and 1495W while traveling   2-way        2002-62  4-10-2002
both west and east on County Road 430S
County Roads 435S and 1490W while traveling                2002-60  4-10-2002
east on County Road 435S
County Roads 435S and 1495W while traveling   2-way        2002-61  4-10-2002
both west and east on County Road 430S
County Roads 500N and 800W (Garrard Chapel    4-way        99-35    8-23-1999
Road and Jukes Road)
County Roads 550N and 150E                                 2000-21  9-1-2000
County Roads 850N and 150E going westbound on              2000-20  9-1-2000
County Road 850N
County Roads 850N and 150E going southbound                2000-20  9-1-2000
on County Road 150E
Kelly Road (1400W), intersection with Denmark 4-way        2023-001 2-6-2023
Road (150S)
Marion Road (1250W), intersection with        4-way        2022-09  2-17-2022
Smithville Road (200N)
Otterbein Church Road (1325W), intersection   4-way        2021-047 12-20-2021
with Smithville Road (200N)
 
   (B)   Violation of this schedule shall be an infraction and subject to the
penalties in §
10.99, as amended and procedures for enforcement and collection of said fines
as allowed by state law.
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking lots
      
II.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   All parking of vehicles in said lot north of the courthouse between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday when the courthouse
is open shall be accomplished by heading standard-sized motor vehicles in
diagonally at the angle indicated and within the lines painted on the surface
of said lot with each vehicle placed as near to the curb as the front wheels of
such vehicle may be placed.
   (B)   The first four spaces on the west end of the north side of said lot
shall have limited time parking not to exceed one-half hour for the use of the
public having business in the courthouse.
   (C)   The two spaces in the middle of the south side of said lot nearest the
walk to the north door of the courthouse shall be reserved for the use of the
Sheriff of the county in delivering prisoners for proceedings in court.
   (D)   (1)   The two spaces on the east end of the south side of said lot
shall be reserved and marked for handicapped parking only with space for side-
opening chair lifts.
      (2)   Qualifying for the use of a handicapped space shall be accomplished
by individual vehicle owners and operators in complying with appropriate state
law.
   (E)   (1)   The remaining parking spaces shall be reserved for county
employees who shall be issued parking permits and appropriate display stickers
for display on any motor vehicle to be parked on said lot.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall regulate the issuance of such
permits and shall prescribe the style and color of display stickers to be used
for display.
   (F)   (1)   The Sheriff or his or her deputies are hereby authorized to
remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by a commercial towing
service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in violation of any
provision of this schedule
      (2)   Cars and other vehicles so towed away for illegal parking as
provided herein shall be stored in a safe place and shall be restored to the
owner or operator of such car or other vehicle upon payment of a fee of $10,
plus the cost of towing such vehicle within 24 hours after the time such
vehicle was removed, plus $10 for each additional 24 hours or fraction thereof.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
schedule shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each hour during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(BC Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-31-1994; BC Ord. 1995-6, passed 4-10-1995)
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle, including cars,
trucks, motorcycles or any other vehicle, in certain areas within the county
where designated no parking areas by signs or yellow lines painted on the
asphalt or curbs.
   (B)   Violation of this schedule shall be punished by a fine of $25.
   (C)   Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
violation.
(BC Ord. 1994-16, passed 11-21-1994)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   SPECIAL EVENTS
      
92.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   STREETS, ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS
      
95.   WELLS
      
96.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
Health Nuisances
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Garbage, trash and the like; definition and removal
   
90.03   Notice to be removed
   
90.04   Enforcement; removal by county; costs incurred; injunction
Public Nuisances
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Conditions declared to be nuisances
   
90.17   Exemptions
   
90.18   Enforcement
Storage of Junk
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Prohibitions
   
90.32   Exemptions
Dumping
   
90.45   Dumping vegetative matter
Accumulation of Inoperable Vehicles and Junk Upon Private Property
   
90.55   Applicability
   
90.56   Definitions
   
90.57   Violations
   
90.58   Enforcement procedures
 
   
90.99   Penalty
HEALTH NUISANCES
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health and welfare
by declaring trash, garbage, rank vegetation and other waste substance a
nuisance abating such nuisance.
(BC Ord. 2002-73, passed - -2002)
§ 90.02 GARBAGE, TRASH AND THE LIKE; DEFINITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GARBAGE. All organic household waste, of all animal and vegetable matter
prepared or intended for use as food, condemned foodstuffs and materials, and
substance materials and things ordinarily disposed of in containers and
incinerators by hotels, restaurants, stores, hospitals, apartment houses and
private dwellings.
      LOT, PARCEL OF LOT or PARCEL OF REAL ESTATE. Includes, in addition to
those grounds within their respective boundaries, all of the grounds lying to
the center of any roadway or alley whether that roadway is improved or
unimproved.
      OTHER WASTE SUBSTANCES. Any and all junk, rubbish or debris which is
harmful to the general public health and welfare or may detract from the
appearance of a geographic area or a neighborhood.
      RANK VEGETATION. Any and all junk, rubbish or debris which is harmful to
the general public health and welfare or may detract from the appearance of a
geographic area or a neighborhood.
      TRASH. All rubbish and refuse including, but not limited to, paper
products, glass bottles and containers, broken glass, rubber products, metals,
rags, weeds, tree toppings, grass, leaves, discarded furniture and appliances.
   (B)   Illegal dumping. No person, his or her agent, employee or any person
under his or her control, firm, corporation or other legal entity shall cause,
permit or place any rubbish, building rubbish, sawdust, shavings or trade or
household waste, refuse, ashes, garbage, rubbish or debris of any sort, or any
organic or non-organic material, or other offensive matter to be dumped,
deposited or otherwise disposed of in or upon any street, road, lot, park,
public place or other area whether publicly or privately owned.
   (C)   Littering prohibited. No person shall throw, discharge, deposit, place
or leave, or cause to be thrown, discharged, dumped, deposited, placed or left
on any of the roads, streets, parkways, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks,
vacant lots, front yards or porches in or on the grounds of the public park,
swimming pools, playgrounds, recreation areas, public buildings, streams, water
or banks of such streams or rivers, any waste paper, ashes, glass, cans, dirt,
rubbish, waste garbage, refuse or any other trash.
   (D)   Garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste substances. It shall be
unlawful for owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or parcel of lot or parcel of
real estate within the boundaries of the county and outside the corporate
limits of any city or town to allow, suffer or permit any garbage, trash, rank
vegetation or other waste substances to be deposited, grow on or remain on any
said lot, parcel of lot or parcel of real estate.
   (E)   Existence of garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste
substances. Whenever or wherever garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste
substances shall exist, covering or partly covering the surface of any lot or
parcel of lot or parcel of real estate within the boundaries of the county and
outside the corporate limits of any town or city, the same shall be deemed a
nuisance and violation of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 2002-73, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NOTICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (A)   Notice to owners; ten days to abate nuisance. It shall be the duty of
the County Inspector’s offices, the County Health Department or the County
Sheriff’s Department to inspect from time to time the various lots or parcels
of lots or parcels of real estate lying within the boundaries of the county and
outside the corporate limits of any city or town, and if it is found that
garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste substances are permitted to be
deposited on, grown on or remain on such lots or parcel of lots or parcels of
real estate, it shall be the duty of the officer to ascertain the names of the
owners, occupants or lessees of said property and to notify such owners,
occupants or lessees in writing that such garbage, trash, rank vegetation or
other waste substances shall be removed or otherwise destroyed within ten days
from the date of such notice. Notice shall be sent to the owner of record as
the name and address appears on the tax statement from the Treasurer’s office
of the county by certified mail, or notice may be hand delivered by the County
Inspector, Health Department official or Sheriff’s deputy.
   (B)   Publication of notice. If any lot or parcel of lot or parcel of real
estate is not occupied or leased, and the owner is a nonresident of the county
or his or her residence is unknown, or if notice is returned by the postal
department because of its inability to make delivery thereof, the County
Commissioners shall cause a notice to remove the garbage, trash, rank
vegetation or other waste substance to be published in some daily newspaper of
general circulation least once each week for two successive weeks.
(BC Ord. 2002-73, passed - -2002)
§ 90.04 ENFORCEMENT; REMOVAL BY COUNTY; COSTS INCURRED; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   Removal by county; costs incurred.
      (1)   If any owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or parcel of lot or
parcel of real estate shall fail to remove or abate such garbage, trash, rank
vegetation or other waste substance after receiving notice as provided in I.C.
36-7-10.1-3, the County Commissioners may cause the same to be removed or
otherwise abated. When the County Commissioners have effected the removal of
such nuisance, they shall prepare a sworn statement showing the cost of the
work performed and they shall bill the owner of record. Such bill shall be in
the minimum of $25 and shall be due and payable at the time of receiving the
statement.
      (2)   When the full amount due the county is not paid by the owner within
90 days after receipt of the statement as provided in I.C. 36-7-10.1-4, then,
and in that case, the County Commissioners shall cause to be recorded in the
County Recorder’s office a sworn statement showing the cost and expense
incurred for the work; date the work was done and the location of the property
on which said work was done. The recordation of such sworn statement shall
constitute a lien on the property, and shall remain in force and effect for the
amount due in principal and interest, plus pay costs of court and for
collection until final payment has been made. Such costs and expenses shall be
collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of real estate taxes
and, further, shall be subject to a delinquent penalty the same as real estate
taxes in the event same is not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill
upon which said charges appear to become delinquent. Sworn statements recorded
in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all
legal formalities have been compiled with and that the work has been done
properly and satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to every person concerned
that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against
the property designated or described in the statement and that the same is due
and collectible as provided by law.
   (B)   Injunction. If any owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or parcel of
real estate shall fail to remove or abate such garbage, trash, rank vegetation
or other waste substance after receiving notice as provided in I.C. 36-7-10.1-
3, the County Commissioners may cause to be brought and prosecuted a civil
action to enjoin the person from violation of this subchapter through a
continued use or condition of the property as provided in I.C. 36-1-6-4.
   (C)   Cumulative enforcement. The enforcement provisions provided herein
shall be cumulative and may be employed singularly or jointly at the discretion
of the county.
(BC Ord. 2002-73, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The stopping or ceasing or putting an end to whatever the
condition or action may be which causes or is causing a public nuisance.
   NUISANCE. Whatever is injurious to health or is indecent or is offensive to
the senses, or is an obstruction of the free use of property so as to
essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
Whenever the words PUBLIC NUISANCE are used in this subchapter, they shall have
the same meaning as NUISANCE.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, company, association, corporation or group.
   PREMISES. Includes all buildings, structures, dwellings, lots or grounds
within Owen County.
(BC Ord. 2009-07, passed 9-9-2009)
§ 90.16 CONDITIONS DECLARED TO BE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Offensive or noxious odors. No person shall use or occupy any premises
in such a manner as to cause the emission of noxious or offensive odors, dusts,
smoke or other matters into the atmosphere so as to render ordinary use or
physical occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or
unhealthy or impossible.
   (B)   Obnoxious noises.
      (1)   Any noise noxious enough to destroy the enjoyment of residents or
other uses of property in the vicinity interfering with the ordinary comforts
of human existence, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Radios, boom boxes and the like. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical
instrument or other machine or device for producing of sound or reproducing of
sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for
convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle,
chamber or area in which such machine or device is operated and who are
voluntary listeners thereto; the operation of any such set, instrument, machine
or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place
so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in such a
manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building,
structure, vehicle or area in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation of this section; and
         (b)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Noise on the street made by
persons or groups of persons yelling, shouting, singing, hooting, whistling or
making other vocal noises on public streets or at any time or place so as to
annoy or disturb the quiet comfort or repose of any persons in any medical
facility, dwelling, hotel or any other type of residence or of any persons in
the vicinity.
      (2)   A person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally makes
unreasonable noise and continues to do so after being asked to stop, commits
disorderly conduct which is a Class B misdemeanor and is subject to prosecution
as provided by state law.
(BC Ord. 2009-07, passed 9-9-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   Noise that is a result of parades, school functions, sports or band
functions or the like is exempt from this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 2009-07, passed 9-9-2009)
§ 90.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever a violation of this subchapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written or oral complaint with the County
Sheriff’s Department. The County Sheriff will properly report such complaint
and immediately investigate. If the facts elicited by such investigation are
sufficient to establish a reasonable belief that a violation has occurred on
the part of the party investigated, then the County Sheriff’s Department shall
informally request the person creating the noise to correct the condition as
necessary to cause the noise to abate within a reasonable period of time. If
the person creating the noise does not abate the noise, then the County
Sheriff’s Department shall issue a citation.
(BC Ord. 2009-07, passed 9-9-2009)
STORAGE OF JUNK
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ILLEGAL JUNK YARD. Any place other than a state licensed junk yard, which is
maintained, owned, operated or used for the commercial storage, keeping,
processing, buying or selling of junk.
   JUNK. Discarded things, or things regarded as worthless or causing clutter,
including, but not limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Any junk or scrap metal;
      (2)   Any junk or scrap wood;
      (3)   Junk metal alloy;
      (4)   Junk synthetic or organic material;
      (5)   Three or mere junked, ruined, dismantled, inoperable, wrecked motor
vehicles, boats or objects of similar nature or parts thereof;
      (6)   A collection of 20 or more used tires that are not being put to a
use. (Tires used to hold down covers over hay or straw are exempt.);
      (7)   Unusable appliances;
      (8)   All or parts of dismantled buildings or structures that were not
originally parts of the land’s principal or accessory buildings and have not
been reconstructed within six months of their deposit on the land (i.e.,
dismantled buildings or parts thereof, that are or were imported or relocated
to a site are junk on that site); and
      (9)   All or parts of dismantled buildings or structures that were
originally part of the land’s principal or accessory use which have been
destroyed by act of humans or nature and have been dismantled of destroyed for
more than 18 months.
   SCREENED. Hidden from view in a manner that is compatible with the
surrounding environment and permitted under the applicable zoning regulations.
(BC Ord. 2007-2, passed 1-12-2007)
§ 90.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person, group of persons, company, firm, corporation or any other entity
shall, without a license from the state:
   (A)   Operate an illegal junk yard; or
   (B)   For gain or hire, store or dispose of any junk as defined by this
subchapter except in accordance with all applicable state and local
regulations.
(BC Ord. 2007-2, passed 1-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No part of this subchapter is intended to prohibit the storage of idle
but operable farm equipment.
   (B)   Any junk (with the exception of three or more junked, ruined,
dismantled, inoperable, wrecked motor vehicles, boats or objects of similar
nature or parts thereof) that is screened from view, and does not violate any
zoning and building laws, is exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 2007-2, passed 1-12-2007)
DUMPING
§ 90.45 DUMPING VEGETATIVE MATTER.
   (A)   Restriction. The dumping and otherwise placing of any vegetative
matter resulting from yard waste, landscaping, maintenance or land clearing
projects is hereby banned. This ban includes compostable material, solid waste
or any other vegetative matter, including, but not limited to, leaves, grass
and branches.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL. Any material that will decompose into a soil-like
material in less than one year under controlled biological circumstances.
      SOLID WASTE. Vegetative matter and other types of organic material.
(BC Ord. 1993-5, passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
ACCUMULATION OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND JUNK UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 90.55 APPLICABILITY.
   The terms of this subchapter shall apply to all real estate privately owned
in Owen County, which is located outside of the municipal boundaries of Spencer
and Gosport, Indiana.
(Ord. 2020-0023, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 90.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle that has been removed and impounded by a towing
service or a public agency upon request of an officer enforcing this chapter
and is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner's agent within 20 days
after the vehicle's removal from private property.
   APPARENT INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A vehicle that is at least five model years
old, is mechanically inoperable, is missing wheels, motors, tires,
transmission, or other major parts that affect operability; and any other
vehicle that is so damaged it cannot be self-propelled or moved from private
property within the time limits provided in this subchapter.
   AUTOMOBILE JUNKYARD. A business, legally zoned, permitted, and operated for
the purpose of storing scrap metal processing, storing wrecked or inoperable
vehicles, or operating a junkyard.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Any wooden materials, concrete, metal, glass, or other
used materials formerly used for construction of buildings that are not in good
or usable condition; not kept on the property in an orderly manner; or are not
actively being used as part of a construction project with an approved building
permit.
   JUNK. Any article in any form consisting of any of the following enumerated
discarded, abandoned, or cast-off materials. The term shall include, but not
limited to paper, cardboard, rags, tin, metals, residue from burning, broken
glass, clothing, rubber, plastics, synthetic substances and fabrics, bottles,
building materials, automobile parts detached from the vehicle as whole,
collection of 20 or more used tires, and household items not intended for
exposure to rain and other inclement weather, which includes furniture,
mattresses, and appliances.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, or other equipment or device, which
could be used upon a public street, including travel trailers, mobile homes,
motor homes, motorcycles, boats, buses, trailers, and other similar equipment,
which meet any of the following criteria:
      (1)   Is an apparent inoperable vehicle;
      (2)   Is without valid registration or current license plates;
      (3)   Is partially dismantled;
      (4)   Has been substantially damaged or wrecked; or
      (5)   Has a fair market value equal only to the approximate value of the
scrap value of the junk vehicle.
   OPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is properly registered and licensed and
has no apparent damage which would prevent it from being operated on public
streets.
   PARTS. Shall refer to all components of a vehicle which are detached from
the vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate in the unincorporated parts of Owen
County, other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipally owned or used by a government unit.
   REAL PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of record of a parcel of land, as shown on
the real property tax records in Owen County, Indiana.
   RESIDENTIAL LOT. Any parcel of real property located in the unincorporated
area of Owen County, which is zoned for residential use and is either included
in a recorded, platted subdivision, or is less than one acre.
   SHERIFF. Any regular member of the Owen County Sheriff’s Department.
   TOWING SERVICE. A person or company that engages in moving or removing
abandoned or disabled vehicles and/or once the vehicles are moved or removed,
stores or impounds the vehicles.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semitrailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, or a trailer or semitrailer used in the
transportation of other vehicles, watercraft, or motorized bicycle. The term
shall not include operable agricultural equipment located upon land zoned and
used for agricultural purposes or operable construction equipment located on an
active construction site authorized by a properly issued building permit or
stored upon a parcel or real estate zoned for the storage of the construction
equipment.
   VEHICLE OWNER. The last known record title holder of a vehicle according to
the records of the bureau under I.C. 9-18 or a Bill of Sale. If there is no
Bill of Sale or other proof of ownership produced by the person in possession
of the real estate, the vehicle owner shall be presumed to be the owner of the
real estate where the vehicle is located.
(Ord. 2020-0023, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 90.57 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All real property owners or a person controlling any real estate in
the unincorporated part of Owen County shall maintain the private property in a
clean and orderly manner. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for the
owner or the party in possession of any private property to abandon, neglect,
or disregard the condition or appearance of any real property so as to permit
the accumulation of junk, junk vehicles, or inoperable vehicles on private
property.
   (B)   No person or real property owners shall store or allow to remain, upon
private property within Owen County, more than two disassembled or unlicensed
junked, wrecked, or other apparent inoperable vehicles for a period of more
than 14 days unless the vehicle is in connection with a legally zoned
automobile sales or repair business.
   (C)   No person shall permit the accumulation of junk, junk vehicles or
inoperable vehicles upon private property within the unincorporated part of
Owen County unless located in a properly zoned and established landfill or
junkyard. This prohibition shall include the accumulation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Junk vehicles and apparent inoperable vehicles;
      (2)   Junk;
      (3)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as mobile
homes, trailers, campers, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers,
appliances, cans, or containers;
      (4)   Automobile parts, including tires and any other portions or parts
of any other motor vehicle detached from the vehicle as a whole; or
      (5)   Scrap metal, or pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper,
aluminum, or any alloy thereof, whether intact or in parts.
   (D)   The property owners and contractors in charge of any construction site
shall maintain the construction site in such manner as to avoid the
accumulation of junk and debris and no junk or debris shall be allowed to be
carried by natural elements, such as wind, to adjoining properties. All junk
and debris from construction or related activities shall be picked up at the
end of each work day and placed in a container for removal.
   (E)   It is not a defense under this subchapter for any junk, junk vehicle,
or apparent inoperable vehicle to be covered by a tarpaulin, or other plastic,
vinyl, rubber or cloth. It is also not a defense under this subchapter if the
junk, junk vehicle or apparent inoperable vehicle is fully or partially
screened from contiguous real estate by a fence, vegetation, buildings or other
material.
(Ord. 2020-0023, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 90.58 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Any person who owns and maintains any private property in violation of this
subchapter shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and may be subject to the
enforcement action under this subchapter as authorized by I.C. 36-1-6-2 and
subject to fines as described herein. The enforcement procedures of this
subchapter are as follows:
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2, the Owen County Director of the Planning/
Building Department, the Director's designee, or the Inspector for the Owen
County Planning/Building Department may enter upon the real estate where the
materials described in this subchapter are located to take photographs of the
real estate showing the violation(s) of the ordinance. If the entrance upon the
real estate is not possible, photographs may be taken outside the real estate,
including the use of the Owen County's GIS tax mapping information.
   (B)   The Owen County Director of the Planning/Building Department shall
review the photographs showing the violation(s) of this subchapter. The
Director shall prepare a written report documenting the violation. The
Director's designee shall post a Notice of Violation on the entry door of the
residence located upon the private property where the violation(s) exists. The
Notice shall also be mailed to the last owner of record as shown on the
property card maintained by Owen County.
   (C)   The Notice of Violation shall provide the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real property including the parcel
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations; and
      (4)   The date of the Notice and the number of days real property owners
are given to remedy the violation, which shall be no less than ten days, no
more than 60 days pursuant to I.C. 36-l-6-2(a):
         (a)   Pursuant to I.C. 1-2-7-1(b)(1)(2) notice must be given by:
leaving a copy of the notice or other matter at the dwelling house or usual
place of abode of the person to whom the notice or other matter must be given
and sending by first class mail a copy of the notice or other matter to the
last known address of the person to whom the notice or other matter must be
given.
   (D)   In the event the private property is not brought into compliance with
this subchapter, Owen County may:
      (1)   By the Owen County Sheriff's Department file an ordinance violation
upon a uniform traffic ticket or other form, in the appropriate court in Owen
County seeking court costs and a fine of $200 for the first offense and a fine
of $500 for any subsequent offense. The citation shall refer to the number of
this subchapter and the section of the ordinance describing the violation.
      (2)   Seek a mandatory order to bring the private property into
compliance within timelines established by the court.
      (3)   In the event the private property is not brought into compliance,
Owen County may initiate an action to enforce any and all terms of this
subchapter pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5, including requesting a court order for a
representative of the county, or its designated contractors, to come onto the
private property, remove any and all materials located on the private property
in violation of this subchapter; charge the owner of the private property the
costs of removal and storage of the material; record a lien against the private
property to recover the county's costs; and foreclose the lien upon private
property in the annual Owen County Tax Sale, all as permitted by I.C. 36-1-6-2.
The Owen County Board of Commissioners must approve in a public meeting this
remedy prior to filing an action under I.C. 36-1-6-2.
      (4)   None of the penalties or remedies of this subchapter are exclusive
of the other penalties and remedies listed above, and the county may seek any
or all of such remedies.
      (5)   The issuance of each second or subsequent Notice of Violation to a
real property owner shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   All fees collected under this subchapter shall be deposited in the
following manner: 75% of the fine shall be payable to the Owen County Building/
Planning Department and 25% shall be payable to the Owen County Sheriff's
Department. The fine payable to the Owen County Building/Planning Department
shall be deposited into Fund 4908-Line 00370. The fine payable to the Owen
County Sheriff’s Department shall be deposited into Fund 4007.
(Ord. 2020-0023, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If, after the giving of notice as provided in §§
90.01 through
90.04 and the passage of the ten-day abatement period, the property remains in
a condition which is in violation of §§
90.01 through
90.04, the County Commissioners may cause to be brought and prosecuted in the
name of the county a proceeding to enforce an ordinance violation as provided
in I.C. 33-36-3 et seq.
      (2)   Each day of violation of §§
90.01 through
90.04 constitutes a separate violation, subject to a separate penalty not to
exceed $100. Any person found to have violated §§
90.01 through
90.04 shall also be liable for court costs as provided in I.C. 33-36-3 et seq.
      (3)   Any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity
violating I.C. 36-7-10.1 shall, upon conviction by the court, be subject to a
fine of not less than $300. Each day the violation occurs or continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
90.15 through
90.18 or fails to comply with any of its requirements, shall be guilty of an
infraction and shall be fined the sum of $25 per incident for each violation.
Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   Said fine upon payment shall be deposited by the County Auditor
into the fund set forth: 7351 - Ordinance Violation Fines.
   (D)   (1)   For each violation of §§
90.30 through
90.32, the violator will be given notice to correct the violation within 30
days of receipt of the notice. Failure to correct the violation within the time
frame allotted shall subject the violator to a fine of not less than $200 and
not more than $2,500 per day. Each day the violation continues past the
allotted 30 days shall be considered a separate violation.
      (2)   Said fine upon payment shall be deposited by the County Auditor
into the fund set forth: 195-000-3106 - Ordinance Violation Fines.
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners may, at its discretion, obtain an
injunction from the court requiring the violator to cease any and all
violations of §§
90.30 through
90.32. The violator shall be subject to court costs and reasonable attorney
fees associated with the enforcement of the injunction.
(BC Ord. 2002-73, passed - -2002; BC Ord. 2007-2, passed 1-12-2007; BC Ord.
2007-52, passed 12-3-2007; BC Ord. 2009-07, passed 9-9-2009; BC Ord. 2016-0010,
passed 4-4-2016)
CHAPTER 91: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Permit required
   
91.04   Denial of permit or issuance of permit with conditions
   
91.05   Limited exception to special event permit requirements
   
91.06   Special event permit requirements
   
91.07   Approval
   
91.08   Issuance
   
91.09   Revocation
   
91.10   Payment
   
91.11   Enforcement
   
91.12   Waiver
   
91.13   Adoption of forms
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to formalize and standardize the application,
review, and approval procedures for special events to be held on the grounds of
the county courthouse, and to create a fair and reasonable cost recovery
program.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person, group, organization or entity that applies for a
special event permit, the permittee whose name shall appear on the permit
issued pursuant to this subchapter and the responsible party for all special
event activity approved by the issuance of the permit.
   APPLICATION FEE. The non-refundable amount charged by the county to help
cover part of the administrative cost of processing the permit application
through the county’s internal review process. It is separate from any other
charges or costs which may be required by this chapter.
   COST RECOVERY. Administrative and departmental costs that include fixed
costs, direct costs and indirect costs projected to be incurred by the county
in conjunction with an event being held.
   COST RECOVERY PROGRAM. A fair and reasonable process developed to capture
some or all of the administrative and departmental costs incurred by the county
in conjunction with a special event.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any organized gathering of people for any purpose for a
limited period of time which is sponsored by a for-profit or non-profit
individual, group, organization or entity and at which any two or more of the
following shall apply:
      (1)   The event requires the use of the county courthouse; and/or
      (2)   The expenditure of county resources is contemplated or is deemed
necessary by county personnel to maintain public health, safety and welfare;
      (3)   The event is expected to have a visual, noise or other
environmental impact upon the immediate vicinity or surrounding area of the
event.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to use the grounds of
the county courthouse for a special event unless the special event has been
permitted pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The permitting of a special event shall not relieve any person or
entity of any other obligation imposed by the ordinances and regulations of the
county or other applicable law.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to issue permits for special
events proposed to occur upon the grounds of the county courthouse pursuant to
the procedures established in this chapter. The Board of Commissioners is
authorized to establish reasonable boundaries, to determine public health,
safety, and welfare conditions, and to authorize the coordination of the
issuance of a special event permit with other public agencies or departments
including law enforcement, health department, EMS, and other entities. Each
such entity shall review the application and submit advisory recommendations to
the Board of Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DENIAL OF PERMIT OR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT WITH CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners’ decision to deny a special events permit
shall be in writing with reasons stated for denial, and shall be communicated
promptly to the applicant, either in person, by overnight delivery through a
carrier that provides proof of delivery, or electronically. Electronic delivery
shall also be accompanied by regular surface mail to be posted within 24 hours
of electronic notice.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may deny a special event permit for any of
the following reasons or for any other good cause:
      (1)   The applicant supplies false or misleading information; fails to
complete the application or to provide other required documents;
      (2)   The applicant willfully fails to comply with a requirement or
regulation of this chapter;
      (3)   The application is untimely;
      (4)   The applicant or event sponsor previously engaged in conduct or
activity which resulted in jeopardizing public health, safety, or welfare. The
conduct or activity resulting in the denial of the special event permit will be
specified in the written response with supporting documentation;
      (5)   The proposed event is proximate to another special event previously
permitted or scheduled such that the Board of Commissioners, after making
reasonable efforts to accommodate both events, is unable to reasonably
accommodate both events; or
      (6)   The proposed event would unreasonably disrupt the orderly or safe
circulation of traffic so as to present an unreasonable risk of injury or
damage to the public.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners may issue a special event permit with
conditions placed upon the event in the best interest of public health, safety
or for other reasonable cause.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.05 LIMITED EXCEPTION TO SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be applied to regulate the use of
traditional public forums as alternative channels of communication by the
public, provided such use is the free exercise of constitutionality protected
activities, does not disrupt or interfere with traffic on public streets, and
does not require the use of any public services (such, as law enforcement, EMS
and the like).
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.06 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Courthouse. The courthouse shall be closed to the public during
special events. The courthouse shall not be available for use at any special
event.
   (B)   County-owned properties. The following county-owned properties shall
not be available for use for a special event:
      (1)   Probation Office;
      (2)   Health and Building Office;
      (3)   Armory;
      (4)   Extension Office;
      (5)   Community Corrections;
      (6)   All EMS buildings;
      (7)   911 Dispatch building;
      (8)   County jail;
      (9)   All county-owned storage buildings; and
      (10)   All highway buildings.
   (C)   Grounds. The grounds adjacent to county buildings may be made
available for use at special events subject to provisions in this chapter.
Users of the grounds must comply with the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   The grounds shall be protected from damage. The cost to repair the
damage shall be paid by the user;
      (2)   Users shall participate with a county representative in a walk-
through of the grounds before and after each event to inspect the conditions of
the grounds. The post event walk-through must be conducted within 48 hours of
the conclusion of the event;
      (3)   Sidewalks shall not be obstructed by booths, tents, displays or
other items;
      (4)   No vehicles may be driven on or parked on the sidewalks, grass or
planted areas;
      (5)   Plywood or similar material shall be placed as flooring in the work
areas of all food vendor booths. Food vendor booths located in grassy or
planted areas must protect these areas and will be responsible for any damage
to the grounds in their assigned area;
      (6)   Staking of tents or booths is permitted on the grounds only if the
stake is six inches or less in length;
      (7)   No smoking, illegal drug use or alcohol use is allowed on county
grounds. Alcohol is not permitted on county grounds and consumption of alcohol
on county grounds is prohibited;
      (8)   A user must leave the grounds clean, clear of debris and trash, and
in good condition. Trash is to be bagged and removed from the grounds. Clean-up
and removal of equipment must be completed immediately following the event;
      (9)   Users may not move or displace displays, permanent furniture or
signage;
      (10)   Climbing or walking upon any statue, fixture, building or any
structure not intended for such purpose is prohibited;
      (11)   Displays, signs, flags, banners, or decorations may not be
attached or mounted to the county facilities;
      (12)   Displaying any sexually explicit materials as defined by I.C. 24-
4-16.4-2 is prohibited. No vendor may sell or display any sexually explicit
materials, items or images on the grounds of the county courthouse. Displaying
any images of nudity as defined by I.C. 35-45-4-1 (d) in any format is
prohibited. No vendor may sell or display any images of nudity on the grounds
of the county courthouse.
   (D)   Conduct upon county grounds. The Board of Commissioners is committed
to providing a respectful and welcoming atmosphere at all special events.
Individuals of all backgrounds are welcome to special events in the county.
Application for a special events permit indicates your agreement that your
event and all your participants including vendors will not engage in behavior
that demonstrates discrimination or harassment.
   (E)   Procedures and permit process.
      (1)   The applicant of the special event shall submit an application to
the County Auditor, on forms provided by the county, not less than 30 days
prior to the proposed special event and provide the following information:
         (a)   Detail and schedule of activities;
         (b)   Statement of community benefit;
         (c)   Anticipated daily attendance;
         (d)   Date and hours of each event, including set-up and dismantle;
         (e)   Admission criteria;
         (f)   Map of requested use locations overlaid with planned activities;
         (g)   Scope of requested and required public services;
         (h)   Compliance with all current permits for use of public spaces;
and
         (I)   Transportation plan to address overflow and/or street parking
impact.
      (2)   The applicant shall execute an indemnification agreement and
release of liability agreement holding county harmless from any damages or
liability incurred as a result of the special event.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide proof of liability insurance for the
special event in the following amounts:
         (a)   Mandatory: general liability insurance, with a minimum combined
single limit of $1,000,000 for each occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate.
         (b)   Optional: worker’s compensation insurance in accordance with the
statutory requirements of I.C. Title 22. Special events which employ workers
for their events must present proof of worker’s compensation insurance.
         (c)   All insurance policies shall be issued by an insurance company
authorized to issue such insurance in the state. The county, Board of
Commissioners, and the officers, employees, and agents of each shall be named
as an additional insured party under the general liability and worker’s
compensation policies, and such policies shall stipulate that the insurance
will operate as primary insurance and that no other insurance affected by the
county will be called upon to contribute to a loss hereunder.
      (4)   At the time of filing of the application, a special event
nonrefundable permit fee shall be paid to the county to defray costs. A
refundable damage deposit and all additional fees, if applicable, for law
enforcement, EMS, water, and electricity shall be submitted with the
application.
      (5)   The special event permit fee shall be set by the Board of
Commissioners. The nonrefundable permit fee shall be paid to the county General
Fund.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99  
§ 91.07 APPROVAL.
   Completed application forms shall be submitted to the County Auditor. The
Auditor shall place the application on the agenda for the Board of
Commissioners’ regular meeting. The Board of Commissioners will review the
completed application at a public meeting. The Board of Commissioners reserve
the right to deny permit applications which pose a significant danger or threat
to the public health, welfare, or safety, or which may result in unreasonable
inconvenience or cost to the public. The Board of Commissioners shall take
final action upon a completed application for a special event permit as soon as
practical. The Town of Spencer must approve any use of their sidewalks and
streets during a special event.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.08 ISSUANCE.
   Final action on a completed special events permit shall consist of one of
the following:
   (A)   Authorization that a special events permit be issued in accordance
with the terms of the completed application found to be in compliance with this
chapter;
   (B)   Authorization that a special event permit will be issued with the
terms and conditions modified and agreed to between the Board of Commissioners
and the applicant; or
   (C)   Denial of the special event permit application by the Board of
Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A permit issued under this chapter may be revoked after public hearing
for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement contained in the
application for the special event permit;
      (2)   Any violation of this chapter or any other ordinance or regulation
of the county or other applicable law; and
      (3)   The applicant demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to conduct
the special event in accordance with the terms and conditions of this chapter
or any other ordinance or regulation.
   (B)   Notice of the public hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given
by the County Board of Commissioners to the applicant, in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing.
Such notice shall be personally served, or may be mailed, postage prepaid, to
the permittee at his, her or its local address as set forth on the application,
at least three days prior to the date set for the hearing. The decision of the
Hearing Board shall be final.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.10 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Application fee. A non-refundable application fee of $100 shall be due
and payable upon submission of the application. There is no additional fee for
the permit. Applications shall be considered incomplete unless and until the
application fee is paid in full.
   (B)   Financial security. The Board of Commissioners is authorized to
require an applicant to post a cash deposit as a guarantee against damages,
cleanup or loss of public property. A refundable cash deposit of $250 shall be
due upon submission of the application.
   (C)   Public services and utilities. The Board of Commissioners is
authorized to establish the following optional fees for applicants that request
the use of the following public services and utilities: law enforcement
officers; EMS equipment and personnel; water; and electricity. The optional
daily fees for special event are as follows:
      (1)   Law enforcement daily fee: $30 per hour per officer, two officer
minimum;
      (2)   EMS equipment/personnel fee: $25 to $90 per hour, fee itemized in
Exhibit C, which is attached to Ordinance 2019-0041;
      (3)   Water usage fee: fee determined by provider and applicant based
upon the estimated amount to be used; and
      (4)   Electricity usage fee: fee determined by provider and applicant
based upon the estimated amount to be used.
   (D)   Applicant responsibilities. The applicant for the special event permit
is responsible for trash removal and obtaining the appropriate number of
portable toilets for the event. The applicant is responsible for all costs
associated with these services.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers having jurisdiction in the county, including
officers of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, shall have the
authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.12 WAIVER.
   The County Board of Commissioners may, in its sole discretion, and upon good
cause shown, approve waivers of application fees and/or cash deposits or other
securities for any item in any section of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.13 ADOPTION.
   The provisions contained in this chapter and identified as Exhibit A:
Special Event Permit Application and Exhibit B: Indemnification Agreement, and
Exhibit C: EMS Itemized Fees, in their entirety are hereby incorporated by
reference in this chapter. A copy of these exhibits can be found in the Clerk’s
office attached to Ordinance 2019-0041.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For each violation of this chapter, the violator will be subject to a
fine of not less than $200 and not more than $2,500 per day, per violation.
Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct
violation.
   (B)   Said fine, upon payment, shall be deposited by the County Auditor into
the fund set forth: 7351 Ordinance Violations Fund.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners may, at its discretion, file suit in
the court of appropriate jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The violator shall be subject to court costs and reasonable attorney
fees associated with the enforcement of the chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall limit any right of action by surrounding
property owners or occupants for any acts which may also constitute a violation
under this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2019-0041, passed 12-16-2019)
CHAPTER 92: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Registration of alarm, fees and terms
   
92.05   Prohibited activity
   
92.06   Notice of violation
   
92.07   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to as the “Owen County Alarm Ordinance”.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 92.02 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to enhance and
preserve the public safety and welfare of persons and property in the county by
encouraging registration of alarm systems, to encourage security alarm users
and alarm businesses to maintain the operational reliability and proper use of
alarms systems in order to limit the unnecessary responses to alarms by law
enforcement agencies, and to provide penalties for violations of said
ordinance.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM AGENT. Any person who is employed by an alarm business either directly
or indirectly, whose duties include selling, maintaining, leasing, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing on or in any building
structure, facility or grounds any alarm system.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any individual partnership, corporation or other entity who
in addition to selling alarm systems, also leases, maintains, services,
repairs, alters, replaces, moves or installs any alarm system or causes to be
sold, leased, maintained, services, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or
installed any alarm system in or on any building, structure, facility or
grounds.
   ALARM SITE. A single premises or location served by an alarm system.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any device used for the detection of an unauthorized entry or
attempted entry into a building, structure, facility or grounds or for alerting
others on the commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure,
facility or grounds, which when activated causes notification to be made
directly or indirectly to a law enforcement agency.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall be considered
exempt:
         (a)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle;
         (b)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States,
the state or any political subdivision thereof;
         (c)   An alarm which signals or alerts only the occupants of the
premises protected by the alarm system;
         (d)   An alarm occurring during electrical storms, hurricanes,
tornados, blizzards or other acts of nature; and
         (e)   Circumstances not reasonably under the control of the alarm
user, installer or maintainer (the responsibility to show causation is that of
the user, installer or maintainer).
   FALSE ALARM. Any alarm notification, whether direct or indirect, to a law
enforcement agency, when the responding officer finds no evidence of a criminal
offense or attempted offense.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The person to whom as alarm system permit is issued.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 92.04 REGISTRATION OF ALARM, FEES AND TERMS.
   (A)   Registration of any alarm system shall be on the form provided by the
County Sheriff’s Department and registration shall remain on file with the
agency only. (The form is attached as Exhibit “A”, attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part hereof.)
   (B)   There is no fee required in the issuance of an alarm registration.
   (C)   Any alarm system registration issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
valid for the lifetime of the alarm system at the alarm site indication on the
alarm registration form or unless otherwise notified by the alarm agent that
the alarm system has been deactivated or is otherwise no longer in use.
   (D)   An alarm system registration issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
for the alarm site and permit holder indicated on the alarm registration and
shall be non-transferable.
   (E)   A permit holder shall notify the Sheriff’s Department in writing of
any change in the information contained on the permit application within ten
days of the change; this shall include any changes in the fee-simple ownership
of the real estate (alarm site) upon which the alarm system resides.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 92.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who owns or controls property on
which an alarm system is installed to issue, cause to be issued or allow the
issuance of more than one false alarm in any four- month period.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for a person participating in the ownership
or management of an alarm system business to do any business within the county
without registering as required by this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The County Sheriff, his or her agents, employees or assigns may issue
a notice of violation. The first notice of violation will be mailed via regular
U.S. mail. Each subsequent notice will be sent via certified mail to the last
known owner at the last known address.
   (B)   The notice of violation shall state the name of the violator, the
location of the violation, the date and time of the violation and the penalties
for the violation.
   (C)   A notice of violation shall be served upon the violator at the
violator’s last known address. Service shall be complete upon the mailing
(regardless of the receipt of the notice) or posting of the notice at the alarm
site.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The county may initiate a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction
to restrain any person from violating a provision of this chapter. Any such
action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties provided for in this chapter, plus the cost of filing and
reasonable attorney fees. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way
limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines for violation of this chapter are established as follows:
 
First offense                              Written warning
Second offense                             $100
Third offense                              $150
Fourth offense and each subsequent offense $250
 
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided for in division (A) above, any
act or any person, firm or corporation who continuously, knowingly and
intentionally violates any provisions of this chapter may be declared to be a
nuisance and all remedies applicable to a nuisance, both public and private,
including, but not limited to injunctions and damages, are hereby preserved.
Whoever creates or maintains any nuisance and fails or refuses to abate the
nuisance when so ordered shall be subject to an additional fine of not more
than $200 and not to exceed $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues
beyond the date fixed by the Sheriff’s Department for abatement of the
nuisance.
(BC Ord. 2015-0009, passed 5-18-2015)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout the corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04, 93.05, 93.06, 93.07 or 93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. 
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in this section under FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2-(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
93.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (A)(2) below, and I.C.
22-9.5-3; and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (B) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
         (a)    Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996 ; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020 ) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
93.03, and except as exempted by § 93.03(A)(2) and §
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of handicap of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (B)(3)(c)3. above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
93.03 through
93.06.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, occupation of any
dwelling or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of person from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)  Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 93.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 93.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the President of the County
Commissioners.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complaints to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the President of the County
Commissioners shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the President of the County Commissioners and the
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The President of the County Commissioners of the county or his or her
designee shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(BC Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 2020-0037, passed 6-1-2020)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS, ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
Roads Generally
   
94.001   Supervision
   
94.002   Construction
   
94.003   Bond
   
94.004   Specifications
   
94.005   Injury to new surfaces
   
94.006   Repairs
   
94.007   Defects
   
94.008   Obstructions
   
94.009   Barricades
   
94.010   Disturbing barricades
   
94.011   Private use
   
94.012   Encroachments
   
94.013   Drains
   
94.014   Poles and wires
   
94.015   Removal
   
94.016   Injury
   
94.017   Dangerous trees
   
94.018   Wires
   
94.019   Gas pipes
   
94.020   Excavations
   
94.021   Deposits on streets
   
94.022   Dumping trash and garbage
   
94.023   Culvert pipes under roadways
County Roads
   
94.035   Roads taken over as county roads
Standard Permit Conditions for Pole Lines, Underground Cables and Utility Lines
   
94.050   Buried cables and utility lines
   
94.051   Pole lines
   
94.052   Damage
   
94.053   Application for permit
   
94.054   Permit fees
   
94.055   Bonds
   
94.056   Minimum bonding amounts
Driveway Permit
   
94.065   Permit required
   
94.066   Application
   
94.067   Fee
   
94.068   Building Inspector duties
   
94.069   Appeal
   
94.070   Applicants; culverts
   
94.071   County Highway Department; culverts
   
94.072   Costs of stone or gravel and culvert
 
   
94.999   Penalty
ROADS GENERALLY
§ 94.001 SUPERVISION.
   All maintenance and repair of county roads and other public ways shall be
under the supervision of the Highway Supervisor and County Commissioners. They
shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to
such public places (except traffic ordinances) and are hereby authorized to
enforce this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982)
§ 94.002 CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb, excavate, construct or lay any surface on
any public road or other public way, or to repair the same, without having
first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Highway Supervisor and shall state the location of the intended work, the
extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction
work. No such permits shall be issued except where the work will conform to the
reasonable requirements of the Highway Supervisor and County Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 BOND.
   Each applicant under §
94.002 shall file a bond in a reasonable amount set by the Highway Supervisor
and County Commissioners with surety to be approved by the Commissioners
conditioned to indemnify the county for any loss or damage resulting from the
work undertaken or the manner in doing the same.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982)
§ 94.004 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All road surfaces shall be made or restored in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 INJURY TO NEW SURFACES.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid road surface while the same is guarded by a warning sign
or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft or newly laid road surface.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.006 REPAIRS.
   All repair work on county roads shall be under the supervision of the
Highway Supervisor and County Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982)
§ 94.007 DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every county officer and employee becoming cognizant
of any defect in any road, or any obstruction thereof, to report the same to
the Highway Supervisor as soon as possible.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982)
§ 94.008 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause,
create or maintain any obstruction of any county road or other public way,
except as may be specified by ordinance or by the Highway Supervisor.
   (B)   The obstruction of any county road or any right-of-way within the
county, whether by abandoned vehicles within the meaning of I.C. 9-13-2-1,
refuse or other property is hereby banned, with the exception of temporary
obstructions for which a permit is obtained from the Board of Commissioners
pursuant to the procedure in I.C. 8-1-23-2.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982; BC Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-17-1995) Penalty,
see §
94.999
§ 94.009 BARRICADES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any surface on a
county road or other public place, or making an excavation in the same, shall
maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by
reason of the work; such barricades shall be protected by a light at nighttime.
   (B)   Any defect in any such road surface shall be barricaded to prevent
injury; and any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or
excavation while the same remains open shall guard the same with proper
barricades and lights.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.010 DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new road surface or excavation or
opening in any public road or other public place.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.011 PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any county
road or other public way as space for the display of goods or merchandise for
sale or to write or make any sign or advertisement on any such pavement or road
surface.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.012 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public road or property.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.013 DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct, divert or alter any ditch or drain on any
public road or property.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.014 POLES AND WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or
wires over or under any public place, road, street, alley or other public way
without having first secured permission from the County Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.015 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub in any public
right-of-way without having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such
permits shall be made to the County Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.016 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to knowingly or intentionally injure any tree or shrub
planted or growing in any public right-of-way.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.017 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree, shrub or other growing vegetation which overhangs or
protrudes into any roadway or other public place in the county in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel shall be trimmed by the owner of
the premises abutting said overhang or protrusion or the owner of the premises
on which such tree, shrub or vegetation grows so that the obstruction shall
cease.
   (B)   Said owner shall have 30 days after receipt of notice of such
condition to correct it and if said owner shall fail to correct such condition
within such time, the Highway Supervisor may proceed to correct the condition
and the costs incurred by the county to correct such situation shall become a
lien on the lands of said owner, as proscribed by state law; provided, however,
that if the Highway Supervisor determines that a condition presents an
immediate danger to traffic, he or she may proceed immediately without notice,
to correct the condition and the costs thereof shall be charged to the owner of
the land on which the condition exists as above provided.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.018 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public right-of-way or other public place, without the permission of the
Commissioners.
   (B)   Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the roads to
other public places shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise
concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away from any
trees and shrubs in such places as far as may be possible, and keep all such
trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed, subject to the
supervision of the Highway Supervisor so that no injury shall be done either to
the poles or wires or in the shrubs and trees by their contact.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.019 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the county shall keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any trees or
shrubs located on the public right-of-way.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.020 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in roads or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to any tree or shrub, or the roots thereof, wherever
possible.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any road any material which may be
harmful to the surface thereof, or any waste material, or any glass, or others
articles which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
   (B)   In the event any such material is accidentally deposited or spilled
upon any road surface, the owner of such material shall remove such material
and clean the road surface as soon as may be practical.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.022 DUMPING TRASH AND GARBAGE.
   If shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump, discard or
otherwise dispose of any trash, junk, refuse or garbage in or upon any public
road or right-of-way except by placing such material in a receptacle provided
for such purpose.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023 CULVERT PIPES UNDER ROADWAYS.
   All culvert pipes installed underneath county roads, including replacement
pipe to replace damaged or deteriorated culverts must have a diameter of at
least 18 inches.
(BC Ord. 2019-009, passed 6-17-2019)
COUNTY ROADS
§ 94.035 ROADS TAKEN OVER AS COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   The streets and roads submitted to the County Commissioners to be
accepted as county roads, except those streets and roads located in
subdivisions submitted under the subdivision ordinance, shall be constructed
prior to submission to meet the following standards:
      (1)   To conform to the provisions of state statutes where applicable;
      (2)   Such streets and roads shall be constructed so that the sub-grade
is free of vegetation and roots;
      (3)   The traveled portion of such streets and roads shall be constructed
so that each shall have a five-inch compacted base of stone #2 to #4, and a
three-inch topping of stone #53, #73, #8 or #9;
      (4)   The owner submitting said road for acceptance shall provide said
rock, and such ditch and sewers for said road as may be required by the County
Highway Superintendent and said owner shall agree to, and shall be responsible
to continue to provide additional stone, ditch work or sewers as may be
required by the County Highway Superintendent so as to maintain such streets
and roads in the same condition as when submitted, for a period of three years
from the date said road is accepted by the Board of Commissioners; and
      (5)   The owner shall post bond to secure the performance of such
continuing obligation if required by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Any roads proposed to be taken over by the county, in or out of
subdivisions, shall be signed to control traffic and vehicle parking by the
owner or person proposing dedication to the public and county maintenance, with
signs complying with state standards and requirements as may be recommended by
the County Highway Superintendent.
(BC Ord. 1992-14, passed 12-21-1992) Penalty, see §
94.999
PERMIT CONDITIONS FOR POLE LINES, UNDERGROUND CABLES AND UTILITY LINES
§ 94.050 BURIED CABLES AND UTILITY LINES.
   (A)   All buried cables and utility lines shall be located within four feet
of the edge of the right-of-way with all pedestals and hand-holes being located
a distance of two feet from the edge of right-of-way. Pedestals and hand-holes
shall not be placed in the flow-line of a ditch. All cables and utility lines
shall be located a minimum of 36 inches below ground level.
   (B)   The minimum depth requirements in this subchapter include cables
buried in drainage ditches, if so approved by the Highway Superintendent.
Cables shall not be installed through existing drainage culverts or pipes, but
instead shall be buried at the minimum depth from the bottom of said culverts
and pipes.
   (C)   All individuals, including utility companies or their agent shall
submit to the Owen County Highway Superintendent a description of the work to
be performed in the county road easement(s) or right(s)-of way, receive written
approval from the Highway Superintendent, and post a sufficient bond to cover
possible damage to county roads if required to do so by the Highway
Superintendent, prior to any installation or construction of buried cable in
the county road easement(s) or right(s)-of-way.
   (D)   Any variances shall be requested in writing and have explicit written
approval by the Highway Superintendent. This requirement is needed to allow for
the installation of signs, guardrail, and the maintenance and re-establishment
of roadside ditches.
   (E)   At the conclusion or installation of the buried cable or utility line,
it shall be the responsibility of the individuals, including utility company
and their agents, to inform the Highway Superintendent that the project has
been completed and is ready to be inspected by the Highway Superintendent.
   (F)   All individuals, including utility companies or their agents, who does
not install his cables or lines at the depth required herein, waives all rights
to damages incurred to the lines or cables made by the County Department or its
contractors during routine maintenance activities and the installation of
guardrail at hazardous locations.
(BC Ord. 2001-47, passed 12-12-2001; Ord. 2020-0056, passed 11-2-2020; BC Ord.
2023-011, passed 7-19-2023)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.051 POLE LINES.
   All poles shall be located within two of the edge of right-of-way. All new
pole installations and guy line locations shall be marked and notification made
to the Owen County Highway Department a minimum of 96 hours before construction
begins. Field adjustments shall be made at the Highway Department's request for
poles and guy lines presenting drainage and safety problems.
(Ord. 2020-0056, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 94.052 DAMAGE.
   (A)   Drainage tiles. Any permittee or permittee's contractor who cuts an
underground drain tile whether it appears abandoned or not shall notify the
Owen County Highway Department immediately upon cutting the tile. The permittee
shall then repair the tile as directed by the Highway Department.
   (B)   Damage to the roadway and improvements. The permittee shall repair the
roadway or improvements that are damaged by the permittee or the permittee's
contractor. Any damage to the roadway or improvements shall be repaired
immediately at the direction of the Highway Department. Improvements shall
include but are not limited to signage, guardrail, curbs, storm sewers and
related inlets, bridges, traffic signals, pavement markings or other
improvements installed by the Owen County Highway Department or its contractor.
   (C)   Road improvement projects and bridge projects. Any utilities installed
within the limits of a planned project shall be placed in a location that best
accommodates the project. All utilities which are not located within a
dedicated utility easement shall be required to relocate at their own cost to
accommodate a county project. The utility shall relocate at a location
designated by the Owen County Highway Department. Restoration during a project
shall be equal to or better than conditions prior to the placement of the line.
Any utility construction that occurs after the completion of a county project
shall restore any distributed areas or repair damage to any improvements within
the limits of the project to the specifications of that project's plans or at
the direction of the Highway Department.
(Ord. 2020-0056, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 94.053 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, public utility, or corporation desiring to construct
an improvement, or to alter, change or modify an existing structure in the
right-of-way of the Owen County Highway System shall make application for a
permit to the Highway Superintendent on the forms provided, accompanied by the
required information and fees.
   (B)   The owner of record of the property to be served by an improvement
shall certify as to ownership and if not the applicant, authorize the
application.
   (C)   The property owner of record shall accept an encroachment agreement
for the requested improvement as part of the application and permitting
process.
   (D)   The Highway Engineer shall not accept incomplete applications, or
applications not accompanied by the required fees.
   (E)   An application accepted as complete may be revised by applicant to
address review comments by the Highway Engineer. Such revised application shall
not be considered a new application for the purposes of this chapter.
   (F)   Any application for which a permit is not issued or which the
applicant is not actively pursuing resolution of review comments shall be
considered abandoned by the applicant 90 days after the date of the last
interaction between the applicant and the Highway Engineer related to the
application.
   (G)   The application for a permit to work in the county rights-of-way is
attached to Ord. 2020-0056 as Exhibit "B" and is herein incorporated by
reference.
(Ord. 2020-0056, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 94.054 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay a permit fee to the Highway Department with the
application for permit for all improvements in the county highway system
rights-of-way. This permit fee shall provide for the review, permit issuance,
and inspection of the improvements.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees for the
county Highway Department as approved by the County Commissioners.
   (C)   Permit fees shall be paid by check or money order payable to the "Owen
County Highway Department." Cash cannot be accepted.
   (D)   Permit fees shall be deposited in the Highway Department's general
operating fund for the costs of administrating the department.
   (E)   Permit fees are refundable only if the Highway Superintendent
determines that compliance with this section is not necessary.
   (F)   The county Highway Department Schedule of Fees for Construction in
Rights-of-Way, is attached to Ord. 2020-0056 as Exhibit "A" and is herein
incorporated by reference.
   (G)   All fees collected shall be allocated to the Owen County Highway
Department. The fees shall be deposited into Fund 1176 Account 00614.
(Ord. 2020-0056, passed 11-2-2020; BC Ord. 2021-034, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 94.055 BONDS.
   (A)   Where, in the opinion of the Highway Superintendent, the improvements
may impact county improvements in the right-of-way, a permit bond for the
estimated cost of the impact shall be provided to the Highway Department. The
bond shall be submitted and approved prior to issuance of a permit.
   (B)   The permit bond shall be obligated such that the applicant will well
and faithfully do and perform the things to be done and performed according to
the terms of the permit and to the satisfaction of the Highway Superintendent
and shall pay all lawful claims of the contractor, vendors and laborers for
labor performed and materials furnished, or other services rendered in the
carrying forward, performing and completing of the permit.
   (C)   The standard bond amounts shall be as set forth in the schedule of
bonds for the Owen County Highway Department as approved by the Owen County
Commissioners.
   (D)   The Highway Superintendent may allow utilities intending to file for
multiple permits to have an annual permit bond for utility work in the county
right-of-way in an amount acceptable to the Highway Superintendent. The minimum
annual permit bond amount requirement is $25,000. The annual permit bond shall
be written so that it covers all contemplated projects within Owen County and
automatically renews, unless the surety gives the Highway Superintendent a
written notice 60 days prior to the annual expiration date. An annual permit
bond cannot be used for drive or public road approach permits.
   (E)   The Highway Superintendent shall have the authority to develop bond
forms and to approve bonds received for improvements.
   (F)   Prior to the release of any permit bond, the Highway Superintendent
will require an inspection to determine the completion of construction
according to the terms of the permit and to the satisfaction of the Highway
Superintendent.
   (G)   At the discretion of the Highway Superintendent, a maintenance bond
may be required from an applicant as a condition of approval or as a condition
of releasing the permit bond. A utility company having certificate of authority
or franchise issued by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commissioner and who has
a continuous bond on file with the Owen County Highway Department may be used
in lieu of the maintenance bond when approved by the Highway Superintendent.
   (H)   Prior to the release of a permit bond issued for the cutting of a
road, the applicant shall post a three year maintenance bond which cannot be
canceled prior to three years from the completion of the road cut.
   (I)   If the bond company sends notice that the bond is being canceled at
any time prior to the completion of the condition for which the bond is
obligated, the total amount of the bond shall become immediately due and
payable to the Owen County Board of Commissioners. If a maintenance bond is not
submitted upon completion of the work, the total amount of the permit bond
covering the work will become immediately due and payable to the Owen County
Board of Commissioners and no additional permits will be issued to the
applicant.
(Ord. 2020-0056, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 94.056 MINIMUM BONDING AMOUNTS.
   The minimum bonding amounts are as follows:
Utility annual permit bond           $25,000
Underground linear construction,     $10,000 per mile or fraction of a mile
grading, trenching, or excavation    (maximum $15,000)
parallel to the road
Open road cut (paved)                $15,000 per location
Open road cut (gravel)               $0 per location
Bores or pushes under roadway        $5,000 per bore
Placement/removal of poles/overhead  $5,000 per mile or fraction of a mile
lines                                (maximum $15,000)
Tap pit (including a directly        $5,000 per pit
associated push or bore)
Equipment crossing subdivision curbs $2,000 per crossing
and sidewalk, no excavation
 
(Ord. 2020-0056, passed 11-2-2020)
DRIVEWAY PERMIT
§ 94.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, build or maintain a driveway or other access way
that connects with a county highway without first obtaining a driveway permit
from the County Building Department.
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.066 APPLICATION.
   An application for a driveway permit shall be applied for on application
forms provided by the County Building Department and shall require, at a
minimum, the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (B)   Common address of the property/real estate;
   (C)   Type of permit needed;
   (D)   Description of work to be done; and
   (E)   Site drawing of proposed location of access.
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 94.067 FEE.
   (A)   The County Building Department shall charge a fee of $25 for each
driveway permit payable at the time the driveway permit is issued.
   (B)   All fees collected shall be allocated to the County Building
Department.
   (C)   The Highway Department shall charge a fee of $35 for each driveway
permit, payable at the time the driveway permit is issued. All fees collected
shall be allocated to the Highway Department. The fees shall be deposited into
Fund 1176 Account #00611.
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019; Ord. 2020-0031, passed 4-20-2020)
§ 94.068 BUILDING INSPECTOR DUTIES.
   (A)   The County Highway Department Superintendent, in determining whether
or not to approve a driveway permit, shall consult whatever other persons and
or officials as he or she, in his or her discretion, deems is necessary to make
a determination on the issuance of a driveway permit.
   (B)   The requirements of §§
155.135 through
155.142 of this code is applicable to driveway permits.
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 94.069 APPEAL.
   In the event prior approval is denied or the driveway permit is denied, the
applicant may appeal to the County Board of Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 94.070 APPLICANTS; CULVERTS.
   As a condition of being issued a driveway permit, applicants shall, at their
own expense, purchase and install or have installed culvert of a length,
strength and diameter, required by the County Highway Department under each and
every access way. In determining whether to approve a driveway permit, the
County Highway Superintendent shall consider the necessity of the driveway, the
effect of the driveway location, the design of its approaches and its
elevation, the movement and safety of persons using the county highway with
which the driveway connects and whether the strength, length and diameter of
the proposed culvert under the driveway or access way is sufficient to assure
that such culvert will not interfere with or impede the flow of water through
the roadside drains or ditches. In no event shall anyone install a driveway
culvert that is less than 20 feet in length or less than 12 inches in diameter.
To be approved by the County Highway Department, a driveway culvert must be
constructed of either corrugated metal pipe or double wall black plastic pipe.
Construction of a driveway access way connecting to a county highway requires
prior approval of the County Highway Department and subsequent approval upon
completion of construction before issuance of a permit. The County Highway
Department may waive the requirement of a culvert pipe where the same would not
be required, as in cases involving subdivision drainage systems.
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 94.071 COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT; CULVERTS.
   On all driveways accessed off of Owen County highways, the Owen County
Highway Department shall not install new driveway culverts in those driveways
that do not previously have a driveway culvert, nor will the Highway Department
replace any existing defective driveway culverts for any private owners. All
applicants for a driveway permit must at their own expense adhere to all
conditions stated in §
94.070. All driveway permits expire 60 days from day of issuance.
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019; BC Ord. 2021-27, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 94.072 COSTS OF STONE OR GRAVEL AND CULVERT.
Price/Foot Size/16 Gage AIZ Culvert Price Stone Price/Load Total
Price/Foot Size/16 Gage AIZ Culvert Price Stone Price/Load Total
$11.31     12x     24       $290.44       $121.48          $411.92
$11.31     12x     30       $363.05       $121.48          $484.53
$11.31     12x     36       $435.66       $121.48          $557.14
$13.58     15x     24       $348.73       $121.48          $470.21
$13.58     15x     30       $435.91       $121.48          $557.39
$13.58     15x     36       $523.10       $121.48          $644.58
$13.58     15x     40       $581.22       $121.48          $702.70
$16.98     18x     24       $436.04       $121.48          $557.52
$16.98     18x     30       $545.06       $121.48          $666.54
$16.98     18x     36       $654.07       $121.48          $775.55
$16.98     18x     40       $726.74       $121.48          $848.22
$19.23     21x     24       $493.83       $121.48          $615.31
$19.23     21x     30       $617.28       $121.48          $738.76
$19.23     21x     36       $740.74       $121.48          $862.22
$19.23     21x     40       $823.04       $121.48          $944.52
$21.50     24x     24       $552.12       $121.48          $673.60
$21.50     24x     30       $690.12       $121.48          $811.60
$21.50     24x     36       $828.18       $121.48          $949.66
$21.50     24x     40       $920.20       $121.48          $1,041.68
$27.15     30x     24       $697.21       $121.48          $818.69
$27.15     30x     30       $871.51       $121.48          $992.99
$27.15     30x     36       $1,045.82     $121.48          $1,167.30
$27.15     30x     40       $1,162.02     $121.48          $1,283.50
$32.82     36x     24       $842.82       $121.48          $964.30
$32.82     36x     30       $1,053.52     $121.48          $1,175.00
$32.82     36x     36       $1,264.23     $121.48          $1,385.71
$32.82     36x     40       $1,404.70     $121.48          $1,526.18
$38.47     42x     24       $987.90       $121.48          $1,109.38
$38.47     42x     30       $1,234.89     $121.48          $1,356.37
$38.47     42x     36       $1,481.86     $121.48          $1,603.34
$38.47     42x     40       $1,646.52     $121.48          $1,768.00
$42.99     48x     24       $1,103.98     $121.48          $1,225.46
$42.99     48x     30       $1,411.08     $121.48          $1,532.56
$42.99     48x     36       $1,669.12     $121.48          $1,790.60
$42.99     48x     40       $1,839.97     $121.48          $1,961.45
 
(BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019; Ord. 2020-0031, passed 4-20-2020; Ord.
2021-003, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Every person, firm or corporation convicted of violating any provision
of §§
94.001 through
94.022 for which another penalty is not provided shall for the first conviction
thereof be punished by a fine of not less than $25 and not more than $100. For
a second such conviction within one year thereafter, such person, firm or
corporation shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than
$250. For a third such conviction within one year of the first conviction, such
person, firm or corporation shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250
and not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
94.008(B) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each such
offense, and that each day the violation continues shall be separate offense.
   (D)   Violation of §
94.050 shall be an infraction and subject to the penalties in §
10.99 or any such ordinance and procedures for enforcement and collection of
said fines as allowed by state law.
   (E)   (1)   Any driveway constructed on land in the county in violation of
any of the provisions of §§
94.065 through
94.072 shall be deemed to be an unlawful driveway.
      (2)   Any person, who constructs an unlawful driveway in violation of any
provision of §§
94.065 through
94.072, shall be notified in writing of the unlawful acts and will be given ten
days to apply for the permit or comply with the permit issued. If the landowner
or tenant fails to comply within ten days, the offender shall be subject to a
$25 per day penalty for each day of noncompliance.
      (3)   The County Building Department shall also be able to enforce
compliance with §§
94.065 through
94.072, and the collection of the penalty in a civil proceeding against the
offender. Any landowner who fails to comply with §
94.071 and fails to reimburse the County Highway Department for the cost of
stone or gravel and the culvert pipe per the cost schedule in §
94.072 shall be deemed to be in violation of this §§
94.065 through
94.072. The landowner will be given 30 days from the time of installation to
pay the scheduled fee. If the landowner fails to comply within 30 days, the
offender shall be subject to a minimum fine of $350 to a maximum fine of
$1,650. The County Highway Department shall also be able to enforce compliance
of §
94.071 and collection of the penalty in a civil proceeding against the
offender. Any person who constructs an unlawful driveway which intersects a
state highway, will be subject to any penalties, forfeitures, or conditions
established by the state.
      (4)   Any physical changes required by the County Highway Department to
an unlawful driveway to bring the driveway into compliance with the terms of
this §§
94.065 through
94.072 and the terms of the driveway permit will be made at the private owner’s
expense.
(BC Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-20-1982; BC 1995-1, passed 1-17-1995; BC Ord. 2001-
47, passed 12-12-2001; BC Ord. 2019-0012, passed 7-15-2019; BC Ord. 2020-0009,
passed 1-6-2020)
CHAPTER 95: WELLS
Section
   
95.01   Registration required
   
95.02   Construction
   
95.03   Copy of record
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All parties who wish to drill wells in the county must first register
with the office of the County Building Inspector. This may be accomplished by
the submission of a photocopy of the driller’s state license along with a
payment in the sum of $5. This registration shall be effective for one year. At
the end of that time, the driller must renew his or her registration in the
manner described above.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the drilling of a well, the well driller
must register the well in the office of the County Building Inspector. Until
said well is registered, work may not commence. At the time of filing, the well
driller must already have registered with the County Building Inspector in the
manner described above. Registration of each well must be accompanied by a
filing fee in the sum of $5 and may be sent through the mail. Forms shall be
provided by the county.
(BC Ord. 1995-13, passed 9-25-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   Construction of all wells and open-loop geothermal wells must be done in
compliance with the requirements set forth in Indiana Administrative Code 16.
(BC Ord. 1995-13, passed 9-25-1995)
§ 95.03 COPY OF RECORD.
   The driller must also submit an accurate and complete copy of the record
that must be complied and recorded with the state as required by I.C. 25-39-4-
1 within 30 days of the completion of the well.
(BC Ord. 1995-13, passed 9-25-1995)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Should the driller fail to comply with the terms of this chapter, he
or she shall have to pay a fine to the county in the sum of $500.
   (B)   Any party violating any provision of this chapter shall be liable to
the county for any expense, loss or damage resulting from the violation and
subsequent abatement of said violation.
(BC Ord. 1995-13, passed 9-25-1995)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Park hours
   
96.02   Fires prohibited
   
96.03   Disposal of rubbish, refuse and garbage
   
96.04   Restrooms
   
96.05   Pet supervision required
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PARK HOURS.
   The hours of use for Veterans Park is from dawn to dusk. No person shall
enter or remain in the park after it is closed to the public. No overnight
camping is permitted. No one shall leave a vehicle within the park after the
park has been closed to the public.
(BC Ord. 2019-007, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 FIRES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall build, kindle, maintain or use a fire within the park unless
the person properly contains such fire in facilities designed for that purpose.
All persons shall use the grills provided in the park for cooking. No open
fires are permitted. Hot coals may be left in grills.
(BC Ord. 2019-007, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH, REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   No person shall take into, carry through, or put into the park any rubbish,
refuse, garbage or any other material. Trash removal is the responsibility of
the user. All rubbish and waste shall be carried away from the park by the
person responsible for its presence and disposed of elsewhere.
(BC Ord. 2019-007, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 RESTROOMS.
   Restrooms are open to patrons of the park from April to November. Patrons
are to ensure no water is running in the restrooms.
(BC Ord. 2019-007, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 96.05 PET SUPERVISION REQUIRED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a pet shall be defined as an animal kept
for pleasure, not utility. No person shall bring any pet into the park unless
the person shall continuously supervise such pet, including preventing or
promptly repairing any damages caused by the pet and picking up and disposing
of any excrement dropped by the pet upon any park property. All pets are to be
kept on a short leash at all times. Pets are not permitted on playground
equipment or surfacing.
(BC Ord. 2019-007, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be issued a written warning for
the first violation and will be ordered to leave the park. A subsequent
violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $250. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day
during which or on which a violation occurs or continues to occur.
(BC Ord. 2019-007, passed 6-17-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
111.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND PROTECTION
      
112.   TATTOO, PIERCING, AND BODY MODIFICATION BUSINESSES
      
113.   SALVAGE YARDS
      
114.   CABLE COMMUNICATION SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Adoption by reference
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Fee
   
110.04   Bond
§ 110.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This chapter adopts by reference the provisions of I.C. 25-37-1 et seq.,
which prescribe the requirements for obtaining a transient merchant’s license.
(BC Ord. 2008-13, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm, limited liability company or corporation, both as
principals and agents, must complete the county application for transient
merchant’s license and obtain a valid transient merchant’s certificate before
commencing business.
(BC Ord. 2008-13, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 110.03 FEE.
   (A)   The license fee for obtaining a transient merchants license is $100
for each six-month period in which the applicant proposes to do business in the
county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners, at its discretion, may reduce or waive the
license fee; however, this may only be done annually.
(BC Ord. 2008-13, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 110.04 BOND.
   (A)   Upon submission of the application for transient merchant’s license,
the person, firm, limited liability company or corporation, both as principals
and agents, must file a bond with the County Auditor in the sum of $750 or
three times the value of the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered for
sale or sold as shown by the inventory filed with the application, whichever
sum is greater, with the bond issued in favor of the state.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners, at its discretion, may reduce or waive the
bond requirement; however, this may only be done annually.
(BC Ord. 2008-13, passed 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Conflict of interest
Permits
   
111.015   General
   
111.016   Permit period
   
111.017   Permit content
   
111.018   Application
   
111.019   Content of the application
   
111.020   Qualifications
   
111.021   Plans requirements for permanent food establishments
   
111.022   Plan requirements for temporary food establishments
   
111.023   Change of ownership
   
111.024   Responsibilities of the operator
Permit Fees
   
111.035   Fees; generally
   
111.036   Pro rating of fees
   
111.037   Exemption from permit fees
   
111.038   Late fees
Inspection
   
111.050   General
   
111.051   Temporary food establishment
   
111.052   Performance and risk-based inspections
   
111.053   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice
   
111.054   Inspection reports
   
111.055   Timely correction of the critical violations
   
111.056   Refusal to sign acknowledgment
   
111.057   Public information
Compliance and Enforcement; Appeals
   
111.070   Application denial
   
111.071   Permit suspension
   
111.072   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department
   
111.073   Resuming operation
   
111.074   Outstanding fees
   
111.075   Enforcement procedures
   
111.076   Ordinance violation
   
111.077   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest. The term does not include hotels, motels, boarding
houses or food service establishments. The operator may reside within the
establishment or on contiguous property.
(675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-3)
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A situation in which a member’s private interest,
usually of a financial nature, may influence the member’s judgment in the
performance of the member’s public duty. A CONFLICT OF INTEREST includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any conduct that would lead a reasonable person, knowing all of the
circumstances, to conclude that a member is biased;
      (2)   Acceptance of any form of compensation other than from the
commission for any services rendered as part of the member’s official duties
for the commission;
      (3)   Participation in any business being transacted with the commission
by any person in which the member or the member’s spouse or child has a
financial interest;
      (4)   Use of the member’s position, title, or any authority associated
with it in a manner designed for personal gain or benefit; and
      (5)   Demonstration, through work or action in the performance of the
member’s official duties, of any preferential attitude or treatment toward any
person.
(68 I.A.C. 9-5-1(3))
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any official of Owen County, Indiana.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. A written document that
delineates the formal procedures for the following the hazard analysis critical
control point principles developed by the National Advisory Committee on
Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24-43)
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Owen County or authorized
representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The health officer having jurisdiction in Owen County or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a hearing officer in proceedings. The HEARING OFFICER is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health Department. (Examples
of HEARING OFFICER could be the County Health Board, a subcommittee of County
Health Board, a subcommittee of health professionals from the community or
other non-biased third party appointed by the Health Board.)
   IMMINENT HEALTH AND HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation, which in the
opinion of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. A County Health Department action of particular applicability that
determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities or other legal
interests of one or more specific persons. The term includes a permit.
(I.C. 4-21.5-1-9)
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends or
otherwise provides food for human consumption, such as:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   Satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (d)   A market;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   A vending location;
         (h)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (i)   An institution;
         (j)   A food bank; and
         (k)   An establishment that relinquishes possession of food to a
consumer directly or indirectly through a delivery service, such as home
delivery of grocery orders or restaurant take-out orders, or delivery service
that is provided by common carriers.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element or the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off the
premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24)
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24-98, means a
retail food establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14
consecutive days in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.002 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No county official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
PERMITS
§ 111.015 GENERAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The
valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   (B)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-21 will be entitled to obtain and keep a permit.
   (C)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
   (D)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
   (E)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.016 PERMIT PERIOD.
   (A)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31 of the same year, and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (B)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term of
one continuous operation.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.017 PERMIT CONTENT.
   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit is
granted;
   (B)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
   (C)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
   (D)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.018 APPLICATION.
   A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall submit to the County
Health Department a written application for a permit on the form provided by
the County Health Department.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.019 CONTENT OF THE APPLICATION.
   The application shall include:
   (A)    The name, mailing address, telephone number and original signature of
the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
   (B)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
   (C)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment:
      (1)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
      (2)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
         (a)   Prepares, offers for sale or serves potentially hazardous food:
            1.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
            2.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discard food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
            3.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24; or
            4.   Prepares acidified food as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3.
         (b)   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
         (c)   Prepares food as specified under division (C)(2)(b) above for
delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment where it is prepared;
         (d)   Prepares food as specified under division (C)(2)(b) above for
service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24;
         (e)   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
         (f)   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food that
is not potentially hazardous.
   (D)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the operator directly
responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment
and/or temporary food establishment;
   (E)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(D) above such as the zone, district or regional supervisor;
   (F)   The names, title and addresses of:
      (1)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (B) above including the owners and operators; and
      (2)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
   (G)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
      (1)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
      (2)   Affirms that the applicant will:
         (a)   Comply with this chapter; and
         (b)   Allow the County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-
24.
   (H)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.020 QUALIFICATIONS.
   To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
   (A)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
   (B)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment and/or temporary food establishment and provide required
information; and
   (D)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.021 PLANS REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMANENT FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit to the
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
      (1)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
      (3)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/
or retail food establishment or food operation if the County Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24) and the menu.
   (C)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and approved
by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
   (D)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.022 PLAN REQUIREMENTS FOR TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of a temporary food
establishment shall submit a temporary food application and appropriate fees to
the County Health Department, for each specific festival in which the
establishment intends to participate, at least 14 days prior to the beginning
of the event.
      (2)   If the temporary food application and appropriate fees are not
received by the County Health Department within the 14 days prior to the
beginning of the event, a late penalty will be levied.
Except for good cause, as determined by the County Health Department, if the
temporary food application and appropriate fees are not received by the County
Health Department within three days prior to the beginning of the event the
temporary food establishment will be denied a license for operation.
   (B)   The temporary food establishment must have a certified food handler
certificate at stated in 410 I.A.C. 7-22 on site at the time of inspection or
the establishment will be denied a license for operation.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.023 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   The County Health Department may renew a permit for an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment, or may issue a permit
to a new owner of an existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment after a properly completed application is submitted,
reviewed and approved, the fees are paid and an inspection shows that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.024 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR.
   Upon acceptance of the permit issued by the County Health Department, the
operator in order to retain the permit shall:
   (A)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
   (B)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
   (C)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
   (D)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department including time
frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices, orders,
warnings and other directives issued by the County Health Department in regard
to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or in response to community emergencies;
   (E)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
   (F)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
   (G)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
PERMIT FEES
§ 111.035 FEES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of such establishment.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment and/or a temporary
food establishment shall be set by the County Health Department, as provided by
the statutes of the state. (See I.C. 16-20-1-27.)
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fees shall be provided by the County
Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.036 PRO RATING OF FEES.
   In the event that a business shall apply for a permit any time after June
30, it shall be required to pay one-half of the annual fee.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.037 EXEMPTION FROM PERMIT FEES.
   An organization that is exempt from the state gross income tax under I.C. 6-
3-2-2.8 and offers food for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the
benefit of the organization is exempt from the payment of fees. This exemption
only applies to organizations that meet the criteria addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-
30. The Health Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an
organization’s tax exemption.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.038 LATE FEES.
   (A)   A late fee shall be assessed as set by the County Health Department
for failure to acquire a license prior to the operation of a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment.
   (B)   A late fee shall be assessed as set by the County Health Department
for failure to renew a permit within 14 days after the expiration of the permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment.
   (C)   A late fee shall be assessed as set by the County Health Department
for failure to apply for a temporary food license at least 14 days prior to the
event.
   (D)   The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable or
refundable except for good cause as determined by the County Health Department.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
INSPECTION
§ 111.050 GENERAL.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast and/or
retail food establishment at least once every six months.
   (B)   The County Health Department may increase the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
      (1)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is fully operating under an approved and validated hazard
analysis critical control point (HACCP) plan(s);
      (2)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied
throughout the jurisdiction (see Table 1 in §
111.052); and
      (3)   The Health Department may contact the operator to determine that
the nature of the food operation has not changed.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.051 TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Health Department shall periodically inspect throughout its
permit period a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or serves
unpackaged potentially hazardous food and may inspect temporary food
establishments that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged, non-potentially
hazardous food that:
   (A)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
   (B)   Has untrained food employees.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.052 PERFORMANCE AND RISK-BASED INSPECTIONS.
   Within the parameters specified in §§
111.050 and
111.051, the County Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more
frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment’s history of compliance with
this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment’s potential as a vector of food borne illness by evaluating:
   (A)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24
and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or non-
critical;
   (B)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
   (C)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be valid;
   (D)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored or served;
   (E)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and service (see Table 1);
   (F)   The number of people served; and
   (G)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
 
Table 1: Menu Type
   Pre-packaged potentially hazardous food only;
1. limited preparation of non- potentially         At least once a year
   hazardous foods only
   Limited menu (1 or 2 main ingredients); pre-
   packaged raw ingredients are cooked or prepared
   to order, retail food operations exclude deli
   or seafood department; raw ingredients require
   minimal assembly; most products are cooked/
2. prepared and served immediately; hot and cold   At least once every 6 months
   holding of potentially hazardous foods is
   restricted to single meal service; preparation
   processes requiring cooking, cooling and
   reheating are limited to 1 or 2 potentially
   hazardous foods
   Extensively handling of raw ingredients;
   preparation process includes the cooking,
   cooling and reheating of potentially hazardous
3. food; a variety of processes require hot and    At least once every 6 months
   cold holding of potentially hazardous food;
   advance preparation for next-day service is
   limited to 2 or 3 items; retail food operations
   include deli and seafood departments
   Extensive handling of raw ingredients;
   preparation processes include the cooking,
   cooling and reheating of potentially hazardous
   foods; a variety of processes require hot and
4. cold holding of potentially hazardous food;     At least once every 6 months
   food processes include advanced preparation for
   next-day service; category would also include
   those facilities whose service population is
   highly susceptible
   Extensive handling of raw ingredients; food
5. processing at the retail level, e.g., smoking   At least once every 6 months
   and curing; reduced oxygen packaging for
   extended shelf-life
 
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.053 ACCESS ALLOWED AT REASONABLE TIMES AFTER DUE NOTICE.
   (A)   After the County Health Department presents official credentials and
provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the
operator shall allow the County Health Department to determine if the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the
establishment, allowing inspection and providing information and records
specified in this chapter. The County Health Department is entitled the
information and records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23,
during the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s
hours of operation and other reasonable times.
   (B)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
   (C)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. (See I.C. 16-20-1-26.)
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.054 INSPECTION REPORTS.
   At the conclusion of the inspection, the County Health Department shall
provide a copy of the completed inspection report and the notice to correct
violations to the operator or the person in charge, as required under I.C. 16-
20-8-5.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.055 TIMELY CORRECTION OF THE CRITICAL VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specified in division (B) below, an operator shall at the
time of the inspection correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a HACCP
plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
   (B)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
   (C)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.056 REFUSAL TO SIGN ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   (A)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
   (B)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/
or temporary food establishment.
   (C)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of the
County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.057 PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   Except as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-24-194 (Trade Secrets), the County
Health Department shall treat the inspection report as a public document and
shall make it available for disclosure to a person who requests it as provided
in law. (See I.C. 16-20-8-6.)
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS
§ 111.070 APPLICATION DENIAL.
   If an application for a plan review and/or permit to operate a bed and
breakfast, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is
denied, the County Health Department shall provide the applicant with a notice
that includes:
   (A)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
   (B)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for the
application and/or permit; and
   (C)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and time
frames for appeal that are provided in law.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.071 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   The County Health Department may suspend a permit to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment, and/or temporary food establishment if it determines
through inspection, or examination of employee, food, records or other means as
specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard exists.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.072 CEASING OPERATION AND CONTACTING THE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue
operations and notify the County Health Department if an imminent health hazard
may exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption
of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic
materials, onset of an apparent food borne illness outbreak, gross insanitary
occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
   (B)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.073 RESUMING OPERATION.
   If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated
above or otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the
County Health Department before resuming operations.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.074 OUTSTANDING FEES.
   Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a permit may not be
issued.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.075 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Repeat major violations.
      (1)   The first time an establishment receives two consecutive repeat
major violations, the owner/manager will be notified by letter. The purpose of
the letter is to make the establishment aware of their repeat major violation
(s) and the civil penalties rule (410 I.A.C. 7-23) and specific fines that may
be applied if the problem(s) persist. The establishment will also be put on
routine monthly inspections until the violation(s) are corrected.
      (2)   When an establishment receives the third consecutive repeat major
violation the owner/operator will be called in for a conference with the
Environmental Health Specialist and the Supervisor of the Environmental
Division to discuss the violation(s). At this time, the establishment will be
fined according to the civil penalties rule (410 I.A.C. 7-23).
   (B)   Order to abate. The County Health Officer may issue an order to abate
based on a condition that may transmit, generate or promote disease. Failure on
the part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the
enforcement of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an
action by the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney. (See I.C. 16-20-
1-25; see also §
111.077 to ensure that due process is followed.)
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.076 ORDINANCE VIOLATION.
   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation, the County
Health Officer will request the County Attorney to institute a proceeding in
the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance violation. (See I.C. 34-28-5-
1.)
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 111.077 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under the enforcement options
of §§
111.075 and
111.076 shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a Hearing
Officer by filing a written request therefore with the Health Officer
(Secretary of the County Board of Health). See I.C. 16-20-1-10. The written
request must be mailed or hand delivered to the Health Officer, 60 South Main
Street/Courthouse Spencer, IN. 47160 and must be received within 15 days after
such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days’
written notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be
measured pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period
of time may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the person requesting the
review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The order completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(BC Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-21-2005)
CHAPTER 112: TATTOO, PIERCING, AND BODY MODIFICATION BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Sanitary operation of tattoo parlors
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   General requirements
   
112.04   Minimum standards for physical facilities
   
112.05   Operator and artist responsibilities
   
112.06   Additional requirements for mobile units
   
112.07   Prohibited acts
   
112.08   Exceptions
   
112.09   Permits
   
112.10   Application for plan review/application for permit
   
112.11   Fees
   
112.12   Inspections
   
112.13   Closure of tattoo and body piercing facility
   
112.14   Fines
   
112.15   Enforcement
   
112.16   Appeals
   
112.17   Conflict of interest
§ 112.01 SANITARY OPERATION OF TATTOO PARLORS.
   All places, individuals and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo to a person or install or perform body or skin piercing or
modification shall be regulated by this chapter and shall maintain the premises
in which tattoos are performed and equipment used in the tattoo, piercing or
modification process in a sanitary manner.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions in 410 I.A.C. 1-5, for the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTIST. A person employed by an establishment to perform body piercing, body
modification or to affix a permanent tattoo to an individual. This includes
those defined as “body piercer” or “tattoo artist” by 410 I.A.C. 1-5, or any
person who performs tattooing, boring, penetration or tunneling through the
body of a client.
   BODY MODIFICATION. Any tattoo, permanent cosmetics, body piercing, or other
penetrating body art, or the use of needles, scalpels, or other medical devices
to insert devices or modify the body for the purpose of adornment. This does
not include henna tattoos or other surface adornment.
   BRANDING. A potentially invasive procedure in which a permanent mark is
burned into or onto the skin using either temperature, mechanical or chemical
means.
   CLIENT. A person or patron who receives tattooing, body piercing or body
modification services.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. (Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1(b)(2)) A situation in
which the private financial interest of local official, local official's
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or emancipated child, may
influence the local official's judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A location where body piercing, body modification and/or
tattooing are performed. This includes a facility as defined by 410 I.A.C. 1-
5 and includes temporary events and mobile establishments.
   EVENT COORDINATOR. A person or persons responsible for the event.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Owen County Health Department having jurisdiction in
Owen County, Indiana.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed health officer having jurisdiction in
Owen County, Indiana.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a hearing officer in proceedings. The hearing officer is not the
health officer or any other employee of the Owen County Health Department.
   IMPLANTING. A procedure involving the placement of an object or multiple
objects under the skin to mold or shape the skin outwardly for a particular
appearance.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Owen County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the operator.
   LOCAL OFFICIAL. Any official of Owen County, Indiana.
   MOBILE ESTABLISHMENT. A tattoo, body piercing, or body modification
establishment that is wheeled; mounted on a vehicle; or otherwise readily
movable, that changes location too frequently to be a candidate for permanent
utility connections, as determined by the health officer.
   OPERATOR. A person who controls, operates, conducts, manages, or owns any
establishment or any artist at a temporary event.
   ORDER. (Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9) An Owen County Health Department
action of particularly applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a permit.
   SCARIFICATION. Altering skin texture by cutting the skin and controlling the
body's healing process in order to produce wounds, which result in permanently
raised wheals or bumps known as keloids.
   SUSPENSION. Hanging the body from (or partially from) hooks that are placed
by body piercing.
   TEMPORARY EVENT. An establishment located within a permanent structure that
operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days for the purposes of
product demonstration, industry trade show, or education.
   TONGUE SPLITTING. Tongue bifurcation or a type of body modification in which
the tongue is cut centrally from its tip part of the way towards its base,
forking the end.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a business that offers tattooing, body-piercing, or other body
modification services, unless the Owen County Health Department has issued a
permit to the business under this chapter, and the business is in compliance
with 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
   (B)   Perform a tattooing, body piercing, or other body modification
procedure in a manner that does not meet the requirements of this chapter, 410
I.A.C. 1-5, and I.C. 35-42-2-7.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR PHYSICAL FACILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of 410 I.A.C. 1-5, all tattoo, body
piercing, or other body modification establishments must comply with the
following:
   (A)   The premises in which tattooing and/or body piercing occurs shall be
conducted in an enclosed building or establishment. Each artist station shall
be reasonably separated from each other and from waiting clients or observers.
   (B)   Tattoo, body piercing, and other body modification establishments
shall be equipped with artificial light sources equivalent to at least 20 foot-
candles at a distance of 30 inches above the floor throughout the
establishment. A minimum of 40 foot-candles of light shall be provided at the
level where the tattooing is being performed. Spotlighting may be used to
achieve this required degree of illumination.
   (C)   All walls and floors near equipment used for tattooing, body-piercing
or other body modification activities shall be smooth, nonabsorbent, and easily
cleanable surface and be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times.
   (D)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed with a smooth,
nonabsorbent, and easily cleanable finish. If used, disposable table paper
shall be changed between clients.
   (E)   Exterior doors shall be self-closing and tight fitting. Operable
windows shall have tight-fitting screens.
   (F)   Restroom facilities shall be available to employees at all times the
establishment is open for operation. The restroom shall be equipped with a
toilet, toilet paper, hand sink supplied with warm running water, liquid soap,
paper towels in dispensers or hand dryers, and a waste receptacle.
   (G)   A hand sink supplied with running water at a temperature of 100 - 120
degrees Fahrenheit, liquid soap, paper towels in dispensers, and a waste
receptacle shall be located in close proximity to each artist's station and
shall be readily accessible and available without passing through any door or
barrier. One hand sink shall serve no more than six artist's stations.
   (H)   Equipment and supplies used in the course of tattoo and body-piercing
services or disinfection and sterilization procedures shall not be stored or
utilized within the restroom.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.05 OPERATOR AND ARTIST RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of 410 I.A.C. 1-5 and 29 CFR 1910.1030, the
operator shall ensure the following:
   (A)   The use of properly calibrated autoclave sterilization units on all
reusable items and monthly spore testing of the autoclave are mandatory. A copy
of the results of all spore tests shall be submitted to the Health Department
upon receipt of each test report. Autoclave indicator tape or other verifiable
indication of sterilization shall be used and maintained with each reusable
item until used.
   (B)   A copy of all applicable regulations shall be retained on premises.
   (C)   The following records must be maintained by all operators for at least
two years:
      (1)   A government issued ID with a photo and date of birth on each
client;
      (2)   If the client is under age 18, parental consent forms; and
      (3)   With respect to tattooing services, written records must also
include the professional tattooing ink used for each tattoo performed.
   (D)   Verbal and written instructions for the aftercare of the tattoo or
other body modification shall be provided to each client or legal guardian if
client is under 18. The written public education materials shall:
      (1)   Advise the client to consult a physician or dentist as appropriate
at the first sign of infection;
      (2)   Shall contain the name, address and phone number of the
establishment or artist; and
      (3)   Shall be signed and dated by the artist and the client, with a copy
given to the client.
   (E)   The following information for each artist and operator shall be kept
on file at the establishment and available for inspection by the Health
Department:
      (1)   Full name, date of birth, gender, and identification photos;
      (2)   Proof that all artists and operators are a minimum of 18 years of
age;
      (3)   Written documentation of one of the following:
         (a)   The completion of the Hepatitis B vaccination series;
         (b)   Antibody testing that has revealed immunity to Hepatitis B; or
         (c)   The Hepatitis B vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons;
and
      (4)   Documentation of bloodbome pathogen training.
   (F)   Before and after performing tattoos, body piercings, or other body
modification procedures, the artist shall thoroughly wash hands in warm running
water with liquid soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels.
This shall be done as often as necessary to remove contaminants. Single-use,
disposable paper products shall be used.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.06 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE UNITS.
   In addition to all other requirements in this chapter and 410 I.A.C. 1-5,
all mobile establishments must meet the following:
   (A)   A mobile establishment must receive an initial inspection at a
location specified by the Health Department prior to permit issuance to ensure
compliance with requirements. Additional inspections may be performed at any
location where the mobile unit is operating.
   (B)   Tattooing and/or body-piercing performed pursuant to this section
shall be done only from inside an enclosed unit.
   (C)   The mobile establishment shall be used only for the purpose of
performing body modification procedures. No habitation or cooking is permitted
inside the mobile establishment.
   (D)   An adequate supply of potable water shall be maintained for the mobile
establishment at all times during operation.
   (E)   All liquid wastes shall be stored in an adequate storage tank with a
capacity at least 15% greater than the capacity of the onboard potable water
supply. Liquid wastes shall be disposed of in accordance with all applicable
regulations at a site approved by the Health Department.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The following activities are strictly prohibited:
      (1)   Tongue splitting; and
      (2)   Tattoo removal.
   (B)   The following activities are strictly prohibited to minors (under age
18):
      (1)   Branding;
      (2)   Implanting;
      (3)   Suspension;
      (4)   Scarification; and
      (5)   Piercing of the genitalia or nipples.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   Ear lobe piercing and medical procedures performed by a state licensed
medical practitioner are exempt from this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.09 PERMITS.
   No person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, business trust,
corporation, or any organized group of persons may operate an establishment
unless it has first received a valid permit from the Owen County Health
Department.
   (A)   The valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous location in the
establishment.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each establishment, mobile
unit, and/or temporary establishment.
   (C)   A permit for an establishment shall be issued for a term beginning
January 1 or the date of commencement of operation, and expiring December 31 of
the same year, and shall be applied for by the operator annually.
   (D)   A permit for a temporary establishment shall be issued for 14 days or
less and for the duration of a single event at a single location.
   (E)   Every person that desires to perform any tattoo or body modification
shall obtain an artist permit. The person shall satisfy the minimum
requirements of §
112.05.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.10 APPLICATION FOR PLAN REVIEW/APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The operator of a proposed establishment, mobile unit, or temporary
establishment shall submit the following to the Owen County Health Department
at least 30 days prior to scheduling the pre-operational inspection and 30 days
prior to the proposed first day of operation:
      (1)   Plan review fee: $150 per establishment;
      (2)   Completed exposure control plans;
      (3)   Contract with infectious waste removal company;
      (4)   Copy of bloodborne pathogen training for all employees;
      (5)   Hepatitis B waivers signed by all employees; and
      (6)   Spore test results within the last 30 days (if applicable).
   (B)   The plans and specifications for an establishment shall be deemed
satisfactory and approved by the Owen County Health Department before a permit
can be issued.
   (C)   A pre-operational inspection shall be conducted to ensure that the
establishment is built, remodeled, or arranged in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications and to assure the establishment is in compliance with
410 I.A.C. 1-5 and this chapter.
   (D)   Any application for a temporary establishment shall also include the
signature of the venue owner acknowledging that the requirements of this
chapter shall be met during the temporary event.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.11 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an establishment, other than a temporary establishment,
shall be paid for a term beginning January 1 and/or before the commencement of
operation, and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be applied for
by the operator annually.
   (B)   The fees paid under this chapter are not transferable or refundable. A
permit may not be issued to any establishment where outstanding or unpaid fees,
or late fees, are due.
   (C)   A late renewal fee shall be assessed as set by the Owen County Health
Department for failure to renew a permit within 14 days after the expiration of
the permit to operate an establishment. The late fee is $10.
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the Owen
County Health Department.
   (E)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to an
establishment shall be set by the Owen County Health Department and approved by
the Board of Commissioners, as provided by the Statutes of the State of Indiana
(see I.C. 16-20-1-27). The fee for a permit to an establishment is $150.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Owen County Health Department may conduct inspections of
establishments located in Owen County, Indiana, at least every once six months.
   (B)   After the Owen County Health Department presents official credentials
and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection,
the operator shall allow the health officer to determine if the establishment
is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the establishment,
allowing inspection, and providing information and records specified in this
chapter.
   (C)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of an
establishment permit to operate. If access is denied, an order issued by the
appropriate authority allowing access may be obtained according to law (see
I.C. 16-20-1-6).
   (D)   The health officer shall provide a copy of the completed inspection
report and the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-
in-charge.
   (E)   Violations noted by the Health Department shall be corrected
immediately.
   (F)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Owen County Health Department
may agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection for the
operator to correct violations.
   (G)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
violation, or at the end of the specified time frame, the Owen County Health
Department shall verify correction of the violation, document the information
on the inspection report, and enter the report into the Owen County Health
Department's records.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.13 CLOSURE OF TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING FACILITY.
   (A)   The health officer may immediately close a facility and suspend a
permit when any of the following occur:
      (1)   Untimely reporting of test results;
      (2)   Proper handwashing sink not provided at each station;
      (3)   Conditions that present an imminent threat to public health or
transmission of communicable disease; or
      (4)   Three or more occurrences of the violations described in this
chapter, 410 I.A.C. 1-5, and any other applicable local, state, or federal
regulation within a 12-month period.
   (B)   The health officer may post a sign notifying the public that the
facility has been closed. It is a violation of this chapter for any person
other than the health officer to remove the sign.
   (C)   The health officer may reinstate the establishment permit upon
satisfactory compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 1-5, and other applicable
local, state, or federal regulations.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.14 FINES.
   (A)   If a tattoo artist or operator shall fail to obtain a permit prior to
the conduct of their business or at any time after one has been issued but has
expired, the tattoo artist and/or operator may be subject to a fine of not more
than $100. Each day the tattoo artist and/or operator shall be in violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 for each violation.
Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be considered
to be a separate offense.
   (C)   In the event a lawsuit is necessary to collect the cost of fees,
penalties, or services for this chapter, the individual or business entity
found to be liable shall also pay for reasonable attorney fees and cost of
litigation to the county.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Owen County Health Department may:
   (A)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation of
the establishment permit in front of the health officer (see §
112.16 to ensure that due process is followed).
   (B)   The Owen County health officer may issue an "order to abate" based on
a condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the
part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement
of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the
County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney (see I.C. 16-20-1-25; see also §
112.16 to ensure that due process is followed).
   (C)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance's violation (see
I.C. 34-28-5-1).
   (D)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense, request
the County Attorney or the County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for enforcement (see I.C. 16-20-1-25(c)).
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.16 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by the orders issued under enforcement of §
112.15 shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a hearing
officer by filing an administrative written request therefore with the health
officer (Secretary of Owen County Board of Health; see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The
written request must be mailed, or hand delivered to health officer, 86 East
Market Street, Spencer, Indiana 47460, and must be received within 15 days
after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the health officer receipt of such request, the hearing officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place, and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of the court of the jurisdiction (a shorter period of
time may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon).
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person's mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the health officer.
   (D)   The hearing officer establishes the rule of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the administrative appeals
procedure. An aggrieved party may appeal the administrative order by filing an
action in Owen County circuit courts within 30 days of the order.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 112.17 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No local official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(BC Ord. 2022-012, passed 3-7-2022)
CHAPTER 113: SALVAGE YARDS
Section
   
113.01   Fencing around salvage yards
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 FENCING AROUND SALVAGE YARDS.
   All salvage yards (more commonly known as “junkyards”) opened for business
after the effective date of this section shall construct a fence around the
perimeter of the area containing the salvaged material such that vermin and
other small animals, and children will not be able to enter the area where the
salvaged material is stored. That part of the fence facing a public road or
highway, or a residence within 500 feet shall be constructed out of material
that will obstruct the view of the salvaged material.
(BC Ord. 2001-34, passed 9-12-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
113.01 shall be an infraction and subject to the penalties in §
10.99, as amended, or any other such ordinance and procedures for enforcement
and collection or said fines as allowed by state law.
(BC Ord. 2001-34, passed 9-12-2001)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE COMMUNICATION SERVICES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Authority to grant license
   
114.03   Application for license
   
114.04   Acceptance and duration of license
   
114.05   Limitation upon grant
   
114.06   Construction of system
   
114.07   Excavations in streets, alleys and the like
   
114.08   System maintenance
   
114.09   Local office complaints
   
114.10   Licensee fee
   
114.11   Inspection of property
   
114.12   Liability and indemnification
   
114.13   Termination
   
114.14   Compliance with rules and regulations of FCC
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person that applies for a license under this chapter.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. The signal reception, processing
and distribution system used by a licensee in the construction, operation and
maintenance of the cable system in the county.
   COUNTY EXECUTIVE. The Owen County Board of Commissioners, or any designee
thereof.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or a designated representative.
   GROSS SUBSCRIBER RECEIPTS. The sums paid by subscribers living in the county
to the licensee for the supplying of regular subscriber services, that is, the
fees for regular cable benefits including the distribution of broadcast signals
and origination channels, if any. Such term shall not include revenues derived
from per-program or per-channel charges, leased channel revenues, advertising
revenues or any other income derived from the cable system. Such term shall not
include any taxes on services furnished by the licensee imposed directly on any
subscriber or user by the county, state or other governmental unit.
   LICENSE. The non-exclusive right and authority to construct, maintain and
operate a cable television system through use of the public streets, public
utility easements and other public utility easements and other public rights-
of-way or public places in the county.
   LICENSE PROPERTY. All property owned, installed or used under authority of
this chapter by the licensee.
   LICENSEE. Any person or entity to whom a license is granted pursuant to this
chapter and any lawful successor or assignee of the original license.
   PERSON. Any natural person and all domestic and foreign corporations,
association, syndicates, businesses, common law trusts, societies and/or any
other legal entity.
   STREET. The surface, the air space above the surface and the area below the
surface of any public street, communications or public utility easement or
other public rights-of-way or public places.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity receiving services from a licensed cable
television system in the county.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.02 AUTHORITY TO GRANT LICENSE.
   (A)   The county executive has the authority to authorize the issuance of
non-executive license to install, construct, operate and maintain cable
television systems in streets, public utility easements and other public
rights-of-way, or public places, within the county as well as to regulate these
activities.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter shall be deemed or construed to require
the granting of a license.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license to construct, operate or maintain any
cable television system in any county shall be filed with the county executive
and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant. If the
applicant is a partnership, the home and business address of each partner shall
also be set forth. If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall
state the names and addresses of its directors, main officers, major
stockholders and associates and the names and addresses of parent or subsidiary
companies;
      (2)   A statement setting forth in its entirety any and all agreements
and understandings, whether formal or informal, written, oral or implied,
existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person who proposed
to have an ownership interest with respect to the proposed license or to the
proposed cable television operation. If a license is granted to a person acting
as a representative of another person and such information is not disclosed in
the original application, the license shall be deemed void and of no force and
effect;
      (3)   Financial statements, as determined by the county executive,
prepared by a certified public accountant or person otherwise satisfactory to
the county executive showing the applicant’s financial status and financial
ability to complete the construction and installation of the proposed cable
system and/or continue the operation of an existing cable system;
      (4)   A statement describing the cable system and specifying the type and
capacity of the cable system proposed to be constructed, installed, maintained
or operated by the applicant and the proposed or existing location of the cable
system;
      (5)   A description of all previous experience of the applicant in
providing cable television system service and in related or similar fields; and
      (6)   Any other details, statements, information or references pertinent
to the subject matter of such application which shall be required or requested
by the county executive or by any provision of any other ordinance of this
county.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a license, the county executive shall provide
the holding of a public hearing following reasonable notice to the public, at
which every applicant and its proposals shall be examined and the public and
all interested parties afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard. Proposed
licensees shall bear any publication costs.
   (C)   In making any determination hereunder as to any application, the
county executive shall give due consideration to the quality of the service
proposed, experience, character, background and the financial responsibility of
any applicant and its management and owners, willingness and ability to abide
by policy conditions, license limitations and requirements, and any other
considerations deemed pertinent to the county executive for safeguarding the
interest of the county and the public. The county executive, in its discretion,
shall determine the award of any license on the basis of these considerations
and without competitive bidding.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.04 ACCEPTANCE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license granted subsequent to this chapter shall become effective
30 days after passage by the county executive provided that the licensee within
30 days of passage of the license has filed with the county executive a written
instrument addressed to the county executive accepting the license and agreeing
to comply with all provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The term of the license shall be 25 years commencing on the effective
date of the license as provided in division (A) above; provided, that upon
written notice given by the county or licensee to the other not less than one
year prior to the twenty-fifth anniversary of the effective date, and after the
holding of a public hearing affording due process, the license may be renewed
for a reasonable term.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.05 LIMITATION UPON GRANT.
   (A)   No privilege or exception is granted or conferred by the issuance of a
license pursuant to this chapter except those specifically prescribed in it.
   (B)   Any license granted pursuant to this chapter is a privilege personal
to the original licensee. It cannot in any event be sold, transferred, leased,
assigned or disposed of as a whole or in part, or otherwise, without prior
written consent of the county executive and then only under such conditions as
may be prescribed; provided, however, that no such consent shall unreasonably
be withheld, and further provided, that no such consent shall be required for
any transfer in trust, mortgage or other hypothecation, as a whole or in part,
to secure an indebtedness of the licensee.
   (C)   There shall be no restrictions upon the transfer of a license to a
controlled subsidiary or to a parent corporation.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.06 CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   Permits and licenses. Within 180 days after acceptance of any license,
the licensee shall obtain all necessary permits and authorizations which are
required in the conduct of its business, including, but not limited to, any
utility joint use attachment agreements, microwave carrier licenses and any
other permits, licenses and authorizations to be granted by duly constituted
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the operation of cable television
systems or associated microwave transmission facilities.
   (B)   Time for commencement and completion of construction. Within 90 days
after obtaining all necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, including
rights of access to poles and conduits, the licensee shall commence
construction and installation of the cable television system. The construction
and installation of the cable television system within the territorial limits
of the county shall be on a reasonable and equitable basis. The completion of
the installation and construction of the cable system shall be pursued with
reasonable diligence, so that service to the area covered by the license shall
be provided within 18 months after construction has begun. Significant
construction shall be accomplished within one year after the licensee has
obtained all necessary permits, license and authorizations, including right of
access to poles and conduits.
   (C)   Extension of time. The county executive, in its discretion, may extend
the time for construction, installation and operation in the event the
licensee, acting in good faith, experiences delays by reason of circumstances
beyond its control.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.07 EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS, ALLEYS AND THE LIKE.
   All excavations in the streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public places
within the county shall require the prior approval of the County Highway
Superintendent; provided, however, that the Highway Supervisor may recommend
and the county executive may requite adequate assurance that such public way or
property be restored to its condition prior to such excavation. This assurance
may be in the form of a performance bond, or such other surety as the county
executive shall determine.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.08 SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   The licensee shall:
   (A)   Put, keep and maintain all parts of the cable television system in
good condition throughout the entire period of the license;
   (B)   Render efficient service, make repairs promptly and interrupt service
only for good cause, and for the shortest time possible. Interruptions, insofar
as possible, shall be preceded by notice given to subscribers 24 hours in
advance and shall occur during periods of minimum use of the cable system; and
   (C)   Upon request by the Country Executive, the licensee shall make a
demonstration satisfactory to him, her or it that a signal is being delivered
to any designated area which is of sufficient strength and quality to meet the
standards set forth in the regulations of the FCC.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.09 LOCAL OFFICE COMPLAINTS.
   The licensee shall maintain a local business office, or agent, which
subscribers may telephone during regular business hours without incurring added
message or toll charges, so that complaints regarding cable television
operations may be promptly reported to the licensee. Should a subscriber have
an unresolved complaint regarding cable television operations, the subscriber
shall be entitled to file his or her complaint with the county executive who
has primary responsibility for the continuing administration of the license and
the procedures for resolving complaints, and therefore to meet jointly with a
representative or the county executive and a representative of the licensee
within 30 days to fully discuss and resolve such matters. The licensee shall
notify each subscriber, at the time of initial subscription to the service of
the licensee, of the procedures for reporting and resolving such complaints.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.10 LICENSEE FEE.
   (A)   The licensee shall pay to the county a license fee equal to 3% of the
gross subscriber receipts commencing on the effective of this chapter, which
license fee shall be in lieu of all other county license fees.
   (B)   The licensee shall file with the County Auditor, within 45 days after
the expiration of each calendar year this license is in force, a financial
statement of the gross subscriber receipts of the preceding calendar year. It
shall be the duty of the licensee to pay to the County Auditor within 15 days
after the time for filing such statement, the sum hereinbefore prescribed or
any unpaid balance thereof for the calendar year covered by such statement. At
the request of the county executive, an adjustment based on a final annual
financial statement prepared by a certified public accountant shall be
submitted by the licensee and the amount due or the rebate authorized as a
result thereof shall be paid by the licensee or County Auditor.
   (C)   The licensee shall furnish the county executive, upon reasonable
request, such data as needed in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
   (D)   The county executive shall have the right to inspect the licensee’s
records during normal business hours showing the gross subscriber receipts from
which its license payments are computed and the right of audit and the
recomputation of any and all amounts paid under this license.
   (E)   Any willful neglect, omission or refusal of the licensee to file said
statement, or to pay said percentage in full, at the time or in the manner
hereto before provided, which willful neglect, omission or refusal shall
continue for more than 30 days following written notice thereof to the licensee
from the county executive shall be grounds for the termination of this license
as provided for in §
114.13.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.11 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   At all reasonable times, the licensee shall permit examination by any duly
authorized representative of the county executive of all license property,
together with any appurtenant property of the licensee situated within the
county.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.12 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The licensee shall pay all damages and penalties which the county may
legally be required to pay as a result of passage of this chapter.
   (B)   The licensee shall pay all expenses incurred by the county in
defending itself with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned above,
provided that the county executive promptly notifies the licensee of the
pendency of such damages, claims, actions or causes in action without
limitation. The expenses shall include all out-of-pocket expenses, such as
attorney fees.
   (C)   The licensee shall be required to secure and maintain in force for the
duration of the license general comprehensive liability insurance insuring
against all damages charged to the county or the licensee resulting from the
installation, development, maintenance or expansion of a licensee’s cable
television system. The county shall be named in all such policies as a co-
insured, or added thereon by endorsement as a named insured. A certificate of
insurance for each policy, as well as a copy of each policy shall be filed with
the County Auditor. Each certificate shall provide that, if the policy it
covers shall be cancelled by the insurance company on the licensee during the
term of the policy, ten days’ written notice prior to the effective date of
cancellation shall be given to the county executive.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.13 TERMINATION.
   (A)   The county executive may terminate any license granted subsequent to
this chapter in the event of the willful failure, refusal or neglect by the
licensee to do or comply with any material requirement or limitation contained
in this chapter.
   (B)   The county executive may make written demand that the licensee do or
comply with any such reasonable requirement, limitation, term, condition, rule
or regulation. If the willful failure, refusal or neglect of the licensee
continued for a period of 30 days following such written demand, a request for
termination of the license may be placed upon the county executive’s meeting
agenda. The county executive shall cause to be served upon such licensee at
least ten days prior to the date of such county executive meeting, a written
notice of intent to request such termination, and the time and place of the
meeting.
   (C)   The county executive shall consider the request and shall hear any
person interested therein, and shall determine whether or not any willful
failure, refusal or neglect by the licensee was with just cause.
   (D)   If such willful failure, refusal or neglect by a licensee was with
just cause, the county executive shall direct the licensee to comply with such
time and manner and upon such terms and conditions as are reasonable.
   (E)   If the county executive shall determine such willful failure, refusal
or neglect by a licensee was without just cause, then it may pass an ordinance
declaring that the license of such licensee shall be terminated and forfeited
unless there be compliance by the licensee within such reasonable period as the
county executive may fix.
   (F)   The termination and forfeiture of any license shall in no way affect
any of the rights of the county under the license or any provision of law.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 114.14 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS OF FCC.
   Any of the provisions or terms of this chapter shall be amended by the
county executive and made consistent with any new or amended rule or regulation
of the FCC if the new or amended rule or regulation of the FCC renders such
provisions or terms prohibited or inconsistent. These amendments shall be made
within one year of the effective day of the FCC rule amendment or modification.
Where amendment to FCC rules or other regulatory standards required
modification of any license granted pursuant to this chapter, the modifications
necessary to a affect compliance with FCC standards shall be made within one
year of the effective date of the FCC rule change or at the time of renewal of
the license, whichever occurs first.
(BC Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-1982)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
152.   ROAD IDENTIFICATION AND PROPERTY NUMBERING
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
154.   MINING
      
155.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
156.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Deposit of funds from subdivision plat approval fees
   
150.02   Criteria for sale of county farm ground
Comprehensive Plan
   
150.15   Adopted by reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS FROM SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL FEES.
   (A)   It is in the best interests of and will promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the county that 85% of funds received by the
county from subdivision plat approval fees since January 1, 2001 and subsequent
to this passage of the ordinance codified in this section shall be deposited
into the Plan Commission Fund under the Commissioners’ budget for use only to
promote and further the mandate given to the Advisory Plan Commission by the
Commissioners in Ord. 2001-20.
   (B)   The remaining 15% of the funds received from subdivision plat approval
fees shall be retained by the Building Department for administrative duties
associated with the subdivision approval process.
   (C)   Funds deposited into the Plan Commission Fund through this section and
not expended at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the General
County Fund.
(BC Ord. 2001-20, passed 6-13-2001)
§ 150.02 CRITERIA FOR SALE OF COUNTY FARM GROUND.
   In accepting a bid submitted by any individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity for county farm ground offered by sale by the Board of
Commissioners after the same has been declared surplus property, the Board of
Commissioners shall follow the criteria herein set forth.
   (A)   The successful bidder shall, through his or her proposed use of the
real property, enhance the real estate value of the surrounding properties and
increase the assessed value of any real property.
   (B)   The successful bidder shall, through his or her proposal use of the
property, generate increased property tax revenue for the county.
   (C)   The successful bidder agrees to construct a building of a minimum of
5,000 square feet and meet all local and state codes.
   (D)   The successful bidder agrees to employ a minimum of five employees
with a starting wage of at least $8 per hour.
   (E)   The successful bidder agrees to make use of available recycling
techniques in its manufacturing process and agrees not to do any on-site
dumping or cause pollution of any type.
   (F)   Successful bidders will represent light industry and light
manufacturers compatible with the area.
   (G)   Successful bidders are prohibited from subdividing any tract of
ground, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Property between two adjoining occupants to expand their sites; and
      (2)   A tract of at least five acres or more that will be for the purpose
of securing another new company meeting all restrictions, conditions and
criteria applicable to current occupants.
   (H)   Successful bidders are not permitted to purchase property without a
specific use or occupant for purpose of subdivision and/or speculation.
   (I)   Successful bidders may, however, build to suit and enter into long-
term leases with suitable tenants.
   (J)   Successful bidders will be responsible for hook-ups to water and gas,
plus construction of approved wastewater treatment systems and all must be
maintained in good working order.
   (K)   Successful bidders will pay at least the approved market value of the
property.
   (L)   Successful bidders shall not construct or maintain any individual
residences on the property.
   (M)   Successful bidders shall reimburse the county for the costs of
appraisals, surveys, deeds and any other costs incurred by the county in
connection with the sale of subject county farm ground.
   (N)   Successful bidders will have five years from the date of possession of
the land in which to meet the criteria set forth in divisions (C) and (D)
above.
(BC Ord. 1998-17, passed 9-8-1998; BC Ord. 1999-27, passed 4-19-1999)
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 150.15 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s comprehensive plan, copies of which are on file in the county
offices, is adopted by reference and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(BC Res. 2002-50, passed 2-7-2002; BC Res. 2022-018, passed 12-5-2022)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Scope
   
151.005   Authority
   
151.006   Severability
   
151.007   Effects of adoption on prior ordinances
Building Permits
   
151.020   Permit required   
   
151.021   Application for building permit
   
151.022   Review of application
   
151.023   Issuance of building permit
   
151.024   Renewal of building permit
   
151.025   Certificate of occupancy
Investigation and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
151.040   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
151.041   Inspections by Fire Department
   
151.042   Withhold issuance of permits
   
151.043   Permit revocation
   
151.044   Stop work order
   
151.045   Civil action
   
151.046   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
151.060   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.061   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Use of Engineered Roof Trusses and Floor Joists
   
151.075   Use of engineered roof trusses and floor joists
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of Owen County, Indiana”.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Building Code of the county is to protect the life,
public safety, health and general welfare of the citizens of the county, and
shall be construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions set forth in I.C. 22-12-1 et seq., as it may be
amended, are herein incorporated by reference.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
      BUILDING LAW. See I.C. 22-12-1-3.
      CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. See I.C. 22-12-1-4.
      CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. See I.C. 22-12-1-5.
      COMMISSION. See I.C. 22-12-1-6.
      CONSTRUCTION. See I.C. 22-12-1-7.
      EQUIPMENT LAW. See I.C. 22-12-1-11.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT. See I.C. 22-12-1-12.
      FIRE SAFELY LAW. See I.C. 22-12-1-13.
      INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. See I.C. 22-12-1-14.
      LAW. See I.C. 22-12-1-15.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. See I.C. 22-12-1-16.
      MOBILE STRUCTURE. See I.C. 22-12-1-17.
      PERSON. See I.C. 22-12-1-18.
      QUALIFIED ENTITY. See I.C. 22-12-1-18.7.
      REGULATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. See I.C. 22-12-1-19.1.
      REGULATED LIFTING DEVICE. See I.C. 22-12-1-22.
      REGULATED PLACE OF AMUSEMENT OR ENTERTAINMENT. See I.C. 22-12-1-23.
      STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
      VEHICULAR BRIDGE. See I.C. 22-12-1-26.
   (C)   One copy of I.C. 22-12-1 et seq., setting forth the definitions of the
above incorporated terms, is on file in the office of the County Building
Department and is available for public inspection.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this building chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this building chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this building chapter and the rules
promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to
any construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile
structure not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this building chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated pressure vessels or regulated lifting
devices.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.005 AUTHORITY.
   The County Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed, in order
to effectuate the purposes of the Building Code, to administer and enforce the
following:
   (A)   All provisions of the Building Code of the county;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7 et seq.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.006 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter or any license extended hereunder is for any reason held illegal,
invalid or unconstitutional by decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and
such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.007 EFFECTS OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   (A)   This chapter supersedes all other ordinances or parts of ordinances
which are in conflict with its provisions, and any such ordinance is hereby
repealed, more specifically Ords. 1992-10, 1999-36 and 1999-37.
   (B)   (1)   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of
any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights
or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   These rights, liabilities and other proceedings all continue as if
this subchapter had not been adopted.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning any construction,
alteration or repair of any building or structure which involves or affects
electrical, plumbing, ventilating, heating, air condition systems or structural
elements.
   (B)   This section shall not be interpreted to require a building permit
for:
      (1)   Cosmetic repairs; and
      (2)   The repair or maintenance of a private home by the occupant
thereof.
   (C)   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building
permit obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to the commencement of
construction.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.021 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a construction design release for the
work to be done that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance Officer
pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
      (5)   If the construction is downstream from a Department of Natural
Resources inspected dam the applicant must provide evidence that the dam has
been inspected within the previous two years;
      (6)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of the person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for the permit.
   (D)   All fees required by the Building Code shall be paid to the County
Building Department prior to the issuance of any building permit.
   (E)   The fee schedule for the Building Code is as follows:
Building Permit Fees
Class I Structures
Building Permit Fees
Class I Structures
Class I structures as defined by I.C.   $750 + $0.20 per square foot for over
22-12-1-4                               2,500 square feet
Additions or alterations to Class I     $450 + $0.20 per square foot for over
structures                              1,250 square feet
   Class II Structures
Class II structures as defined by I.C.  $200 + $0.10 per square foot for over
22-12-1-5(a)(1) (1 or 2 family dwelling 720 square feet
units)
Unfinished basements, buildings, or     $0.05 per square foot
garages
Additions or alterations to Class II    $125 + $0.10 per square foot for over
structures                              500 square feet
Class II structure as defined by I.C.   $100 + $0.05 per square foot for over
22-12-1-5(a)(2) (garage, barn, swimming 200 square feet
pool)
   Other
Demolition permit                       $50
Electrical - Class I structure          $100
Electrical - Class II structure         $75
Re-inspection                           $25
Renewal - one year extension            80% of the original fee
Renewal - six month extension           40% of the original fee
Wireless communication facilities       $750
 
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013; BC Ord. 2023-014, passed 10-2-2023)
Cross-reference:
   See also §
40.032
§ 151.022 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Receive the approval from the County Health Department of compliance
with appropriate local, state or federal septic and/or sewage system laws on
regulations and shall review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this Code;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to ensure that the plans are in accordance with
appropriate local, state and federal laws and regulations and in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by a state architect and the proposed
building site shall be reasonably safe from flooding; and
   (C)   Review building permit applications for compliance with the county
ordinance for flood hazard areas (as codified in Chapter 153 of this code of
ordinances) and compliance any other federal, state or local laws pertaining to
flood hazards.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.023 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person
after the person submitted a complete application, including any applicable
fee, provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable
building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
   (B)   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all
other laws pertaining thereto and, in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed by such laws.
   (C)   A permit shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner must be notified of any alteration of
construction drawings, methods, and/or material prior to being implemented.
Failure to notify is subject to a fine.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013; BC Ord. 2023-014, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.024 RENEWAL OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   If construction is not complete as of the date of expiration of the permit,
the permittee may request a renewal of the permit. The request for renewal must
be made on the forms provided by the Building Commissioner. The work to be
completed shall be done in the same manner as the original permit.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.025 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any structure erected, altered or repaired,
after the effective date of this Code, shall be issued unless such structure
was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the provisions of this
Code. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such structure unless a full, partial
or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building
Commissioner. Use of a swimming pool without final inspection and approval is
subject to a fine.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013; BC Ord. 2023-014, passed 10-2-2023)  Penalty, see §
151.999
INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 151.040 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner shall
make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are
necessary to ensure full compliance of the work being done as of this Code and
the terms of the permit. All construction shall be subject to periodic
inspections by the Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building
permit has been or is required to be obtained. Re-inspections of work found to
be incomplete or not ready for inspection are subject to assessment of re-
inspection fees as prescribed in this Code. Continuation of work without a
required inspection and approval is subject to a fine. Failure to allow entry
for inspections is subject to a fine. Failure to have work ready for a
scheduled inspection is subject to a fine and reinspection fee.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013; BC Ord. 2023-014, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.041 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and Fire Department shall work cooperatively to
conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire safety
laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct inspections and
take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.)
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.042 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A person who fails to apply for and receive a permit prior to
beginning any construction is subject to a fine which is further set forth
below:
      (1)   One hundred and fifty dollars if the permit is obtained within
seven days of being notified of the failure to obtain the required permit; and
      (2)   Two hundred and fifty dollars if the permit is obtained eight days
or more after being notified of the failure to obtain the required permit.
   (B)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees, including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees or inspection fees owed pursuant to this Code
to the Building Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may withhold the
issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is
satisfied.
   (C)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.043 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is a failure to comply with the building chapter; and
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.044 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agents.
      (5)   The stop work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commission may issue a stop work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this building chapter or
any state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this building chapter or
in such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a
reasonable probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the
violation; and
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this building chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.045 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the county may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this building chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.046 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this building chapter
shall have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this building
chapter may appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in
accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
county that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14,
I.C. 22-15, a fire safety or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this building chapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the tune period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the Building
Department may appeal as in other civil actions. The appellant must, by
registered mail, give the County Executive a 15-day written notice of his or
her intention to appeal. This notice must concisely state the appellants
grievance. If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the county has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with said ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, the
person may petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.060 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title
675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in
this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
General Administrative Rules    675 I.A.C. 12
Indiana Building Code           675 I.A.C. 13
Indiana Residential Code        675 I.A.C. 14
Industrialized Building Systems 675 I.A.C. 15
Plumbing Code                   675 I.A.C. 16
Mechanical Code                 675 I.A.C. 18
Energy Conservation Code        675 I.A.C. 19
Swimming Pool Code              675 I.A.C. 20
Fire Code                       675 I.A.C. 22
Recreational Facilities         675 I.A.C. 23
Supplementary Fire Safety Rules 675 I.A.C. 24
Fuel Gas Code                   675 I.A.C. 25
                                675 I.A.C. 12; 675 I.A.C. 13; 675 I.A.C. 14;
NFPA Standards                  675 I.A.C. 17; 675 I.A.C. 22; 675 I.A.C. 26;
                                and 675 I.A.C. 28
 
(B)   The following rules and/or ordinances are further incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
 
County Flood BC Ord. 1992-10; BC Ord. 1994-6; and BC Ord. 2001-8, subsequent
Management   amendments to any of the aforementioned ordinances
Ordinances
Housing and  Subpart I-Dwelling Unit; Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy
Urban        Standards, Inspection and Maintenance § 982.401 Housing Quality
Development  Standards (HQS)
 
   (C)   One copy of the above building rules incorporated by reference are on
file in the office of the County Building Department and are available for
public inspection.
   (D)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (E)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this building chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 151.061 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards apply to lifting devices
located within a private residence and are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevator, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME a17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASMEA18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
   (B)   One copy of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the County Building Department and are
available for public inspection.
   (C)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
USE OF ENGINEERED ROOF TRUSSES AND FLOOR JOISTS
§ 151.075 USE OF ENGINEERED ROOF TRUSSES AND FLOOR JOISTS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies only to new construction of a Class 1
structure and a Class 2 structure.
   (B)   (1)   As used in this subchapter, ENGINEERED LUMBER ROOF TRUSSES AND/
OR FLOOR JOISTS refers to a structural assembly that:
         (a)   Is fabricated from:
            1.   Wood;
            2.   Light gauge metal;
            3.   Other component materials; or
            4.   Any combination of materials described in divisions (B)(1)
(a)1. through (B)(1)(a)3. above.
         (b)   Has less mass cross sectional area than sawn lumber members that
would be used in an equivalent application;
         (c)   Is assembled from combustible or noncombustible materials, or
both; and
         (d)   Is not a vertical member and supports a roof or floor, or both.
      (2)   The term does not include a structural assembly that provides a
minimum of one hour fire resistance when tested in accordance with ASTM
Standard E119.
      (3) As used in this subchapter, OWNER means a person having control or
custody of any structure to which this subchapter applies.
   (C)   (1)   A structure that contains engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists must have a placard affixed to the structure that meets the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   The placard shall use yellow reflective coding and lettering that
identifies both of the following:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and floor joists
used in the structure, including truss or engineered lumber; and
         (b)   The location of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure including floor joists or truss roof systems.
      (3)   The placard may not be:
         (a)   Smaller than three and one-half inches by four and one-half
inches; and
         (b)   Larger than five inches by five and one-half inches.
   (D)   The placard must be permanently affixed:
      (1)   Below the structure’s electrical meter, if the structure has
electrical service; or
      (2)   On the left side of the front entrance four to six feet above the
ground, if the structure does not have electrical service.
   (E)   (1)   An applicant for a building permit must indicate on the
application:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure; and
         (b)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure.
      (2)   The application form for a building permit must include a place on
the form for providing the information under division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   An applicant for a building permit shall not be issued a building
permit unless the individual at the time of the application is issued:
         (a)   A placard by the Building Commissioner; and
         (b)   A fee, not to exceed $5, may be charged for each placard issued.
   (F)   Unless a placard is affixed to the structure that meets the
requirements of this subchapter, the Building Commissioner shall not:
      (1)   Approve a structure on final inspection; or
      (2)   Issue a certificate of occupancy for a structure.
   (G)   (1)   Not later than ten business days after issuing a building
permit, the Building Commissioner shall send written notification to the local
fire department and the 911 telephone call center that has jurisdiction in the
area where the structure is located. The notification shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   The notification must include the following information:
         (a)   The street address of the property;
         (b)   The name of the municipality and county in which the structure
is located;
         (c)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure; and
         (d)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists by area within the structure.
   (H)   Upon receiving a copy of the notification under division (G) above,
the Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief’s designee shall:
      (1)   Post the information in a conspicuous place for all emergency
personnel;
      (2)   Provide the information to any fire department providing mutual
aid; and
      (3)   For Class 1 structures only, add the structure to the inspection
file for follow up on a timely basis for inspection.
   (I)   Upon receiving a notification under division (G) above, the 911
telephone call center shall maintain the information on each property, by the
address of the property, that uses engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists. When dispatching to the listed address, the dispatcher shall notify the
responding units of the information.
   (J)   An owner of a structure shall ensure that the placard remains affixed
to the structure during the life of the structure.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following table details specific violations and the fines
associated therewith. Each day a specified violation continues constitutes a
separate offense.
Violation Fines
Violation Fines
Type of Violation                    First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
Alteration of construction drawings,
methods, and/or material without     $100          $150           $2,500
notification to Building
Commissioner
Construction without a permit        $300          $500           $1,000
Continuing work after stop order has $2,500        $5,000         $10,000
been issued
Continuing work without an           $100          $250           $500
inspection and approval of same
Failure to allow entry per §        $100          $250           $300
151.040
Occupying dwelling (or portion under
construction) without final          $250          $500           $1,000
inspection and approval of the same
Use of swimming pool without final   $250          $500           $1,000
inspection and approval of same
Work not ready for scheduled         $50           $100           $250
inspections
 
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified, any person violating any provision of this
building chapter may be subject to a fine of $250 per day not to exceed $2,500.
Each day of such unlawful activity constitutes a separate offense. Any such
action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties provided for in this code, plus the cost of filing and
reasonable attorney fees. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way
limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this building
chapter.
   (C)   If the Building Commissioner provides written notice to an owner that
the owner has failed to install or maintain a placard on the structure in
violation of §
151.075; and the owner fails to correct the violation not later than ten
business days after receiving the written notice; the owner is liable for a
civil penalty of not more than $100 per day during the period beginning ten
business days after the owner receives written notice of the violation from the
Building Commissioner and until the date the violation is corrected. A penalty
imposed under this division (B) may not exceed $3,000 per structure, per year.
(BC Ord. passed 8-19-2013; BC Ord. 2023-014, passed 10-2-2023)
CHAPTER 152: ROAD IDENTIFICATION AND PROPERTY NUMBERING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Applicability of subchapter
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   General scope and intent
   
152.04   Limitations; nonsupersession of powers of incorporated municipalities;
conformance of municipal regulations with county regulations
Administration
   
152.15   Preparation of map; purchase and installation of signs
   
152.16   Naming public or private roads; change of name; procedure
   
152.17   New roads and developments
   
152.18   Numbering of addresses
   
152.19   Map preparation; compensation
   
152.20   Administration; responsibility
   
152.21   Sale and free distribution of maps
Regulation and Procedures
   
152.35   Duties of property owner or occupant
   
152.36   Implementation
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter, unless otherwise indicated, also apply to
govern, and refer to matters contained in §§
152.15 through
152.21.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Unless clearly referring to another body, means a County Planning
Commission, or if there is no Planning Commission, the County Board of
Commissioners.
   COUNTY EXECUTIVE. For purposes of this subchapter, means the presiding
officer of the Board of Commissioners, the regularly designated President or
one of the Board members as selected among themselves.
   NAME. As used to signify the identification of a county road, shall include,
but not necessarily be limited to, the section line number(s).
   OWNER. Includes the property owner, operator or occupant of a residence or
facility.
   PERMIT. The document issued by agencies in incorporated and in
unincorporated areas of the county granting authority to erect, alter, replace
or tear down structures that are or were residences or places of doing
business.
   RESIDENCE. Includes a place of residence, a facility, farm or place of doing
business.
   STREET or ROAD. Also includes the use of any of the several thoroughfare
designations, is not intended as a locational device. Designations as streets,
roads or other thoroughfares are considered interchangeable in §§
152.15 through
152.21,
152.35 and
152.36.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.03 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
dispensable powers and procedure reasonably needed to facilitate the function
and administration of street naming and house numbering to enable people to
locate addresses readily.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.04 LIMITATIONS; NONSUPERSESSION OF POWERS OF INCORPORATED MUNICIPALITIES;
CONFORMANCE OF MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS WITH COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the powers of
any incorporated municipality to adopt and maintain a street naming and
property numbering system. However, there are many practical reasons for
adopting a uniform system which is encouraged, and, unless and until an
incorporated municipality adopts a street naming and property numbering system,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.15 PREPARATION OF MAP; PURCHASE AND INSTALLATION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The County Planning Commission or the county executive may authorize
the preparation of maps designating the county roads by number and name.
   (B)   The county executive shall authorize the purchase of signs showing the
name of county roads, as designated on the road identification map. Such signs
will be installed and maintained at county road intersections and at
intersections with state roads by the County Highway Department.
   (C)   The reference axes in the county shall be the township section lines
which are north-south or east-west axis lines measured in miles from the
courthouse.
   (D)   County roads located between township section lines shall be
identified, to the nearest tenth of a mile, in multiples of five.
   (E)   On wandering or crooked roads, the beginning and ending section line
numbers shall be included in the road number. No duplicate road names will be
permitted; however, interrupted roads along the same general line or plane
should keep the same name.
   (F)   Commonly accepted road names in use may be identified and retained, in
addition to road numbers.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990; BC Ord. 2009-014, passed 8- -2009)
§ 152.16 NAMING PUBLIC OR PRIVATE ROADS; CHANGE OF NAME; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any public or private road within the unincorporated area of the
county may be officially named, or existing names changed, by the Board of
Commissioners upon petition of 60% of the property owners whose property is
serviced by the public or private road proposed to be affected, upon
recommendation by the Planning Commission, or upon a resolution by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The petition shall be set for hearing, and notice of such hearing
shall be given by sending notice by certified mail to the property owners
affected by the change and by publishing notice of the hearing in the local
newspapers. Such notices shall be given ten days prior to the hearing. The
costs for such notification shall be borne by the petitioner. At the time set
for the hearing or at any time to which the hearing may be continued, the Board
shall hear and consider proposals to adopt a name for, or change the name of,
such road, and upon adoption or change thereof shall adopt by resolution of the
Board and order officially designating the name for said road. Thereafter, such
road shall be known by the name so designated.
   (C)   The costs for the erection of the signage upon the roadways for the
change of the road name or the official naming of a private roadway shall be
borne by the petitioner. The cost for such signage shall be at the rate of $100
per sign and all fees collected in association with shall be deposited into the
County Road Sign Fund #292. These costs shall be collected at the same time of
filing of the petition. If the county executive deems that the road name shall
not be changed, then the funds will be refunded to the petitioner. The signs
shall be erected by the County Highway Department.
   (D)   The numbers in the names of public or private roads are measurements
of distance from an axis, not an arbitrary identification, and not subject to
change.
   (E)   All names or name changes shall be reported to the Assessor, and the
Municipal Clerk if appropriate, for recording.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990; BC Ord. 2009-014, passed 8- -2009)
§ 152.17 NEW ROADS AND DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Developers shall be required to furnish prints of a preliminary site
plan with a list of proposed street names and block numbers for review.
   (B)   Before endorsing and returning this plan to the developer, the county
shall review for duplication or similarities to existing names. If there are
duplications or unacceptable similarities, the plan shall be returned to the
developer, within five working days, for correction.
   (C)   If there are no duplications or required corrections, the street names
and number blocks in tenths of a mile shall be reserved at this time for a
period not to exceed one year, subject to renewal upon request.
   (D)   Recorded names shall be superseded by official road names. Even if a
subdivision plat is recorded with a different name than that already assigned
by a municipality or the county, the recording does not affect the official
name of the street. Nevertheless, if there is no street with the name assigned
to the subdivision plat, the Board cannot require the name on the recorded plat
of a subdivision to be changed.
   (E)   Proposed new road names and numbers shall be reported to the County
Assessor, and Municipal Clerk if appropriate, by the proposing agency or
organization for approval.
   (F)   Developers or builders shall assume all costs of street or road naming
and property numbering. This includes, but is not limited to, the purchase and
installation of road signs that meet federal, state and county specifications.
The cost of such signage shall be at the rate of $100 per sign and all fees
collected in association with shall be deposited in the County Road Sign Fund
#292. These costs shall be collected at the time of the filing of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat. The signs shall be erected by the
County Highway Department.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990; BC Ord. 2009-014, passed 8- -2009)
§ 152.18 NUMBERING OF ADDRESSES.
   (A)   The numbering of residences on all state, county and private roads, as
contracted by the county executive, shall, conform with numbering on streets in
cities located in the county; or, if there are no official property numbering
guidelines in cities located in the county, with the guidance in this chapter.
(I.C. 8-17-8-1)
   (B)   Numbering of residences or other addresses along streets or roads in
incorporated areas or unincorporated areas shall be by increasing numbers, even
numbers on the easterly or southerly side, odd numbers on the westerly or
northerly side, as distance from the county seat increases. Residence numbers
in each mile of roads in unincorporated areas shall be in miles, tenths of
miles and hundredths of miles and approximate the linear distance from the next
appropriate lesser axis section line.
   (C)   New construction permits will show the official address when issued.
This address remain reserved for up to one year and may be renewed upon
request.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.19 MAP PREPARATION; COMPENSATION.
   The county executive shall direct the County Engineer to prepare maps. The
County Engineer may be compensated in addition to the salary the Engineer
receives for preparation of the maps, in an amount to be determined by the
County Planning Commission or by the county executive, subject to the approval
of the County Council. All expenses incidental to the preparation of the maps,
including the County Engineer’s compensation, shall be paid out of the County
General Fund.
(I.C. 8-17-8-2) (BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.20 ADMINISTRATION; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The county executive shall establish the system by the preparation of
a map and computer lists showing road identification and property numbers.
   (B)   Upon the implementation of the system, the map and lists shall become
the responsibility of the County Assessor and Municipal Clerks as appropriate,
to be administered and maintained as permanent records, either by computer or
manual listings.
   (C)   Changes to road identification maps shall be updated as often as and
in the same manner as the County Assessor’s maps are required to be updated.
   (D)   Changes to computer lists of road identifications and computer lists
of property numbers shall be accomplished by the completion of change sheets
which shall be retained until the master list is updated. Computer generated
sub-listings may be maintained and updated daily for convenience in managing
data. The input of new data into the master lists from the change sheets shall
be accomplished at least as often as the County Assessor’s maps are required to
be updated. Printed copies of superseded master lists shall be retained for one
year.
   (E)   Changes to manual road identification lists and manual property number
lists shall be accomplished by the completion of a change sheet which shall be
retained until the list is updated. Lists shall be updated at least as often as
the County Assessor’s maps are required to be updated. Copies of superseded
manual lists shall be retained for one year.
   (F)   A change sheet shall be identified as a road identification change
sheet, a property numbering change sheet or both a road identification and
property numbering change sheet, and shall be filed with the document(s) which
it changes as the topmost document by most recent date. It shall consist of
columns which identify the property by name of the owner or resident, the
former (old) property address, the current (new) property number address, the
former road name, the new road identification and the date of the change.
   (G)   Lists of names and addresses shall be protected as under the Federal
Privacy Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 552a and will not be released to third parties
outside county government agencies.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.21 SALE AND FREE DISTRIBUTION OF MAPS.
   The maps shall be available to all units of government free of charge. The
maps shall be available to the general public at a charge to be determined by
the County Planning Commission or county executive. Any money received from the
sale of maps shall be deposited in the County General Fund.
(I.C. 8-17-8-3) (BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
REGULATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 152.35 DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of official notification of the official address stating
the name or number of a county road and the number of the residence, the
property owner or occupant shall use the official address and shall display the
official name and number address as directed herein.
   (B)   Address numerals shall be displayed on rural and curbside mailboxes.
They may also be attached to the facade of a residence or business in a manner
as to be legible and distinguishable from the road. When the building is too
distant or otherwise obscured from view from the road, the numerals shall be
attached to a sign at the road side unless the rural mail box is available in
front of the residence or beside the entrance road to the residence.
   (C)   Any cost of numbering or renumbering shall be the responsibility of
the owner, operator or occupant of the residence or business.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.36 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Initial notification of the implementation of this property numbering
system shall be made by first class mail, not later than 30 days prior to the
effective date, and shall be addressed to the occupant of each parcel using
both the old and the new address.
   (B)   Notification letters will include guidance to the property owner as to
who he or she is responsible to notify of this address change.
   (C)   Notification of the county-wide address change will be given the
widest possible media coverage.
   (D)   A minimum of one public location in each township will be selected and
a new map will be posted in the location not later than 30 days before the
effective date of implementation of this system.
   (E)   County offices will use dual addresses for six months on all
correspondence, documents and records. That is, both the old (former) and new
(current) address will be used.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure of occupant to use, and display as directed, the official name
and number address, or to do so in a manner as to appear to be illegible or
indistinguishable to authorities, shall subject the occupant to penalty.
   (B)   When it is determined that the use of and display of an official
address number is not the current official address and it is not legible and
distinguishable from the road on which it is located, the occupant shall be
officially notified by the complaining authority that he or she has 30 days to
comply with this chapter.
   (C)   If, after reinspection of the display, the occupant is still not in
compliance with this chapter, the occupant shall be liable for committing a
Class A misdemeanor.
(BC Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-25-1990)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
153.001   Statutory authority
   
153.002   Findings of fact
   
153.003   Statement of purpose
   
153.004   Objectives
Definitions
   
153.015   Definitions
General Provisions
   
153.030   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.031   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
153.032   Establishment of floodplain development permits
   
153.033   Compliance
   
153.034   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.035   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.036   Interpretation
   
153.037   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.038   Effective date
Administration
   
153.050   Designation of Administrator
   
153.051   Permit procedures
   
153.052   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.065   General standards
   
153.066   Specific standards
   
153.067   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.068   Critical facility
   
153.069   Standards for identified floodways
   
153.070   Standards for identified fringe
   
153.071   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodway/fringe
   
153.072   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
153.085   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.086   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.087   Variance procedures
   
153.088   Conditions for variances
   
153.089   Variance notification
   
153.090   Historic structure
   
153.091   Special conditions
 
   
153.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 153.001 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
County Commissioners does hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the national
flood insurance program.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains; and
   (F) To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Owen River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision, for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the flood- proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or alter June 1, 1997 will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR) and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for everyone square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such openings
shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade
immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, The REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION at any location is
as defined in §
153.031. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of Owen County
are generally identified as such on the Owen County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated March 3, 2014 as well as any future
updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.030 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the county.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.031 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood.
   (B)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county shall be as delineated on
the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Owen
County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated March 3, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, delineated as an “A Zone”
on the Owen County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated March 3, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the State Department of Natural Resources for review,
subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.032 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.033 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.034 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.035 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.036 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.037 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the county, the State Department of Natural Resources
or the state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.038 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect on March 3, 2014.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.050 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Commissioners hereby appoints the Building Inspector to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.051 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. Application for a floodplain development permit shall be
made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to
any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the
following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Required information. Specifically, the following information is
required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See §
153.052(B)(6) for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon establishment/placement of the lowest
floor, before framing continues, to include any approved floodproofing, it
shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a
particular structure said certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the floodproofing
certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. (The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data
submitted.) The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by such review
before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop
work order for the project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the
elevation certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation survey
data submitted. The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected by such
review. Failure to submit the elevation certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, a FEMA
elevation certificate, Form 81-31, which depicts all finished construction, is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, a FEMA floodproofing certificate, Form 81-65,
is required to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.052 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
153.069 and
153.071(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5) Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.051;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
153.051;
      (13)   Stop work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.065 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.066 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the requirements of §
153.065, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or nonresidential structure (or manufactured home) shall either have
the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two feet
above the base flood elevation) or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of division (D) below.
      (2)   Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
153.052(B)(12); and
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   (a)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by
foundation and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be
designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry
and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls.
         (b)   Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each
opening, whichever is higher;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
            4.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
            5.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
            6.   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method, which shall be retained in permit
file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.067 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.068 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.069 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.031, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the State Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river, floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
State Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in the
floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
153.065 through
153.072 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive
regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.070 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
153.065 through
153.072 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.071 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAY/FRINGE.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the State Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
153.065 through
153.072 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
153.065 through
153.072 have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.072 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
153.065 through
153.072.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.085 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.086 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the county circuit court.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.087 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.088 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
153.069 and
153.071(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
153.069 and
153.071(A) will require a permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.069 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
153.089.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request (See §
153.089.)
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.089 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner to that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.090 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.091 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
153.085 through
153.091, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as
such in accordance with the provisions of the zoning code for the county.
   (C)   All violations shall be punishable by a fine of $200 and not more than
$2,500 per day per violation.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(BC Ord. 2014-0004, passed 2- -2014)
CHAPTER 154: MINING
Section
   
154.01   Application
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Permit required
   
154.04   Permit application
   
154.05   Permit Review Committee
   
154.06   County Commissioners action on application
   
154.07   Other permit conditions
   
154.08   Bond
   
154.09   Violations and suspensions
   
154.10   Permit renewal
   
154.11   Inspections
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A coal surface mining operation or any other surface mining
operation that is required to have a mining and reclamation permit issued by
the State Department of Natural Resources; and
      (2)   A surface mining operation in an area where the overburden is less
than ten feet in depth and that will affect less than one acre of affected land
during the permit year.
   (B)   A separate application and permit is required for each noncontiguous
surface mining operation.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFECTED LAND. Includes the following:
      (1)   The pit area or area from which overburden has been removed or upon
which the overburden has been deposited;
      (2) The area upon which are sited structures, facilities, or incidental
to, surface mining reclamation operations; and
      (3)   The area covered by new or existing roads used to gain access to,
or for hauling natural deposits to or from surface mining or reclamation
operations.
   COMMITTEE. The permit review committee established by the Commissioners
under this chapter.
   COMMISSIONERS. The County Commissioners of Owen County.
   NATURAL DEPOSITS. A natural accumulation of at least one of the following:
      (1)   Sand;
      (2)   Gravel;
      (3)   Limestone;
      (4)   Dolomite;
      (5)   Anhydrite; and
      (6)   Gypsum.
   OPERATOR. A person who has been granted a permit under this chapter.
   OVERBURDEN. All of the earth and other materials:
      (1)   That lie above natural deposits; and
      (2)   Disturbed from their natural state in the process of surface
mining.
   PEAK. A projecting point of overburden created in the surface mining
process.
   PERSON. Includes an individual and any business entity.
   PIT. The place where natural deposits are being or have been mined by
surface mining.
   REFUSE. All waste material directly connected with the cleaning and
preparation of a substance mined by surface mining.
   RIDGE. A lengthened elevation of overburden created in the surface mining
process.
   SURFACE MINING. The mining of natural deposits:
      (1)   By removing overburden lying above the natural deposits and mining
directly from the natural deposits; and
      (2)   That are exposed and are not coveted by overburden.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   After November 15, 1995, a person may not open, develop, operate or extend a
new or previously mined or abandoned site for surface mining operations in this
county unless the person has a valid permit granted under this chapter.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Before a person may engage in surface mining the person shall
pay the fee under division (C) below and make a verified written application to
the Commissioners.
      (2)   The application must include the following:
         (a)   The complete name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The complete name of each owner, partner, principle investor who
owns at least 10% of the voting stock, operator, officer and director of the
proposed surface mining operation, including any person who has authority,
directly or indirectly, to determine the manner that an applicant, an operator
or other person conducts the surface mining operation;
         (c)   The location and date of operation of each surface mining
operation that each owner, partner, principle investor, officer and director of
the proposed surface mining operation has been involved with in the previous
ten years;
         (d)   A list related to the operations listed under division (A)(2)(c)
above detailing any previous or pending:
            1.   Fines and citations by any governmental unit;
            2.   Violations of state law;
            3.   Civil and criminal lawsuits and bankruptcies;
            4.   Insurance damage claims; and
            5.   Forfeitures of surety bonds or letters of credit.
         (e)   A description of the land and the estimated number of acres to
be affected the proposed surface mining operation for the next succeeding 12
months. The description must describe the land, with sufficient certainty to
locate and distinguish the land from other lands and it must include the
section, township and range of the land;
         (f)   A statement of ownership of the land to be affected and of the
natural deposits to be mined;
         (g)   The nature, depth and proposed disposition of the overburden;
         (h)   The estimated depth to which the natural deposits will be mined;
         (i)   The location of existing roads and anticipated access and main
haulage roads planned to be constructed in conducting the mining operations;
         (j)   The techniques and equipment to be used in surface mining and
reclamation;
         (k)   Whether any core drillings have been conducted or are planning
to be conducted on the proposed surface;
         (l)   A reclamation plan and map that designates which parts of the
lands to be affected will be reclaimed for forest, pasture, agriculture,
homesites, recreational, industrial or other purposes. The plan must include:
            1.   A detailed timetable for compliance with the reclamation plan;
and
            2.   Plans for the storage of all overburden and refuse.
         (m)   An estimate of the cost of reclamation;
         (n)   A detailed description of the measures to be taken during the
surface mining and reclamation process to ensure the protection of the
following:
            1.   The quality of surface and ground water both on-site and off-
site, from adverse effects of the mining and reclamation process;
            2.   The rights of present users to the surface and ground water
systems; and
            3.   The public health, safety and property, including protection
from air and noise pollution.
         (o)   The effects the surface mining operation may have on properties
or sites listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic
Places or the state register of historic sites and structures. If historic
sites or properties are identified the applicant must include a plan to
mitigate the effects of the surface mining operation upon those sites and
properties.
   (B)   An application filed with the Commissioners under this chapter is a
public document.
   (C)   The application under this chapter must include a non-refundable
application fee of $100 plus $25 for each whole acre of the area of land to be
affected by the proposed surface mining operation.
   (D)   Not more than three days after the application is filed under this
chapter, the applicant shall mail to each adjacent property owner and cause to
be published a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where
the proposed surface mining operation is located. The notice must include the
following information:
      (1)   A statement that an application for a surface mining permit has
been filed;
      (2)   The name of the applicant;
      (3)   The location of the proposed surface mining operation including its
proximity to the nearest public roads; and
      (4)   The estimated number of acres to be affected.
   (E)   (1)   Not more than 28 days after notice is published under division
(D) above, the Commissioners shall do the following:
         (a)   Appoint a Permit Review Committee; and
         (b)   Set a date for the Permit Review Committee to hold its first
meeting on the application.
      (2)   At the Commissioners’ discretion, the Committee may be appointed
for a fixed period of time to review all applications or appointed on an
application by application basis.
   (F)   After the Commissioners have set the date for the first meeting of the
Committee, the applicant shall cause to be published, at the applicant’s
expense, a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
proposed surface mining operation is located, that meets the following
requirements:
      (1)   The notice contains the information required in the notice under
division (D) above;
      (2)   The notice contains the date, time and location of the Committee’s
first meeting; and
      (3)   The notice is published 21, 14 and seven days before the date of
the Committee meeting.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.05 PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   (1)   The Permit Review Committee consists of five individuals that
include the following:
         (a)   The County Surveyor, or the County Surveyor’s designee, who
shall serve as Chairperson of the Committee;
         (b)   The County Road Supervisor, or the County Road Supervisor’s
designee, who shall serve as Vice-Chairperson of the Committee;
         (c)   One County Commissioner appointed by the Commissioners;
         (d)   One county resident with knowledge in the area of mining,
reclamation, geology, hydrology, civil engineering or another technical field
that the Commissioners believe would be useful to the Committee; and
         (e)   One county resident who owns property in the county.
      (2)   A member of the Committee may not have a personal or financial
interest in the lands affected by the permit application.
   (B)   The Committee:
      (1)   May do the following:
         (a)   Inspect the lands that are part of the application for the
permit;
         (b)   Require additional information related to the information and
proposed surface mining operation from the applicant; and
         (c)   Hold additional public meetings on the permit application.
      (2)   Shall do the following:
         (a)   Review the permit application;
         (b)   Allow testimony from the applicant and any other interested
parties;
         (c)   Prepare a written report to the Commissioners that contains
recommendations that are approved by a majority of the Committee members
present concerning the following:
            1.   Whether or not the permit should be granted. The Committee may
only recommend denial of a permit for the reasons listed in division (C) below.
The report must state the specific reasons for the denial recommendation;
            2.   The amount of the applicant’s surety bond or irrevocable
letter of credit; and
            3.   Any other conditions in the permit to assure that the
application site is properly reclaimed and that the public heath and safety,
other property and the environment is not harmed.
   (C)   The Committee may only recommend the denial of an application for the
following reasons:
      (1)   The applicant’s reclamation plan does not assure adequate
reclamation of the affected areas;
      (2)   The applicant’s reclamation or surface mining operation, as
planned, will likely cause a danger to the public safety, public health,
property or environment;
      (3)   The Committee has been denied access to inspect the lands which are
part of the application for the permit; and
      (4)   The applicant has not provided the information required to be in
the application under §
154.04 or has not provided additional information requested by the Committee.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.06 COUNTY COMMISSIONERS ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Not less than 21 days after the Committee has prepared its written
report, the Commissioners must hold a meeting to do the following:
      (1)   Review the permit application;
      (2)   Review the Committee’s report;
      (3)   Allow testimony from the applicant and any other interested
parties; and
      (4)   Vote on the permit application. However, the Commissioners may vote
at a subsequent meeting if the Commissioners request additional information or
testimony.
   (B)   If the Commissioners vote to approve the permit application, the
Commissioners must:
      (1)   Determine any other conditions required in the permit; and
      (2)   Determine the amount of the surety bond or irrevocable letter of
credit to be required of the applicant. The amount of the surety bond or
irrevocable letter of credit must be sufficient to ensure completion of the
reclamation plan if the work had to be completed by the Commissioners if
forfeiture occurs, but the amount may not exceed $5,000 per acre.
   (C)   (1)   If the Commissioners vote to deny the application, the
Commissioners must state the reasons for denial. The Commissioners may only
deny an application for the following reasons:
         (a)   The applicant’s reclamation plan does not assure adequate
reclamation of the affected lands;
         (b)   The applicant’s reclamation or surface mining operation, as
planned, will likely cause a danger to the public safety, public health,
property or environment;
         (c)   The Commission or Committee has been denied access to inspect
the lands which are part of the application for the permit; and
         (d)   The applicant has not provided the information required to be in
the application under §
154.04 or has not provided additional information requested by the Commission
or Committee.
      (2)   An applicant whose application has been denied may reapply for a
permit under §
154.04.
   (D)   If the Commissioners have required a surety bond or irrevocable letter
of credit for an approved permit application, the operator may not begin
surface mining operations until the operator has posted a bond or irrevocable
letter of credit that meets the requirements of this chapter and the permit.
   (E)   A permit granted by the Commissioners may not be sold, transferred or
assigned to another person without the prior approval of the Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 OTHER PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Except as modified or waived in the permit granted to the operator by
the Commissioners, the operator must meet the following requirements with
respect to:
      (1)   The reclamation of the land where the surface mining is allowed:
         (a)   All ridges and end peaks of overburden created by surface mining
within 100 feet of a public road, street or highway must be graded to a rolling
topography traversable by machines necessary for maintenance in accordance with
planned use. However, the slopes do not need to be reduced to less than the
original grade of that area prior to mining.
         (b)   On land that is planned to be reforested, the operator shall
level all ridges and peaks overburdened to a minimum width of 20 feet at the
top.
         (c)   On land that is planned to be seeded into pasture, the operator
shall level all ridges and peaks of overburden to a minimum width of 20 feet at
the top;
         (d)   On land that is planned to be used for agricultural crops,
including hay and orchards, the operator shall grade the peaks and ridges of
overburden in a manner that will allow the area to be traversed with farm
machinery reasonably necessary for the use;
         (e)   On land that is planned to be used to create a lake, the
operator may construct lakes provided:
            1.   Any dams that may be created are certified by an engineer
licensed in the state;
            2.   The formation of the lake will not interfere with other mining
operations; and
            3.   The formation of the lake will not damage adjoining property.
         (f)   The operator shall reclaim a mineral seam where acid-forming
materials are present by covering the exposed face of to a depth of at least
four feet with soil that will support plant life.
      (2)   The land where the surface mining is allowed:
         (a)   Surface mining operations that remove and do not replace the
lateral support may not, unless mutually agreed upon in writing by the adjacent
property owner, remove the lateral support in the vicinity of a property line
or right-of-way line of a public road closer than a distance equal to 30 feet
plus one and one-half times the depth of the excavation from the property line
or right-of-way line;
         (b)   Unless mutually agreed in writing by the adjacent property
owner, the operator must maintain a greenbelt area adjacent to the property
line or right-of-way line of a public road. The greenbelt area must be at least
20 feet wide and use grass, shrubs and trees that are capable of surviving the
local climate. The greenbelt must be designed to contain dust and debris,
minimize noise pollution, and prevent environmental hazards that may result
from surface mining activities, transportation of natural deposits and other
related activities.
   (B)   The operator shall submit to the Commissioners, not more than 21 days
after the end of the permit year, a map that contains the following
information:
      (1)   Location of the pin or pits by section, township and range;
      (2)   The operator’s name and permit number;
      (3)   A description of the land that the operator has conducted surface
mining during the permit year;
      (4)   A description of the land that the operator has completed surface
mining operations on during the permit year; and
      (5)   A legend showing the number of acres affected.
   (C)   An operator must submit to the Commissioners and County Surveyor an
annual report that reflects the status of the operator’s mining and reclamation
activities for each permit.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.08 BOND.
   (A)   (1)   If the Commissioners require the applicant to post a bond, the
applicant shall post a bond or an irrevocable letter of credit in the form and
amount prescribed by the Commissioners.
      (2)   The bond or irrevocable letter of credit must be payable to the
county and conditioned that the applicant:
         (a)   Perform all the requirements of this chapter; and
         (b)   Comply with all the conditions of the permit;
   (B)   A bond must be signed by the applicant as principal and by a good and
sufficient surety, which is licensed to do business in the state, as surety, an
irrevocable letter of credit must be signed by the applicant as principle and
by a federally insured financial institution. The penalty for the bond or
irrevocable letter of credit must be an amount as determined by the
Commissioners for the lands to be affected by the surface mining.
   (C)   The bond or irrevocable letter of credit must contain terms that
require the surety or financial institution to give written notice to the
Commissioners at least 90 days before the surety or financial institution may
cancel the operator’s bond or irrevocable letter of credit.
   (D)   The bond or irrevocable letter of credit must remain in effect until
the mined acreages have been reclaimed, approved and released by the
Commissioners.
   (E)   The Commissioners have the authority to reclaim any affected land that
is related to a bond or irrevocable letter of credit that has been forfeited.
The amount of the bond or irrevocable letter of credit forfeiture reduces the
operator’s liability to reclaim the affected lands in an amount equal to the
forfeiture.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.09 VIOLATIONS AND SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The County Surveyor or Prosecuting Attorney shall give written notice
to the operator of any violation of this chapter or noncompliance with the
permit granted by the Commissioners. If corrective measures that are approved
by the County Surveyor or Prosecuting Attorney are not commenced within 30
days, the County Surveyor or Prosecuting Attorney shall file a request for bond
or irrevocable letter of credit forfeiture and permit suspension with the
Commissioners.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter or of the terms of the permit, in addition
to other penalties in this chapter, is punishable, after notice of the alleged
violation to the operator and the surety and an opportunity for a hearing by
the Commissioners, by modification or suspension of the permit, or modification
or forfeiture of the surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit by the
Commissioners.
   (C)   If the Commissioners receive information of an emergency posing a
serious immediate threat of significant harm to life, public health or safety,
property or the environment may immediately suspend the operator’s permit at a
public meeting; however, the Commissioners must hold a prompt subsequent public
meeting to allow the operator to present statements, documents and other
information to the Commissioners concerning the emergency suspension.
   (D)   (1)   If the Commissioners suspend the permit of an operator under
this chapter the operator must stop surface mining operations until the
suspension is removed.
      (2)   The operator may begin surface mining operations after the
following conditions have been met:
         (a)   The operator has paid any penalties required under this chapter
or the permit;
         (b)    The operator has corrected the actions or conditions that were
in violation of this chapter or the terms of the permit;
         (c)   The operator is in compliance with this chapter and the terms of
the permit;
         (d)   The operator has requested a hearing by the Commissioners to
determine if the operator has met the conditions of divisions (D)(2)(a), (D)(2)
(b) and (D)(2)(c) above; and
         (e)   The Commissioners determine at the hearing that the operator has
met the conditions of divisions (D)(2)(a), (D)(2)(b) and (D)(2)(c) above. The
Commissioners may not continue the suspension of the permit unless the
Commissioners state the conditions that have not been met under divisions (D)
(2)(a), (D)(2)(b) and (D)(2)(c) above.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.10 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   A permit granted under this chapter is valid for one year from the
date of issue.
   (B)   Except for a permit that is suspended, an operator may within 90 days
before the expiration of the current permit apply to the Commissioners for a
renewal of a permit.
   (C)   To obtain a renewal of a permit the operator must do the following:
      (1)   Pay a non-refundable renewal fee of $100;
      (2)   File a verified statement that details any changes in the
information contained in the initial permit application; and
      (3)   Mail to each adjacent property owner and cause to be published a
notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the surface
mining operation is located a notice that the operator has applied for a
renewal of a surface mining permit.
   (D)   The Commissioners shall hold a public meeting to determine if:
      (1)   The operator has complied with the terms of the reclamation permit;
      (2)   The amount of the operator’s surety bond or irrevocable letter of
credit should be changed; and
      (3)   The terms of the permit should be modified.
   (E)   Except for incidental boundary revisions, a new permit is required for
any extensions to the permit area.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A member of the Committee may enter upon the lands that are part of an
application for a permit under this chapter at all reasonable times to inspect
the lands before making a recommendation to the Commissioners.
   (B)   The County Surveyor and the Commissioners may enter upon the lands of
the operator at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection to determine
if the provisions of the permit and this chapter have been complied with.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person required to have a permit under this chapter who engages in
surface mining without a permit or with a permit while it is suspended commits
a Class 6 ordinance violation and a judgment of not more $300 shall be entered
against the violator. Each day a violation is committed constitutes a separate
violation.
   (B)   A person may institute a civil action against a person who operates a
surface mining operation who has violated this chapter or the conditions of the
permit for any actual damages incurred. This section does not prohibit a person
seeking a restraining order or injunction against a person who operates a
surface mining operation who violates this chapter or the conditions of the
permit.
(BC Ord. 1995-14, passed 10-23-1995)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Prohibited uses and acts
   
155.004   Authority and jurisdiction
   
155.005   Inclusion of the relationship to other ordinances
   
155.006   Interpretation, conflict and separability
   
155.007   Computation of time
   
155.008   Saving provision
   
155.009   Conditions
   
155.010   Notices
   
155.011   Form of certificates, notations, applications and findings
   
155.012   Applicability
   
155.013   Definitions
Zones and Permitted Uses
   
155.025   Establishment of zones
   
155.026   Definition of zones
   
155.027   Permitted uses in zones
   
155.028   Conditional uses
   
155.029   Non-permitted uses
   
155.030   Zone map
Zone Standards
   
155.045   Residential development standards
   
155.046   Multi-family development standards
   
155.047   Mobile home park development standards
   
155.048   Recreational vehicle parks
   
155.049   Commercial development standards
   
155.050   Industrial development standards
   
155.051   Agricultural land
Planned Unit Development (PUDs)
   
155.065   Purpose
   
155.066   Procedure for approval of a PUD
   
155.067   Developmental standards
Subdivision Control
   
155.080   Title and definition
   
155.081   Authority to record plat
   
155.082   Predesign conference
   
155.083   Plat approval procedure; written application
   
155.084   Preliminary plat requirements; attachment for private sewage disposal
system or public water supply
   
155.085   Preliminary plat requirements; form
   
155.086   Plat approval procedure; fee
   
155.087   Plat approval procedure; action on the preliminary plat
   
155.088   Plat approval procedure; development plat
   
155.089   Plat approval procedure; submission of proposed final plat
   
155.090   Final plat requirements
   
155.091   Plat approval procedure; certificate of improvement or completion
bond
   
155.092   Plat approval procedure; action on the final plat
   
155.093   Final plat requirements; accuracy
   
155.094   Final plat requirements; form
   
155.095   Administrative subdivisions
   
155.096   Administrative subdivisions procedure
   
155.097   Minor subdivision survey drawing
   
155.098   Alternate procedure for minor subdivisions
   
155.099   Conditions for approval of final plat; standards of design
   
155.100   Standards of design; approval of streets
   
155.101   Standards of design; location and arrangements of streets
   
155.102   Standards of design; dead-end street
   
155.103   Standards of design; access to areas abutting arterial streets
   
155.104   Standards of design; minimum right-of-way widths of streets
   
155.105   Standards of design; grades of streets
   
155.106   Standards of design; alignment of streets
   
155.107   Standards of design; special types of streets
   
155.108   Standards of design; intersections of streets
   
155.109   Standards of design; alleys
   
155.110   Standards of design; utility easements and depths
   
155.111   Standards of design; sizes of lots
   
155.112   Standards of design; corner lots
   
155.113   Improvements; approval of plans for construction of streets
   
155.114   Improvements; construction standards for streets
   
155.115   Improvements; ingress and egress for streets and alleys
   
155.116   Improvements; turn around and cul-de-sac requirements
   
155.117   Improvements; street and traffic signs
   
155.118   Improvements; sidewalks
   
155.119   Storm and surface water damage
   
155.120   Improvements; water supply
   
155.121   Waiver and lapse
   
155.122   Validity
   
155.123   Subchapter in force
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
155.135   Purpose and scope
   
155.136   Parking and loading requirement
   
155.137   General parking regulations
   
155.138   Parking development standards
   
155.139   Minimum parking requirements and calculation method
   
155.140   Shared parking
   
155.141   Loading area development standards
   
155.142   Minimum loading area requirements
   
155.143   Off-street parking requirements table
Wireless Communication Facilities
   
155.155   Generally
   
155.156   Permitted, conditional and exempt uses
   
155.157   General requirements
   
155.158   Provisions for hiring independent consultant
   
155.159   Co-location review
   
155.160   Performance standards
   
155.161   Temporary wireless communication facilities
   
155.162   Amendment of zoning maps for wireless communication facilities
   
155.163   Abandonment
   
155.164   Wireless communication facilities table
Conditional Uses
   
155.175   Regulations for conditional uses
   
155.176   Application for conditional use approval
   
155.177   Conditional use approval procedure
   
155.178   Environmental impact statement
   
155.179   Standards for approval
   
155.180   Conditional approval
   
155.181   Miscellaneous guidelines
   
155.182   Specific criteria for conditional use approvals
   
155.183   Conditional use approval for pre-existing nonconforming uses
   
155.184   Conditional uses in permitted land use table
Variances
   
155.195   Regulations for use and design standards variances
   
155.196   Application for variance
   
155.197   Variance approval procedure
   
155.198   Environmental impact statement
   
155.199   Standards for use variance approval
   
155.200   Standards for design variance approval
   
155.201   Conditional approval
   
155.202   Relationship to subject property
Pre-Existing Nonconforming Uses
   
155.215   Nonconforming uses of land and/or structures
   
155.216   Nonconforming parcels and/or structures
    
155.217   Burden of establishing status
Board of Commissioners
   
155.230   General powers of the Board of Commissioners
   
155.231   General duty of the Board of Commissioners
Advisory Plan Commission
   
155.245   Establishment
   
155.246   Membership
   
155.247   Qualifications of citizen members
   
155.248   Terms of office
   
155.249   Removal of member
   
155.250   Vacated membership
   
155.251   Expenses
   
155.252   Conflict of interest
   
155.253   Official action
   
155.254   President and Vice President
   
155.255   Secretary
   
155.256   Meetings and records
   
155.257   Staff and services
   
155.258   General powers and duties
   
155.259   Citizen committees
   
155.260   Executive committee
   
155.261   Gifts and grants
   
155.262   Alternate procedure
   
155.263   Review of zoning ordinance
   
155.264   Plat committee
   
155.265   Naming and renaming streets
Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.280   Establishment
   
155.281   Membership
   
155.282   Qualifications of members
   
155.283   Terms of office
   
155.284   Removal of member
   
155.285   Vacated membership
   
155.286   Expenses
   
155.287   Conflict of interest
   
155.288   Official action
   
155.289   President and Vice President
   
155.290   Secretary
   
155.291   Rules and procedure
   
155.292   Meetings and records
   
155.293   Findings of fact
   
155.294   General powers and duties
   
155.295   Appeal procedures
   
155.296   Commitments
   
155.297   Judicial review
Appeals
   
155.310   Authority
   
155.311   Initiation
   
155.312   Processing
   
155.313   Public hearing
   
155.314   Decisions
   
155.315   Additional consideration
Planning Department
   
155.330   Purpose of Planning Department
   
155.331   Duties of Planning Director
   
155.332   Duties of the planners
   
155.333   Duties of the zoning inspectors
Violations and Enforcement
   
155.345   Violations
   
155.346   Enforcement procedures
   
155.347   Authorized remedies for violations
Fees
   
155.360   Fee requirement and payment
   
155.361   Exemptions from fee requirement
   
155.362   Waiver of fee requirement
   
155.363   Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals fees
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter (which is on file in the County Administrator’s office), and
all ordinances and regulations supplemental or amendatory thereto, shall be
known and may be cited as the “Owen County Zoning Ordinance” and are generally
referred to herein as “the Zoning Code,” “this chapter,” or “these
regulations”.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby adopted in order to:
      (1)   Promote the orderly, responsible and beneficial development and use
of land within the county jurisdictional area;
      (2)   Promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare of the county;
      (3)   Protect the character and stability of residential, institutional,
business, industrial, and natural areas;
      (4)   Minimize or avoid congestion in the public streets and to ensure
safe, convenient, and efficient traffic circulation;
      (5)   Secure adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from
fire, flood and other danger, which may include providing adequate open spaces
for light, air and outdoor uses;
      (6)   Preserve and enhance the scenic beauty, aesthetics and
environmental integrity of the county jurisdictional area;
      (7)   Encourage compatibility between different land uses and to protect
the scale and character of existing development from the encroachment of
incompatible uses;
      (8)   Regulate and restrict the location and intensity of use of
buildings, structures, and land for trade, residence and other uses;
      (9)   Define the powers and duties of administrative officers and bodies
as provided herein, and to establish procedures for the implementation and
enforcement of these regulations; and
      (10)   Further such other purposes as are stated hereinafter within
specific provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall be interpreted, administered and enforced in a
manner that is consistent with the foregoing purposes.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.003 PROHIBITED USES AND ACTS.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no building, structure or premises may
be used for any purpose other than those permitted in the zoning district in
which the building, structure, or premises is located. No land or lot area may
be reduced, diminished, used or developed except in accordance with all
applicable provisions of these regulations. No building or structure may be
altered, erected, constructed, installed, moved, replaced or maintained except
in accordance with all applicable provisions of these regulations.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.004 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   This chapter, enacted pursuant to the Indiana home rule and planning
enabling legislation (I.C. 36-1-3-4 and 36-7-4-1 et seq., as amended), and
pursuant to the county code and all other applicable authorities and provisions
of statutory and common law, shall apply to all land use within the county
jurisdictional area.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.005 INCLUSION OF AND RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   This chapter shall be interpreted to include any and all other
provisions of the county code which are necessary for an understanding of this
chapter and the attainment of its purposes. The Board of Commissioners intends
that all county code provisions relating to land use, and all orders, rules,
and regulations established pursuant to said provisions, be read as part of a
uniform system of the county land use regulation.
   (B)   All departments, officials and employees of the county that are vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits, certificates or approvals, shall
conform to the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit,
certificate or approval for any use, structure or activity if the same would be
in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. Any permit, certificate or
approval issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null
and void and, in no event, shall act as a waiver of the standards and
requirements of this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.006 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, this chapter shall be held to
be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety and
general welfare.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. Where
the conditions imposed by, or pursuant to, this chapter is different from those
imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other ordinance,
rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law, the provisions which are
more restrictive and which impose the higher/greater standards shall control.
   (C)   Private covenants, restrictions and/or agreements, whether by deed or
other instrument, which impose any requirements or standards different than
those established under this chapter, shall not be construed to modify the
provisions of this chapter or impose any enforcement obligations thereunder
upon the Commission, the Board and the Plan Department staff unless the
Commission or the Board had approved or accepted, in writing, and had
specifically accepted the responsibility for enforcement of, the terms and
conditions of any such private covenant, restriction or agreement.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter are separable. If any part or provision
of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is
adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be
confined in its operation to the part, provision, or application directly
involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and
shall not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of this chapter or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The county hereby
declares that it would have enacted the remainder of this chapter even without
any such part, provision or application.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.007 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is to
be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day of
the specified period of time. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, that day shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.008 SAVING PROVISION.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or by virtue of, prior existing planning and zoning regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any section or provision existing at
the time of adoption of this chapter, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful action of the county
except as shall be expressly provided for in this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.009 CONDITIONS.
   The attachment of reasonable conditions to the use and development of land
within the county jurisdictional area as part of the approval of rezoning
petitions, special exceptions, conditional uses, home occupations, temporary
uses, variances, outline plans, development plans, plat vacations and
amendments, or as otherwise authorized, is an exercise of valid police power
delegated to the county by the state. The applicant has the duty of compliance
with reasonable conditions laid down by the Commission for design, dedication,
improvement, and restrictive use of the land in order to conform to the
physical and economical development of the county and to the safety and general
welfare of present and future landowners and citizens of the county. The
failure to comply with any such conditions may be cause for denial of the
permits and approvals prescribed by this chapter and shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.010 NOTICES.
   For purposes of this chapter, if written notice is required to be given to
any person, such requirement shall be considered satisfied as of the date of
deposit of the written notice in the United States mail, postage pre-paid,
addressed to the person or agent thereof, at his or her last known address or
principal place of delivery.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.011 FORM OF CERTIFICATES, NOTATIONS, APPLICATIONS AND FINDINGS.
   The department shall establish the form of all certificates, notations,
applications and findings required or permitted by this chapter. All such forms
must be approved by the Commission and must be consistent with this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.012 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter, unless otherwise noted, shall apply to all public, private and
institutional development except road development projects by the County
Highway Department.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.013 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
present tense includes the future tense. The singular number includes the
plural and the plural includes the singular. The word “shall” is mandatory; the
word “may” is permissive. The word “used” includes “designed” or “intended” to
be used. The word “lot” includes the words “tract” or “parcel.” Any words not
defined as follows shall be construed in their general accented meanings as
defined by Webster’s dictionary.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. One which is subordinate to and serves
the principle building or principle use; subordinate in area, extent, or
purpose to the principle building or principle use served; contributes to the
comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of the principle use served;
and located on the same lot as the principle use building or principle use
served, with the single exception of such accessory off-street parking
facilities as are permitted.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of a tract of land for agricultural purposes, including
farming, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, timber and the necessary uses for
packing, treating, or storing the agricultural product.
   AIRPORT. Any location either on land, water, or structure which is designed
or used for the landing and taking off of aircraft, including all necessary
buildings and facilities.
   APPEAL. The taking of a question of interpretation or enforcement of this
chapter, in a specific case, to the Board of Zoning Appeals for review from
which a variance may be authorized.
   BUFFER AREA, SCREENING. Any trees, shrubs, fences, or mounds, planted or
constructed for the purpose of shielding the negative effects of a neighboring
land use.
   BUSINESS, MANUFACTURING. A business that derives its principal source of
income from the sale of goods made from raw, unfinished materials, as
distinguished from the final product.
   BUSINESS, RETAIL. A business that derives its principal source of income
from the sale of supplies to the ultimate consumer.
   BUSINESS, SERVICE. A business that derives its principal source of income
from the sale of useful artistic, educational, intellectual, literary, or
scientific labor from which no necessary tangible commodity is derived.
   BUSINESS, WHOLESALE. A business that derives its principal source of income
from sales to retailers, other merchants, or industrial, institutional or
commercial users which will use the goods for resale or business use.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A development where the buildings are constructed
closely together in order to preserve large areas of undeveloped space for
recreational, scenic or preservation uses.
   COMMISSION. The Owen County Planning Commission.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed, including the public right-of-way.
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding
the public right-of-way and other public lands.
   DWELLING. A permanent building, or portion thereof, but not a mobile home
designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings, and multiple-family dwelling, but not
including hotels, motels, or lodging houses.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for one family only. Bathrooms and complete kitchen facilities
shall be included for each DWELLING UNIT.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of one dwelling unit only,
separated from other dwelling units by open space.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of two or more dwelling
units.
   EASEMENT. An authorization of grant by a property owner to specific person
(s) or to a utility for specific purposes.
   FENCE. A structure, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed for enclosure and/or screening.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat or low land adjoining the channel of a river
or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or an accessory portion of the
principal building, including a carport, which is intended for and used for
storing the private vehicles of the family or families resident upon the
premises.
   GROCERY STORE. Any establishment or section of an establishment where food
and food products are offered to the consumer and intended for off-premise
consumption.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or activity conducted entirely within a
dwelling or accessory building, solely by the occupants thereof, which is
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes and in connection with which:
      (1)   Not more than one person not a resident on the premises is
employed;
      (2)   Not over 25% of the first floor of the dwelling is occupied by such
use; and
      (3)   No internal or external alterations to the dwelling are required to
accommodate the use.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. An area of land, such as a parking lot, that cannot be
penetrated by water or other liquids and may create considerable storm water
runoff.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. Land specifically developed with the intention to locate
industrial businesses.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste or scrap materials, or three or more
motor vehicles not in running operable condition, or parts thereof are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, but excluding
uses established within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL. Any premises or portions thereof on which more than four dogs, cats,
or other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept, or on
which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for,
in return for enumeration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LOT. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet all requirements for use.
Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an approved
private street.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. As set forth in 42 U.S.C §§ 6401 et seq., as it existed
on January 1, 2007, a structure, transportable in one or more sections which,
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width of 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which
meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirement and
with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the secretary and complies with the standards established under
this chapter; and except that such term shad not include any self-propelled
recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE. Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing,
testing, and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character; require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive service and facilities, ready access to regional transportation; and
may generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare, air
pollution, and water pollution, but not beyond the property boundary.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations, relatively clean, quiet, and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust;
operating and storing within enclosed structures; and generating little
industrial traffic.
   MASTER PLAN (NOT CAPITALIZED). The Owen County Master Plan.
   OPEN SPACE. A public or private outdoor area expressly set aside for the use
and benefit of people. The area may include, along with the natural
environmental features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts, basketball
courts, shelters, and other outdoor recreational facilities that the Plan
Commission deems permissible. Streets, parking areas, structures for
habitation, and the like shall not be included in open space area calculations.
   PARKING LOT. An area of land specifically designed and used for the parking
of motor vehicles.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). An area of land in which a variety of
residential, commercial, and/or industrial uses are planned and developed as a
whole according to comprehensive and detailed plans.
   PRINCIPLE BUILDING. The building in which the principle use of the lot is
conducted.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. A general term denoting land, property, or interest
therein, usually in a strip, acquired for, or devoted to a transportation or
transmissions facility.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle primarily designed as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping or travel, either with its own motor power or
mounted on or towed by another powered vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. An area of land used for the parking of two or
more recreational vehicles.
   RESTAURANT. A business in which its primary function is the preparation and
serving of food on its own premises.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way which is improved for the use
of pedestrian traffic.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or
land and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, service,
person, institution, or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign, including billboards, which directs attention to
a business, commodity, service, or entertainment not exclusively related to the
premises where the sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The entire area of a sign within its single continuous
perimeter. The perimeter shall not include any structural elements lying
outside the limits of the sign.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into smaller lots for the purpose of
building homes or reselling to prospective individual land owners.
   VARIANCE. A change in the usual interpretation or enforcement of the master
plan, as granted to a specific case, because of special conditions or
unnecessary hardship. The case must be taken to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   YARD. An open space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
master plan.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Res. 2007-28, passed 7-
17-2007)
ZONES AND PERMITTED USES
§ 155.025 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES.
   The county jurisdictional area is hereby classified and divided into the
following zones and sub-zones (also referred to as “districts”):
   (A)   Residential:
      (1)   Estate;
      (2)   Single-Family; and
      (3)   Multi-Family.
   (B)   Business (Commercial);
   (C)   Industrial:
      (1)   Light;
      (2)   Heavy; and
      (3)   Mineral Extraction.
   (D)   Agricultural; and
   (E)   Institutional/Public.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.026 DEFINITION OF ZONES.
   The zones listed in §
155.025 of this subchapter are defined as follows:
   (A)   Residential. The development of one or more residences on property
that is not going to be subdivided for further developments. Created to
preserve and enhance a safe, pleasant living environment for the people of the
county and intended to provide a variety and mix of dwelling types.
      (1)   Estate: primarily intended for single-family residential
development on five acre or more parcels along major county roads or state
highways in currently existing agricultural areas.
      (2)   Single-Family: intended for single-family residential development
on one acre or more lots.
      (3)   Multi-Family: intended for residential development of more than one
dwelling unit per acre, including but not limited to apartments, condominiums,
townhouses, duplexes, recreational vehicle parks, and mobile home parks.
   (B)   Business (Commercial). These business and commercial guidelines are
intended to provide services where they are needed most and to preserve,
enhance and encourage the usefulness and vitality of these areas. Commercial
businesses shall be developed in a manner that reflects the character of the
surrounding area.
   (C)   Industrial. Criteria have been created to provide minimum adverse
effect to other land uses in the vicinity. Industry business shall be developed
in a manner which reflects the character of the surrounding area.
      (1)   Light: light industrial uses are relatively clean, quiet, and free
of smoke, noise, dust, and pollution.
      (2)   Heavy: industrial uses are generally major operations and extensive
in character and require large open sites, open storage and service areas,
quick access to regional transportation, and may generate nuisances such as
smoke, noise, vibrations, dust, glare, air pollution, and water pollution.
Heavy industrial uses should be located away from residential and commercial
uses.
      (3)   Mineral Extraction: primarily intended for limestone, coal, gravel
extraction and stone processing activities, including but not limited to
limestone quarries, coal mines, and gravel pits. Like heavy industrial uses,
should be located away from residential and commercial business uses.
   (D)   Agricultural. These provisions are established to protect suitable
land for active agricultural production in the county. Agricultural production
is recognized as one of the, if not the, primary economic activity in the
county, and certain lands are particularly suited to such uses because of their
size, configuration, soil, topography, and locations in relation to other land
uses. This chapter is intended to limit conversion of such agricultural lands
to other uses and to promote proper land utilization.
   (E)   Institutional/Public (including recreational). This district is
defined as that which is primarily intended to accommodate uses of a
governmental, civic, public service or private institutional nature, including
major public facilities, public utilities, churches, and local government-owned
property. This zone includes the variety of state and local government
recreational parks, recreation areas, forests, and fairgrounds. Maintenance and
improvement of these areas will continue to bring more visitors to the county
and provide outstanding recreational opportunities for county residents.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.027 PERMITTED USES IN ZONES.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Estate:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling;
         (b)   Accessory building and lot;
         (c)   Temporary construction;
         (d)   Home occupation; and
         (e)   Agricultural uses.
      (2)   Single-family dwelling:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling;
         (b)   Accessory building and uses incidental to the use permitted,
located on the same lot;
         (c)   Temporary construction building;
         (d)   Home occupation; and
         (e)   Manufactured home.
      (3)   Multi-family dwelling:
         (a)   Multi-family dwellings including duplexes, apartments and
condominiums;
         (b)   Accessory building and uses incidental to the use permitted,
located on the same lot;
         (c)   Temporary construction building;
         (d)   Home occupation;
         (e)   Parking lots needed to fulfill parking requirements for an
existing or permitted use;
         (f)   Recreational vehicle parks (any land used for the temporary
parking of two or more recreational vehicles by campers, vacationers, or
travelers);
         (g)   Condominiums; and
         (h)   Townhouses.
   (B)   Business.
      (1)   Drug stores;
      (2)   Beauty salons and barber shops;
      (3)   Carry-out stores;
      (4)   Bakeries;
      (5)   Dressmaking and tailoring;
      (6)   Self-service laundromats;
      (7)   Florist shops;
      (8)   Liquor stores;
      (9)   Photography shops;
      (10)   Grocery stores;
      (11)   Dry cleaners;
      (12)   Restaurants;
      (13)   Medical and dental clinics;
      (14)   Offices;
      (15)   Other uses identified in the permitted land use table; and
      (16)   Other uses approved by the Plan Board that exhibit similar
characteristics as the above and are not detrimental to the surrounding land
uses.
   (C)   Industrial.
      (1)   Light:
         (a)   Public and private utilities;
         (b)   Recreation areas established for the use of employees on site;
         (c)   Temporary construction buildings;
         (d)   Assembly operations for pre-manufactured parts;
         (e)   Canning, bottling, processing and packaging of food;
         (f)   Warehouse and distribution operations;
         (g)   Machine, welding, and tool and die shops;
         (h)   Construction and trucking contractor operations;
         (i)   Soybean processing plant;
         (j)   Meat packing plant; and
         (k)   Other uses in permitted land use table.
      (2)   Heavy:
         (a)   Arsenal;
         (b)   Central mixing plant for mortar, plaster, concrete, paving
material or asphalt;
         (c)   Dehydration plant;
         (d)   Cement lime ingredient, lime, gypsum and plaster;
         (e)   Petroleum refinery and distillation;
         (f)   Smelting of ore or metal;
         (g)   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline or other petroleum
products;
         (h)   Railroad storage yards or shops;
         (i)   Sanitary landfills, reduction or incineration of trash, garbage,
offal or dead animals;
         (j)   Fat rendering;
         (k)   Manufacture of acid, alcohol, ammonia, bleaching powder,
celluloid, explosives, gas, glue, pyroxylin or nitrocellulose; and
         (l)   Other uses in permitted land use table.
      (3)   Mineral Extraction:
         (a)   Limestone and other rock quarries;
         (b)   Gravel pits;
         (c)   Stone processing plants; and
         (d)   Coal mines.
   (D)   Agricultural.
      (1)   Field crop farm;
      (2)   Truck crop farm;
      (3)   Animal husbandry;
      (4)   Kennels;
      (5)   Stables;
      (6)   Forestry;
      (7)   Veterinary office;
      (8)   Nursery or greenhouse;
      (9)   Grazing;
      (10)   Public utilities;
      (11)   Feed stores, excluding the milling or grinding of any feed for
commercial uses;
      (12)   Confined feeding operations;
      (13)   Fertilizer storage; and
      (14)   Estate residential.
   (E)   Institutional/Public (including recreational).
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2004-19, passed 7-
14-2004; BC Res. 2007-28, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 155.028 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Airports, heliports and landing fields;
   (B)   Archaeological sites, building or properties;
   (C)   Auditorium, community center, stadium, armory, gymnasium, public
buildings and other similar places for special events;
   (D)   Bed and breakfast inns;
   (E)   Boarding or lodging houses;
   (F)   Bus terminals;
   (G)   Colleges;
   (H)   Correctional institutions;
   (I)   Country clubs;
   (J)   Day care centers, nursery or day schools;
   (K)   Golf courses;
   (L)   Hospitals and sanitariums;
   (M)   Hotels and motels;
   (N)   Livestock sale or auction houses;
   (O)   Lodge or private club;
   (P)   Marina;
   (Q)   Medical centers or clinics;
   (R)   Mortuaries and funeral homes;
   (S)   Public utility power plants, transformer stations, filtration and
sewage disposal plants, pumping stations, water reservoirs and railroad rights-
of-way;
   (T)   Riding stables;
   (U)   Stockyards, shipping, holding and sale of animals; and
   (V)   Veterinary clinics, including animal hospitals.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.029 NON-PERMITTED USES.
   All junkyards, race tracks, waste incinerators, and waste transfer stations
(not licensed and approved by the state) are non-permitted uses in the county
jurisdictional area, which prohibition cannot be removed by an appeal for a use
variance to the Board of Zoning Appeals. Currently existing junkyards,
racetracks, waste incinerators, and non-licensed and approved waste transfer
stations are non-conforming uses.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.030 ZONE MAP.
   Every parcel in the county has been classified as one of the above
identified zones according to its present use as determined by the “Class Code”
property classification system used by the County Assessor.
Zone Map
         Zones
Assessor Estate      Single-     Multi-               Light      Heavy      Mineral                 Institutional/
Codes    Residential Family      Family      Business Industrial Industrial Extraction Agricultural Public
                     Residential Residential
Zone Map
                                    Zones
                                    Estate      Single-     Multi-               Light      Heavy      Mineral                 Institutional/
Assessor Codes                      Residential Family      Family      Business Industrial Industrial Extraction Agricultural Public
                                                Residential Residential
100 - 199                           X                                                                       X             
300, 310, 330 - 350, 370                                                     X                                           
320, 360, 390 - 399                                                                    X                                 
380 - 385                                                                                        X                       
400, 410 - 412, 420 - 499                                            X                                                   
502 - 505, 512 - 515                X                                                                                    
522 - 525, 532 - 535, 542 - 545     X                                                                                    
500, 501,   510 - 511, 540, 541,            X                                                                         
599
401 - 403, 414 - 419                                      X                                                              
520, 521, 530, 531, 550 - 555                             X                                                              
600 - 699, 800 - 899                                                                                                   X
 
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. passed 5-28-2003;
BC Ord. 2004-19, passed 7-14-2004)
ZONE STANDARDS
§ 155.045 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Introduction. Residential development shall be defined as the
development of one residence on property that is not going to be subdivided for
further developments. These standards have been created to preserve and enhance
a safe, pleasant living environment for the people of the county. It is
intended to provide a variety and mix of dwelling types.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Estate Residential;
      (3)   Multi-Family Residential;
      (4)   Accessory building and uses incidental to the use permitted,
located on the same lot;
      (5)   Temporary construction building; and
      (6)   Home occupation.
   (C)   Residential standards.
      (1)   Signs intended to be seen outside lot lines:
         (a)   Business signs, except for home occupation are not permitted;
         (b)   No sign shall project beyond the lot line, or hinder or obstruct
sight lines in the adjacent roadway. Further, no sign shall be placed so as to
hinder or obstruct any pedestrian path; and
         (c)   No sign shall be larger than 32 square feet.
      (2)   Fences, walls, and hedges, notwithstanding other provisions of this
master plan, fences, walls, and hedges may be permitted in any yard or along
the edge of any yard, providing that driveway entrances are not shielded by
fences, walls and hedges in such a way as to obstruct the view of a driver
entering a public road from the driveway and not to obstruct vision of public
right-of-way traffic and/or obstruct any pedestrian path.
      (3)   Lot size, setback distance and required off-street parking are as
set forth in the §§
155.080 through
155.123 and
155.143 of this chapter.
      (4)   Maximum building height shall not exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet.
      (5)   Minimum ground level square footage (excluding open porches,
terraces and garages):
         (a)   Single story: 650 feet;
         (b)   Two story: 1,050 feet;
         (c)   Tri-level (basement and first level): 1,250 feet; and
         (d)   Story and one-half: 975 feet.
   (D)   Restrictions for permitted uses. Only single-family detached dwelling
units are permitted.
      (1)   For all side yards, when the structure is in excess of two stories,
for each story over the second, the total side yard shall increase by at least
ten feet.
      (2)   Lighted areas shall be placed in such a way that they do not
infringe upon the rights of adjacent property owners.
      (3)   Areas for parking shall not be closer than ten feet from the
nearest lot line.
   (E)   Restrictions. Not more than 25% of the structure shall be used for
nonresidential purposes.
   (F)   Residential development standards. All residential dwelling units are
subject to the general provisions of §§
155.080 through
155.123 of this chapter where applicable. In addition, the following standards
apply:
      (1)   Site design and community impacts:
         (a)   Road hierarchy is how roads surrounding the site are used to
connect the site to its surroundings. Connecting the development directly to a
major highway is discouraged as a safety hazard due to traffic congestion, as
cars exit or enter the new development. Entrance on a paved county road is
preferred. Entrance on a gravel county road is mandatory.
         (b)   Sidewalks allow workers to move freely throughout the
development without having to walk to the street making the area safer.
         (c)   The conservation of energy allows business owners to save money
and saves local energy companies the cost of expansions. Energy saving provides
the entire community the benefits of lower pollution and should be encouraged.
         (d)   Landscaping provides a more attractive setting for industries,
can reduce summer heating costs and provides wildlife habitat. Buffering
between conflicting land uses is required.
         (e)   Parking lights make industrial areas safer at night and lower
risks of robbery.
         (f)   Higher quality roads and parking make developments more
attractive.
         (g)   Buffering or screening of industrial areas to adjacent land uses
is required if the adjacent land use is residential or recreational, and is
highly encouraged for other conflicting land uses.
         (h)   Employing local labor by using county workers so more money is
brought into their community and commuting costs can be lowered is strongly
encouraged.
         (i)   The use of products made in the county increases economic
activity and can lead to new jobs in the county and is therefore strongly
encouraged.
      (2)   Context and environmental impacts:
         (a)   Subdivisions (and other land uses) built adjacent to conflicting
land uses can cause decreasing land values, create possible safety hazards to
residents and are generally not in the public interest. Buffering is required
between industrial and residential or recreational uses and encouraged between
other land uses.
         (b)   Developments built in isolated areas cost more in infrastructure
and transportation costs and should be discouraged.
         (c)   Close proximity to fire and police services allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (d)   Close proximity to schools and medical facilities allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (e)   Close proximity to commercial developments (must be drug store,
grocery store, department store or convenience store) allows easier access to
every day needed items and reduces traffic.
         (f)   Proximity to industries and major employers allows a quicker
travel time to work and less traffic.
         (g)   Close access to power, gas and water lines provides more
efficient use of limited public resources and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (h)   Close access to roads makes the site easier to get to and
eliminates the need for new access roads to be built and maintained.
         (i)   Erosion control measures should be provided on hillsides to
prevent the loss of ground and reduce pollution.
         (j)   Developments that enhance, not reduce, forest lands should be
encouraged.
         (k)   Prime farm land should not be built upon except as a last resort
to preserve the value of crop production.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Res. 2007-28, passed 7-
17-2007) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.046 MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Introduction. Multi-family, including apartment, duplexes, and
condominiums shall be defined as a permanent building designed or used
exclusively for residential occupancy, containing two or more dwelling units
per building.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (2)   Accessory building and uses incidental to the use permitted,
located on same lot;
      (3)   Temporary construction buildings;
      (4)   Apartments;
      (5)   Condominiums;
      (6)   Parking lots needed to fulfill parking requirements for an existing
or permitted use;
      (7)   Duplexes; and
      (8)   Home occupation.
   (C)   Apartment standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot frontage on public roads shall be 120 feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot size (see §§
155.080 through
155.123 of this chapter);
      (3)   Minimum setback lines:
         (a)   Front yard: 120 feet on primary and secondary arterial; 80 feet
on major and minor collectors; and 60 feet on other roads;
         (b)   Side yards: see §§
155.080 through
155.123 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Rear yards: see §§
155.080 through
155.123 of this chapter.
      (4)   Maximum building height shall not exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet;
      (5)   Minimum ground level square footage (excluding open porches,
terraces and garages):
         (a)   Single story: 650 square feet per unit;
         (b)   Two story: 650 square feet per unit;
         (c)   Tri-level: 650 square feet per unit (basement and first level);
and
         (d)   Story and one-half: 650 square feet per unit.
      (6)   Two parking spaces per unit are required for all apartments. At
least four additional parking spaces are required for apartment complexes with
clubhouses. No parking spaces are required for recreational areas;
      (7)   Signs:
         (a)   One nameplate is allowed per building and shall not exceed ten
square feet;
         (b)   One freestanding sign is allowed per entrance to the
development, but each sign shall not exceed ten square feet;
         (c)   Billboards and advertising signs are not allowed; and
         (d)   Temporary real estate signs, construction or contractor’s signs
shall not exceed two in number per lot or be more than six square feet.
   (D)   Multi-family development standards.
      (1)   Site design and community impacts.
         (a)   Road hierarchy is how roads surrounding the site are used to
connect the site to its surroundings. Connecting the development directly to a
major highway is discouraged as a safety hazard due to traffic congestion, as
cars exit or enter the new development. Entrance on a paved county road is
preferred. Entrance on a gravel county road is mandatory.
         (b)   Sidewalks allow workers to move freely throughout the
development without having to walk in the street making the area safer.
         (c)   The conservation of energy allows business owners to save money
and saves local energy companies the cost of expansions. Energy saving provides
the entire community the benefits of lower pollution and should be encouraged.
         (d)   Landscaping provides a more attractive setting for industries,
can reduce summer cooling costs and provides wildlife habitat. Buffering
between conflicting land uses is required.
         (e)   Parking lights make industrial areas safer at night and lower
risks of robbery.
         (f)   Higher quality roads and parking make developments more
attractive.
         (g)   Buffering or screening of industrial areas to adjacent land uses
is required if the adjacent land use is residential or recreational, and is
highly encouraged for other conflicting land uses.
         (h)   Employing local labor by using county workers so more money is
brought into their community and commuting costs can be lowered is strongly
encouraged.
         (i)   The use of products made in the county increases economic
activity and can lead to new jobs in the county and is therefore strongly
encouraged.
      (2)   Context and environmental impacts.
         (a)   Subdivisions (and other land uses) built adjacent to conflicting
land uses can cause decreasing land values, create possible safety hazards to
residents, and are generally not in the public interest. Buffering is required
between industrial and residential or recreational uses and encouraged between
other land uses.
         (b)   Developments built in isolated areas cost more in infrastructure
and transportation costs and should be discouraged.
         (c)   Close proximity to fire and police services allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (d)   Close proximity to schools and medical facilities allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (e)   Close proximity to commercial developments (must be drug store,
grocery store, department store or convenience store) allows easier access to
every day needed items and reduces traffic.
         (f)   Proximity to industries and major employers allows a quicker
travel time to work and less traffic.
         (g)   Close access to power, gas, and water lines provides more
efficient use of limited public resources and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (h)   Close access to roads makes the site easier to get to and
eliminates the need for new access roads to be built and maintained.
         (i)   Erosion control measures should be provided on hillsides to
prevent the loss of ground and reduce pollution.
         (j)   Developments that enhance, not reduce, forest lands should be
encouraged.
         (k)   Prime farm land should not be built upon except as a last resort
to preserve the value of crop production.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.047 MOBILE HOME PARK DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Introduction. Notwithstanding any other provisions or restrictions
provided in this chapter, the following procedures, standards and restrictions
shall apply to all future mobile home developments.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Mobile homes;
      (2)   Accessory buildings;
      (3)   Parks;
      (4)   Parking areas needed for mobile homes or accessory buildings; and
      (5)   Home occupations.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLEAR DISTANCE. The unobstructed distance from a given point, mobile
home, or line to the closest point or points of adjacent mobile home(s).
      MOBILE HOME. Factory-constructed, transportable structure designed for
permanent residential use when placed upon a foundation and connected to
utilities. The minimum length of a mobile home shall not be less than 35 feet
excluding the hitch and other transporting appurtenances with a total floor
area of not less than 350 square feet. Mobile homes must meet or exceed federal
and state mobile home construction codes of 1976.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which five or more mobile homes
are harbored for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences and
include all real and personal property used in the operation of the MOBILE HOME
PARK. An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots, which
are leased or otherwise contracted for, is a MOBILE HOME PARK if five or more
mobile homes are harbored there for the purpose of being occupied as principal
residences.
      MOBILE HOME PARK STREET. A public or private way other than an alley
which affords a primary means of access to abutting property within a mobile
home park.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. Any site, lot, field, or tract of land under
simple ownership, or ownership of two or more persons, which is to be divided
into smaller sites, lots, fields, or tracts of land, which are to be sold for
use by the purchaser to park such purchaser’s mobile home.
      RECREATION CAMPGROUND. An area of land on which two or more recreational
vehicles, including campers, tents, RVs or other simple temporary recreational
structures; are regularly accommodated for short-term occupancy with or without
charge. Including the building, structure or fixture of equipment that is used
or intended to be used in connection with providing such accommodations.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreation, camping or travel, either with its own motor
power, or mounted on, or towed by another powered vehicle.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle or other portable structure less than 35 feet
in length, designed to move on the highway, not under its own paper, and
designed or used as a recreational dwelling.
   (D)   Application procedure for mobile home park. The requirements and
provisions of §§
155.080 through
155.123 of this chapter apply to an application for mobile home park. In
addition, the applicant must procure all necessary permits from the state.
   (E)   Mobile home parks design standards. The design requirements of a
mobile home park are as follows:
      (1)   Each mobile home park shall contain a minimum of five acres.
      (2)   Mobile home stands must be so located that when occupied by a
mobile home, the clear distance between a mobile home and any adjacent mobile
home at any point will not be less than 25 feet.
      (3)   No mobile home shall be located closer than 25 feet to any building
within the mobile home park.
      (4)   The minimum depth of front yard of a mobile home park, where such
park abuts a major arterial street is 60 feet. The minimum depth of front yard
of a mobile home park, where such park abuts a minor arterial street is 40
feet. The minimum depth of front yard of a mobile home park, where such park
abuts a local street right-of-way, is 25 feet. If such mobile home park abuts
on two or more streets, then there shall be a front yard on each street as
stated above.
      (5)   The minimum depth of side and rear yards of a mobile home park
shall be 25 feet unless adequate screen planting is provided and as provided
approved by the Plan Commission. When so approved, the minimum depth of side
and/or rear yard shall be ten feet.
      (6)   Each mobile home, or mobile home stand, or mobile home space shall
be provided with two parking spaces adjacent thereto; such parking spaces shall
have unobstructed access to a mobile home park street. No on-street parking
shall be permitted.
      (7)   The clear distance between any mobile home and the centerline of
the abutting mobile home park street shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
      (8)   Each mobile home shall have access to, and the use of a general
storage space of a minimum of 90 cubic feet in a building of fire-proof design,
or storage space under the mobile home may be used provided said storage is
shielded from view by underpinning of the mobile home.
      (9)   The Planning Commission requires curbs and/or gutters in mobile
home parks where, in the opinion of said Plan Commission and/or Department of
Natural Resources (DNR), drainage of surface water, as provided by the
applicant in its development plans, is insufficient to properly carry such
surface water.
      (10)   Surface drainage, as approved by the Planning Commission, shall be
installed and maintained by the applicant(s) or his or her successor(s) in
title.
      (11)   A maximum of six mobile homes shall be permitted per acre. This
maximum shall be determined from the gross acreage of the mobile home park.
      (12)   In approved mobile home parks, there shall be no minimum ground
floor area requirements for mobile homes located therein. Where permitted,
individual mobile homes outside of approved mobile home parks, mobile home
subdivisions and recreational vehicle parks, shall have a minimum of 350 square
feet of ground floor area.
      (13)   Coin-operated laundries, laundry and dry cleaning pick-up
stations, and other commercial convenience establishments may be permitted in
mobile home parks, provided that:
         (a)   They are subordinate to the residential character of the park;
         (b)   They are located, designed and intended to serve only persons
living in the park;
         (c)   The establishments and associated parking areas shall not occupy
more than 10% of the total area of the park; and
         (d)   The establishments shall not be visible outside the park.
      (14)   Foundation skirting shall completely enclose the undercarriage of
each mobile home with a non-decaying, non-corroding material extending at least
six inches into the ground or into impervious material.
      (15)   No individual mobile home within a mobile home park shall have
direct vehicular access to any public street.
      (16)   Signs.
         (a)   One freestanding sign is allowed per entrance to the
development, but each sign shall not exceed ten square feet.
         (b)   Billboards and advertising signs are not permitted.
         (c)   Temporary real estate signs, construction or contractor’s signs
shall not exceed two in number or more than six square feet each.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.048 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Introduction. Recreational vehicle parks are defined as any land used
for the temporary parking of two or more recreational vehicles by campers,
vacationers or travelers.
   (B)   General provisions. In any area in which recreational vehicle parks
are permitted, the following requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Recreational vehicle parks shall have direct access to a public
highway or road with sufficient frontage for the proper construction of safe
entrances and exits.
      (2)   Conditions of soil, groundwater level, drainage, geologic
structure, and topography shall not create hazards to the park site or to the
health and safety of occupants; not shall the site be subject to the hazards of
objectionable smoke, odor, or noise, or the possibility of subsidence, sudden
flooding, or severe erosion.
      (3)   The density of the park shall not exceed 15 recreational vehicle
spaces for each acre of gross site area.
      (4)   The minimum area of a recreational vehicle park shall be five
acres.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles shall be separated from each other and from
other park buildings or structures by a minimum of 25 feet.
      (6)   All recreational vehicles and structures shall comply with required
minimum setback and yard provisions of these guidelines.
      (7)   Where the boundary line of a recreational vehicle park coincides
with that of a residential area other than along a thoroughfare or alley, a
yard separation of at least 50 feet in width shall be required.
      (8)   At least one centrally located recreation area equal in size to 10%
of the gross park area shall be provided in each recreational vehicle park.
Streets, parking area and park service facility areas shall not be included in
the required recreational area.
      (9)   An entry sign is permitted with a maximum size of 20 square feet.
Billboards are not allowed.
      (10)   Food stores, restaurants, sporting good stores, laundromats, dry-
cleaning pickup stations, and similar convenience and service shops may be
permitted in recreational vehicle parks containing 50 or more spaces provided
that shops and the parking are required by their use shall occupy more than 10%
of the total park area. The shops shall be primarily for the use of park
occupants. The shops shall be located and designed within the park to present
no visible evidence of their commercial nature to persons outside the park.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.049 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Introduction. These commercial guidelines are intended to provide
services where they are needed most and to preserve, enhance and encourage the
usefulness and vitality of these areas. Commercial businesses shall be
developed in a manner that reflects the character of the surrounding area.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Drug stores;
      (2)   Beauty salons and barber shops;
      (3)   Carry-out stores;
      (4)   Bakeries;
      (5)   Dressmaking and tailoring;
      (6)   Self-service laundromats;
      (7)   Florist shops;
      (8)   Liquor stores;
      (9)   Photography shops;
      (10)   Grocery stores;
      (11)   Dry cleaners;
      (12)   Restaurants;
      (13)   Medical and dental clinics;
      (14)   Offices;
      (15)   Other uses identified in the permitted land use table; and
      (16)   Other uses approved by the Plan Board that exhibit similar
characteristics as the above and are not detrimental to the surrounding land
uses.
   (C)   Commercial standards.
      (1)   Minimum ground level square footage required: Not more than 80% of
the total area of any lot or any development on multiple lots shall be occupied
by buildings, roads, parking areas, storage, drainage facilities, and other
accessory uses.
      (2)   (a)   Signs intended to be seen outside the lot lines.
         (b)   No sign shall project beyond a lot line, obstruct in any way a
driver’s vision of the road or hinder his or her passage in any way. Further,
no sign shall be placed so as to hinder or obstruct any pedestrian path.
      (3)   Parking and off-street loading requirements (see §§
155.135 through
155.142 of this chapter).
      (4)   Fences, walls and hedges: notwithstanding other provisions of these
guidelines, fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any yard or along the
edge of any yard, providing that driveway entrances are not shielded by fences,
walls and hedges in such a way as to obstruct the view of a driver entering a
public road from the driveway.
      (5)   No unsafe, uncomfortable, or offensive vibrations, noises, visual
effects, odors or air pollutants shall be allowed to radiate across the lot
lines.
      (6)   Exterior lighting will be such that it does not become a nuisance
to the adjacent property owners.
      (7)   Sign restrictions:
         (a)   One freestanding sign at the entryway or other approved location
is allowed, providing that its area shall not exceed 60 square feet.
         (b)   Signs attached to the main building are allowed, but shall not
exceed 15% of the face of the building.
         (c)   Poles that support signs on the building shall be located at
least 15 feet from the property line where oriented towards collector or local
streets, 200 feet from freeways and 120 feet from arterial streets. No self-
supporting sign or parts thereof shall project over a street right-of-way.
         (d)   Temporary real estate signs, construction or contractor’s signs
shall not exceed two in number per lot or be more than six square feet.
   (D)   Special exceptions. Those commercial businesses bordering a
residential area that provide service to the general public within normal
operating hours prior to 6:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m. shall conform to the
following:
      (1)   No unsafe, uncomfortable, or offensive vibrations, noises, visual
effects, odors or air pollutants shall be allowed to radiate across lot lines.
      (2)   Apartment units may be permitted by the Board in commercial
districts where the residential unit(s) is secondary to the principal use and
where the residential unit(s) is above the first floor. Such units will have a
separate primary access to the street and not through the first floor principal
use. Fire escapes, back stairways and the like shall not serve as primary
access.
      (3)   The high water point of a pond or the base of the pond/dam shall be
setback 45 feet from the property line.
   (E)   Residential districts. Wherever a business comes within 100 feet from
any residential district, appropriate screening, such as vegetation, a wall, a
uniformly painted fence, or topography, shall be used to visually screen
loading docks and parking lots from the surrounding dwelling units.
   (F)   Performance standards. See §
155.050(C)(7).
   (G)   Commercial development standards.
      (1)   Site design and community impacts.
         (a)   Road hierarchy is how roads surrounding the site are used to
connect the site to its surroundings. Connecting the development directly to a
major highway is discouraged as a safety hazard due to traffic congestion, as
cars exit or enter the new development. Entrance on a paved county road is
preferred. Entrance on a gravel county road is mandatory.
         (b)   Sidewalks allow workers to move freely throughout the
development without having to walk in the street making the area safer.
         (c)   The conservation of energy allows business owners to save money
and saves local energy companies the cost of expansions. Energy saving provide
the entire community the benefits of lower pollution and should be encouraged.
         (d)   Landscaping provides a more attractive setting for industries,
can reduce summer heating costs and provides wildlife habitat. Buffering
between conflicting land uses is required.
         (e)   Parking lights make industrial areas safer at night and lower
risks of robbery.
         (f)   Higher quality roads and parking make developments more
attractive.
         (g)   Buffering or screening of industrial areas to adjacent land uses
is required if the adjacent land use is residential or recreational, and is
highly encouraged for other conflicting land uses.
         (h)   Employing local labor by using county workers so more money is
brought into their community and commuting costs can be lowered is strongly
encouraged.
         (i)   The use of products made in the county increases economic
activity and can lead to new jobs in the county and is therefore strongly
encouraged.
      (2)   Context and environmental impacts.
         (a)   Subdivisions (and other land uses) built adjacent to conflicting
land uses can cause decreasing land values, create possible safety hazards to
residents and are generally not in the public interest. Buffering is required
between industrial and residential or recreational uses and encouraged between
other land uses.
         (b)   Developments built in isolated areas cost more in infrastructure
and transportation costs and should be discouraged.
         (c)   Close proximity to fire and police services allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (d)   Close proximity to schools and medical facilities allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (e)   Close proximity to commercial developments (must be drug store,
grocery store, department store or convenience store) allows easier access to
every day needed items and reduces traffic.
         (g)   Proximity to industries and major employers allows a quicker
travel time to work and less traffic.
         (g)   Close access to power, gas and water lines provides more
efficient use of limited public resources and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (h)   Close access to roads makes the site easier to get to and
eliminates the need for new access roads to be built and maintained.
         (i)   Erosion control measures should be provided on hillsides to
prevent the loss of ground and reduce pollution.
         (j)   Developments that enhance, not reduce, forest lands should be
encouraged.
         (k)   Prime farm land should not be built upon except as a last resort
to preserve the value of crop production.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.050 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Introduction. Industry criteria have been created to provide minimum
adverse effect to other land uses in the vicinity. Industry businesses shall be
developed in a manner that reflects the character of the surrounding area.
Heavy industrial uses are generally major operations and extensive in character
and require large open sites, open storage and service areas, quick access to
regional transportation, and may generate nuisances such as smoke, noise,
vibrations, dust, glare, air pollution, and water pollution. Heavy industrial
uses should be located away from residential and commercial uses. Light
industrial uses are relatively clean, quiet, and free of smoke, noise, dust,
and pollution.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Light:
         (a)   Public and private utilities;
         (b)   Recreation areas established for the use of employees on site;
         (c)   Temporary construction buildings;
         (d)   Assembly operations for pre-manufactured parts;
         (e)   Canning, bottling, processing and packaging of food;
         (f)   Warehouse and distribution operations;
         (g)   Machine, welding, and tool and die shops;
         (h)   Construction and trucking contractor operations;
         (i)   Soybean processing plant;
         (j)   Meat packing plant; and
         (k)   Other uses in permitted land use table.
      (2)   Heavy:
         (a)   Arsenal;
         (b)   Central mixing plant for mortar, plaster, concrete, paving
material or asphalt;
         (c)   Dehydration plant;
         (d)   Cement lime ingredient, lime, gypsum and plaster;
         (e)   Petroleum refinery and distillation;
         (f)   Smelting of ore or metal;
         (g)   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline or other petroleum
products;
         (h)   Railroad storage yards or shops;
         (i)   Sanitary landfills, reduction or incineration of trash, garbage,
offal, or dead animals;
         (j)   Fat rendering;
         (k)   Manufacture of acid, alcohol, ammonia, bleaching powder,
celluloid, explosives, gas, glue, proxylin or nitrocellulose; and
         (l)   Other uses in permitted land use table.
      (3)   Mineral extraction:
         (a)   Limestone and other rock quarries;
         (b)   Gravel pits;
         (c)   Stone processing plants; and
         (d)   Coal mines.
   (C)   Industrial standards with performance standards. Industrial standards,
with performance standards, as measured at the boundary lines of this
manufacturing district, are maximums. Firms which exceed these standards are
considered to be in violation of this master plan.
      (1)   Signs intended to be seen outside the lines.
         (a)   No sign shall project beyond a lot line, obstruct in any way a
driver’s vision of the road, or hinder his or her passage in any way. Further,
no sign shall be placed so as to hinder or obstruct any pedestrian path.
         (b)   Signs should always be property maintained.
      (2)   Parking requirements. See parking restrictions table.
      (3)   Fences, walls and hedges. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or
along the edge of any yard, providing that driveway entrances are not shielded
by fences, walls or hedges in such a way as to obstruct the view of a driver
entering a public road from the driveway.
      (4)   Off-street loading requirements. On the same premises with every
building or structure, hereafter erected and occupied for uses involving the
receipt or distribution by vehicle of material or merchandise, there shall be
provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for standing, loading, and
unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the street or
alley.
      (5)   Residential district. Wherever a business comes within 100 feet of
any residential district, appropriates screening, such as vegetation, a wall, a
uniformly painted fence, or topography, shall be used to visually screen
loading docks and parking lots from the surrounding dwelling units.
      (6)   Restrictions. Restrictions for permitted uses and conditional uses.
      (7)   Performance standards. All permitted uses established or placed
into operation after the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following performance standards in the interest of protecting public health,
safety and welfare, and lessening injury to property. No use in existence on
the effective date of this chapter shall be so altered as to conflict (or
increase an existing conflict) with these standards.
         (a)   Fire protection. Fire fighting equipment and prevention measures
acceptable to the local fire department shall be readily available and apparent
when an activity involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive
materials is conducted.
         (b)   Electrical disturbance. No use shall cause electrical
disturbance adversely affecting radio, television or other equipment in the
vicinity of the use.
         (c)   Noise. No use shall produce noise in such a manner as to be
objectionable because of volume, frequency, intermittence, heat, shrillness or
vibration. Such noise shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so as not to
become detrimental, provided however, that public safety sirens and related
apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be exempt from this standard.
         (d)   Vibration. No use shall cause vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond lot lines without the aid of instruments.
         (e)   Air pollution. No use shall discharge across lot lines fly ash,
dust, smoke, vapors, noxious, toxic or corrosive matter, or other air
pollutants in such concentration as to be detrimental to health, animals,
vegetation, or property and/or in conflict with relevant air quality standards
established by state and/or federal agencies.
         (f)   Heat and glare.  No use shall produce heat or glare in such
manner as to create a nuisance perceptible from any point beyond the lot lines
of the property on which the use is conducted. In nonresidential areas, any
lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, loading area, driveway,
or service drive shall be shielded with appropriate light fixtures directing
the light down and away from adjacent properties in order that the illumination
at any property line shall not exceed one foot candle. All exterior lighting
shall be hooded and shielded so that the light source (such as, bulb, filament
and the like) is not directly visible from the residential property lines. In
residential areas, exterior lighting at any property line shall not exceed one
foot candle.
         (g)   Water pollution. No use shall produce erosion or other
pollutants in such quantity as to be detrimental to adjacent properties and
conflict with relevant water pollution standards established by state and/or
federal agencies.
         (h)   Waste matter. No use shall accumulate within the lot, or
discharge beyond the boundary lines of the lot on which the use is located, any
waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in violation of applicable public
health, safety and welfare standards and regulations.
      (8)   Violation of performance standards. When rough tests by a duly
constituted enforcement officer indicate to the Plan Commission a possible
violation of the performance standards, the Plan Commission shall require the
manufacturer to obtain and bear the cost of the appropriate technical
assistance to ascertain the exact amount of emissions of noxious effects at the
lot lines of the manufacturing property in question. This technical assistance
shall be approved in writing by the Plan Commission before tests are conducted.
Results of said test shall be presented to the Plan Commission in writing. Any
test result in excess of the appropriate performance standard shall be
considered in violation of this master plan.
      (9)   Extractive industry standards. In addition to all restrictions set
out for industry, the following shall also apply:
         (a)   Before any excavation is begun, there shall be a plan on file,
with and approved by both the State Department of Natural Resources and the
Plan Commission for both excavation and reclamation activities; and
         (b)   Any excavation shall be surrounded by a fence not less than
seven feet high.
   (D)   Industry development standards.
      (1)   Site design and community impacts.
         (a)   Road hierarchy is how roads surrounding the site are used to
connect the site to its surroundings. Connecting the development directly to a
major highway is discouraged as a safety hazard due to traffic congestion and
as cars exit or enter the new development. Entrance on a paved county road is
preferred. Entrance on a gravel county road is mandatory.
         (b)   Sidewalks allow workers to move freely throughout the
development without having to walk in the street making the area safer.
         (c)   The conservation of energy allows business owners to save money
and saves local energy companies the cost of expansions. Energy saving provide
the entire community the benefits of lower pollution and should be encouraged.
         (d)   Landscaping provides a more attractive setting for industries,
can reduce summer heating costs and provides wildlife habitat. Buffering
between conflicting land uses is required.
         (e)   Parking lights make industrial areas safer at night and lower
risks of robbery.
         (f)   Higher quality roads and parking make developments more
attractive.
         (g)   Buffering or screening of industrial areas to adjacent land uses
is required if the adjacent land use is residential or recreational, and is
highly encouraged for other conflicting land uses.
         (h)   Employing local labor by using county workers so more money is
brought into their community and commuting costs can be lowered is strongly
encouraged.
         (i)   The use of products made in the county increases economic
activity and can lead to new jobs in the county and is therefore strongly
encouraged.
      (2)   Context and environmental impacts.
         (a)   Subdivisions (and other land uses) built adjacent to conflicting
land uses can cause decreasing land values, create possible safety hazards to
residents and are generally not in the public interest. Buffering is required
between industrial and residential or recreational uses and encourage between
other land uses.
         (b)   Developments built in isolated areas cost more in infrastructure
and transportation costs and should be discouraged.
         (c)   Close proximity to fire and police services allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (d)   Close proximity to schools and medical facilities allows better
services at less public cost and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (e)   Close proximity to commercial developments (must be drug store,
grocery store, department store or convenience store) allows easier access to
every day needed items and reduces traffic.
         (f)   Proximity to industries and major employers allows a quicker
travel time to work and less traffic.
         (g)   Close access to power, gas and water lines provides more
efficient use of limited public resources and therefore is strongly encouraged.
         (h)   Close access to roads makes the site easier to get to and
eliminates the need for new access roads to be built and maintained.
         (i)   Erosion control measures should be provided on hillsides to
prevent the loss of ground and reduce pollution.
         (j)   Developments that enhance, not reduce, forest lands should be
encouraged.
         (k)   Prime farm land should not be built upon except as a last resort
to preserve the value of crop production.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.051 AGRICULTURAL LAND.
   (A)   Introduction. These provisions are established to protect suitable
land for active agricultural production in the county. Agricultural production
is recognized as the primary economic activity in the county, and certain lands
are particularly suited to such uses because of their size, configuration,
soil, topography, and locations in relation to other land uses. This master
plan is intended to prevent the conversion of such agricultural lands to urban
uses and to promote proper land utilization.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Field crop farm;
         (b)   Truck crop farm;
         (c)   Animal husbandry;
         (d)   Kennels;
         (e)   Stables;
         (f)   Forestry;
         (g)   Veterinary office;
         (h)   Nursery or greenhouse;
         (i)   Grazing;
         (j)   Public utilities;
         (k)   Feed stores, excluding the milling or grinding of any feed for
commercial purposes;
         (l)   Confined feeding operations;
         (m)   Fertilizer storage;
         (n)   Other uses identified in permitted land use table; and
         (o)   Estate residential.
      (2)   Signs intended to be seen outside the lot lines.
         (a)   Non-flashing illuminated on-premises signs are permitted.
         (b)   Not more than one 12-foot sign per principal use is permitted.
         (c)   No sign shall project beyond a lot line, obstruct in any way a
driver’s vision of the road or hinder his or her passage in any way. Further,
no sign shall be placed so as to hinder or obstruct any pedestrian path.
      (3)   Visibility at intersections. On a corner lot, nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede visions between a height of two and one-half to ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the areas bounded by the
street lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along said street
lines 50 feet from the point of the intersection.
      (4)   Fences, walls and hedges. Notwithstanding other provisions of these
guidelines, fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any yard or along the
edge of any yard, providing that driveway entrances are not shielded by fences,
walls and hedges in such a way as to obstruct the view of a driver entering a
public road from the driveway.
      (5)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings (estate residential with one single-
family dwelling per five acre parcel);
         (b)   Roadside stand;
         (c)   Truck farm market;
         (d)   Home occupation;
         (e)   Primary farm processing;
         (f)   Any use customarily accessory to any permitted use;
         (g)   Grain storage;
         (h)   Storage and management of animal wastes; and
         (i)   Barns, tool sheds and implement storage buildings.
      (6)   Development standards.
         (a)   The minimum parcel size for all uses in the agriculture district
shall be five acres.
         (b)   The maximum density for residential use shall be one permitted
residential structure for each five acres.
      (7)   Setback requirements. Setback requirements for confined feeding
operations must conform to I.C. 13-1-5.7-1.
      (8)   High water point. The high water point of a pond and/or the base of
the pond/dam shall be setback 45 feet from any property line.
      (9)   Storage. Abandoned, junked, inoperable or derelict vehicles, scrap
or building debris may not be stored unless within a building or structure.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2004-19, passed 7-
14-2004) Penalty, see §
155.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUDS)
§ 155.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Planned Unit Development (PUD) is to provide for land use
developments where a variety of residential, commercial and industrial uses are
planned and developed as a whole. A PUD shall conform to the following
guidelines:
   (A)   Up to 25% of the gross land area in a PUD may be used for commercial,
industrial and non-recreational public uses.
   (B)   Each PUD shall have common open space. At least 10% of the gross land
area in a PUD shall be allocated for parks, open space and recreational
purposes.
   (C)   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and
harmonious design of buildings in the commercial and industrial areas and the
parcels shall be developed in park-like surroundings. The parcels shall be
landscaping, and woodlands used to screen lighting, parking areas, and loading
areas from adjacent residential areas.
   (D)   PUDs will be evaluated through point systems. Subdivisions,
residential, industrial, and commercial areas shall all be evaluated with their
respective site design and community impacts point system. The entire project
shall be evaluated using the subdivision context and environmental impacts
point system. In the case of only part of the PUD being approved, the
unapproved development will have to be approved before any construction begins.
   (E)   PUDs shall be allowed on any land within the county if approved.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.066 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF A PUD.
   (A)   The procedure for subdivision approval shall be followed with the
exceptions below.
   (B)   The applicant(s) shall submit a preliminary site plan in triplicate to
the Plan Board which includes, but is not restricted to, the following
information:
      (1)   The location and boundaries of tract to be developed, showing the
general layout of streets and the existing and proposed land uses of all areas;
      (2)   Tentative placement of all improvements on the site showing how
recommendations of this chapter have been used;
      (3)   General proposals on densities for residential and other uses. To
allow for sufficient flexibility, the Plan Board may allow minor changes in use
location and density, provided that the general overall plan is adhered to; and
      (4)   The proposed schedule for development of the site.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.067 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   A planned residential development must comprise an area of at least
ten acres.
   (B)   A planned office development must comprise an area of at least two
acres.
   (C)   A planned commercial development must comprise an area of at least two
acres.
   (D)   A planned industrial development must comprise an area of at least two
acres.
   (E)   Subdivision, residential, commercial and industrial standards shall be
adhered to as outlined in their respective chapters, unless otherwise approved
by the Plan Board. Flexibility may be allowed for minor changes.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
§ 155.080 TITLE AND DEFINITION.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the “Owen County Subdivision
Control Ordinance.”
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than four lots in
which all lots have at least 50 feet of frontage on an existing street that is
an improved right-of-way maintained by the county (or other local government)
or access by a 50-foot access easement, not involving any new street, the
extension of municipal facilities for nonresidential use, or the creation of
any public improvements other than sidewalk or street trees, and not in
conflict with any provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan, official zone
map, Zoning Code, or this subchapter.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots,
parcels, sites, units, plats, or interests for the purpose of offer, sale,
lease, or development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms, and conditions, including resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the
division or development of land zoned for residential and nonresidential uses,
whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease, map,
plat, or other recorded instrument.
   (C)   Divisions. The following kinds of divisions of existing parcels of
land are herein called “administrative subdivisions.” Administrative
subdivisions are exempt from most provisions of this subchapter, may not result
in or require the creation of an easement or the installation of public
improvements, and must be one of the following types of division:
      (1)   A division of land into two or more tracts of which all tracts are
at least five acres in size;
      (2)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts to correct
errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional building
sites other than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
      (3)   A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land in the
settlement of a decedent’s estate or a court decree for the distribution of
property;
      (4)   A division of land for federal, state or local government to
acquire street right-of-way;
      (5)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts between
adjoining lots provided that no additional principal use building sites are
created by the division. The lots so created hereunder shall have only one
principal use building site each; and
      (6)   A division of land into cemetery plots for the purpose of burial of
corpses. Administrative subdivisions, except type 4 and 6, are subject to the
provisions of this subchapter, but shall be exempt from other provisions of
this subchapter not specified or referred to in those sections.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.081 AUTHORITY TO RECORD PLAT.
   The plat for a subdivision of land in the county shall be recorded only if
it has been approved by the Advisory Plan Commission under the regulations of
this subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.082 PREDESIGN CONFERENCE.
   Prior to submitting an application under this subchapter, the applicant
shall participate in at least one predesign conference with the Planning
Department for the purpose of discussing in an informal manner the subdivision
proposal, including street layout and design, storm water drainage and flood
control, availability of water and sewage disposal, road cuts, this
subchapter’s procedures, governmental agency permits required, and other
planning issues raised in the conference. The applicant shall contact the
Department and set up such a conference and prior thereto provide the
Department with the location and acreage of the subdivision, number of proposed
lots, applicant’s name, telephone number and mailing address, and the owner’s
name. Following the conference, the Department shall prepare and send to the
applicant a brief written summary of the issues discussed at the conference.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.083 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE; WRITTEN APPLICATION.
   A person desiring approval of a plat for the purpose of recording it shall
submit to the Plan Commission a written application and preliminary plat that
includes the following:
   (A)   Name of the subdivision;
   (B)   Names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider and the county
planner, land planning consultant, engineer, or surveyor who prepared the plat;
   (C)   Tract boundary lines, with dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners;
   (D)   Lot layout, showing dimensions and numbers;
   (E)   Parcels to be dedicated or reserved for schools, parks, playgrounds
and other public or community purposes;
   (F)   Building setback lines;
   (G)   Streets and rights-of-way in or adjoining the subdivision, by name,
width, approximate gradient, type and width of pavement and including curbs,
sidewalks, crosswalks, trees, and other relevant information;
   (H)   Location, width and purposes of easements;
   (I)   Location and approximate size or capacity of utilities;
   (J)   Contours at vertical intervals of five feet;
   (K)   Legend or notes;
   (L)   Other features significantly affecting the subdivision;
   (M)   Scale, north point and date;
   (N)   Phases, if any, in which the subdivision is to be constructed;
   (O)   Drainage plan prepared and certified by registered professional
engineer pursuant to state law;
   (P)   Location, owner, zoning and use of adjacent properties, including
location, size and use of all buildings within 50 feet of the lot line;
   (Q)   A description of the protective covenants or private restrictions, if
any, to be included in the plat;
   (R)   A list of all owners (with addresses) of adjacent property as they
appear in the current records of the County Auditor including 911 address;
   (S)   Street cuts onto county or state roads;
   (T)   Source of title, as shown by the most recent entry in the books of the
County Recorder;
   (U)   The flood plain boundaries, if applicable, indicating the
classification of each flood plain area; and
   (V)   The location, size, elevation, capacity, and other appropriate
description of all existing or proposed permanent and significant features,
either natural or man-made, including but not limited to trees, watercourses,
falls, beaches, historic places, rock formations, streets, sewers, drains,
water bodies, swamps or other wetlands, railroads, transmission towers,
existing structures, county ditches, legal drains, water mains, culverts,
utility lines, fire hydrants, drainage structures, and water elevations
(including approximate high-water and low-water elevations) of adjoining lakes,
rivers and streams at the date of the survey (by reference to the USGS datum
plane); the approximate size and capacity of utilities may be presented in a
note on the plat.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.084 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS; ATTACHMENT FOR PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SYSTEM OR PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   If a private sewage disposal system is to be used on any lot, the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a statement, certified by a registered
professional engineer, registered professional land surveyor, licensed
architect, or County Health Department sanitarian, showing sufficient soil to
allow for the proper installation of an on-site sewage disposal system for each
tract or lot pursuant to state and county regulations.
   (B)   If a public water supply or sewage disposal system is to be used, the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a letter from the utility company,
signed by the President and Secretary, stating that the service will be
available for the specified number of lots.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.085 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS; FORM.
   (A)   The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch on a sheet
or sheets 18 inches by 24 inches, except that when the drawing at that scale
requires more than two sheets, the plat shall be drawn at a scale of 200 feet
to one inch. Six copies of the preliminary plat shall accompany the written
application for approval.
   (B)   The plat shall include a USGS topographic map at an appropriate scale
showing the layout of the proposed subdivision and all existing subdivision,
street and tract lines of acreage parcels of land immediately adjoining the
proposed subdivision and between it and the nearest existing thoroughfare. It
shall also show how streets in the proposed subdivision shall connect with
existing and proposed streets in the neighboring subdivisions or undeveloped
property to produce the most advantageous development of the entire neighboring
area.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Res. 2007-27, passed 7-
17-2007)
§ 155.086 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE; FEE.
   The applicant shall pay all fees by a certified check or money order for an
amount specified by the Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.087 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE; ACTION ON THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The Plan Commission staff shall review the application and plat for
technical conformity with the standards set forth in this subchapter, and
within 30 days of receipt of the application for approval, announce the date
for a hearing before the Plan Commission and provide notice in writing to the
applicant. The applicant shall give notice by publication in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1 and provide notice by certified or registered mail to all owners of
adjacent property as they appear in the current records of the County Auditor.
The applicant shall pay all fees and costs associated therewith.
   (B)   If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission determines that the
application and preliminary plat comply with the standards in this subchapter,
it shall make written findings and a decision granting preliminary approval to
the plat. The decision shall be signed by the President of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission determines that the
application and preliminary plat do not comply with the standards in this
subchapter, it shall make written findings that set forth its reasons and a
decision denying approval to the plat, and shall provide the applicant with a
copy of same. The decision shall be signed by the President of the Plan
Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2006-6, passed 3-
6-2006)
§ 155.088 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE; DEVELOPMENT PLAT.
   (A)   General construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of no more than one inch equals
50 feet and map sheets shall be of the same size as the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The following shall be shown:
      (1)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevation lines of all
street;
      (2)   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section
of street pavements including drainage easements, servitude, rights-of-way, and
catch basins; the locations of street trees, street lighting standards and
street signs;
      (3)   The location, size, and invert elevations of existing and proposed
sanitary sewers, storm water drains, and fire hydrants, showing connection to
any existing or proposed utility systems;
      (4)   Exact location and size of all water, gas, or other underground
utilities or structures; location, size, elevation, and other appropriate
description of any existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited
to, existing streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies,
streams, flood plains, and other pertinent features such as wetlands,
railroads, buildings (the water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the
date of the survey, and the approximate high- and low-water elevations of such
lakes or streams. All elevations shall be referred to the USGS datum plane;
      (5)   If the subdivision borders a lake, river, or stream, the distances
and bearings of a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the
ordinary high-water mark of such waterways;
      (6)   Topographic contours at the same scale as the preliminary plat;
      (7)   All specifications and references required by the county’s
construction standards and specifications, including an erosion control and
site-grading plan for the entire subdivision; certification of approval; and
      (8)   Title, name, address, signature, registration number and seal of
the professional engineer and/or surveyor, and date, including revision dates.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.089 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE; SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED FINAL PLAT.
   After approval of the preliminary plat, a proposed final plat shall be filed
with the Plan Commission within two years of approval of the preliminary plat.
Failure to file a final plat for approval within this time period will result
in the preliminary plat and approval thereof being null and void. The proposed
final plat may include all or a phase of the preliminary plat and shall meet
the requirements set forth below.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.090 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   A final plat shall include all of the information and detail of the
preliminary plat, and in addition, shall include the following:
   (A)   Boundary lines by metes and bounds that provide a survey of the tract
(with dimensions and angles);
   (B)   Existing or recorded streets that intersect the boundaries of the
tract;
   (C)   Distances and directions to the nearest established street corners or
official monuments;
   (D)   Street names;
   (E)   Complete curve noted for all curves;
   (F)   Locations, types, materials, and sizes of monuments and lot markers;
   (G)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required by this
subchapter;
   (H)   Restrictive covenants running with the land;
   (I)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or registered land
surveyor that the plat adequately reflects his or her survey;
   (J)   Deed of dedication of streets and other property for public use. This
provision does not require that the streets or easements must be dedicated for
public use;
   (K)   Certificate of improvement or completion bond; and
   (L)   All final plats (administrative, minor and standard) shall be
presented in permanent black ink on reproducible matte-finish Mylar or
reproducible matte-finish polyester film, at least four mil thick, at an
appropriate scale (as determined by the Planning Department) on 18 inch by 24
inch sheets. The sheets shall be numbered in sequence, if more than one sheet
is used.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2011-018, passed
7-18-2011)
§ 155.091 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE; CERTIFICATE OF IMPROVEMENT OR COMPLETION
BOND.
   (A)   Each final plat submitted to the Board of Commissioners shall be
accompanied by one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate that all improvements and their installations have
been completed in accordance with specifications set out in this subchapter.
(On-site inspection shall be required before the Plan Commission hearing); and
      (2)   A bond or certificate of funds in escrow or irrevocable letter of
credit (Ordinance 89-5 dated April 29, 1985) that:
         (a)   Runs to the county;
         (b)   Is in an amount set by the Plan Commission sufficient to
complete the improvements and their installation in compliance with this
subchapter;
         (c)   Is with surety by a company licensed to do business in the
state; and
         (d)   Specifies a completion date for said improvements.
   (B)   The county shall have the authority to move against said bond or
certificate of funds in escrow in the event said improvements and these
installations have not been met by the specified completion date. Any funds
received from said bond or certificate funds in escrow shall be used to
complete the improvements and their installation. Release of bond or other
financial security noted above shall be approved by the Plan Commission only
after a thorough inspection and written report(s) verifying that all
improvements have been made pursuant to the plat approval submitted by the
Planning Department, County Highway Superintendent, County Health Department or
other applicable public/governmental agency.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.092 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE; ACTION ON THE FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The Department shall determine whether the final plat approval
application is complete and shall promptly notify the applicant in writing of
any deficiencies in the application.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat and
make written findings to support its decision.
   (C)   If the final plat materially deviates from the approved preliminary
plat, the subdivision shall be resubmitted to the Plan Commission for
preliminary plat approval. Material deviation includes but is not limited to
increase in number of lots; adds, removes or relocates an interior subdivision
street; affects a condition of approval of the preliminary plat by the Plan
Commission; or would require a waiver of these regulations or negate the basis
for a modification that was granted. The following changes to an approved
preliminary plat may be incorporated into a final plat or require only a final
plat amendment if already approved; minor increase or decrease in the area of a
subdivision; addition, removal or reconfiguration of an easement within the
subdivision; and removal or reconfiguration of an internal lot line within the
subdivision.
   (D)   Subdivisions involving public improvements or dedication of land to
the public require action by the County Board of Commissioners. The Plan
Department will place the subdivision on the Board public meeting agenda when
the improvements are completed or when the assurances or executed agreements
are provided.
   (E)   After the Plan Commission has granted final approval and after the
county has accepted any public dedications, improvements, and/or assurances of
performance and maintenance, the Commission’s seal shall be affixed to the
final plat and the Secretary or, in the absence of the Secretary, the President
shall sign the certificate of final approval.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to file the approved
final plat with the County Recorder within 30 days of the date of execution of
the certificate of final approval. Failure of the subdivider to file the plat,
as herein provided, within 30 days shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.093 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS; ACCURACY.
   A final plat shall show boundary lines that are accurate to one foot in
5,000 feet.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.094 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS; FORM.
   (A)   The final plat shall be prepared at the same size and scale as the
preliminary plat.
   (B)   A final plat shall be filed with the Plan Commission accompanied by
three black or blue line prints. A reproducible original shall be presented to
the Commission for the required signatures. It shall then be returned to the
petitioner.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.095 ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following information must be provided in order for the Director to
determine whether a proposed subdivision may be approved as a type “1,” “2,”
“3,” “4,” “5,” or “6” administrative subdivision:
   (A)   For type “1” administrative subdivisions, a metes and bounds legal
description of the administrative subdivision and the land from which it is
being divided, including the right-of-way and lot design and a copy of the
Auditor’s plat map;
   (B)   For type “2” administrative subdivisions, the old legal and new legal
descriptions and a copy of the Auditor’s plat map;
   (C)   For type “3” administrative subdivisions, a copy of the court decree
showing by legal description how the land is to be divided;
   (D)   For type “4” administrative subdivisions, a legal description and
plat, drawn to scale, showing the parcel and the location of the street right-
of-way;
   (E)   For type “5” administrative subdivisions, a legal description,
including not more than one exception or addition, a plat, drawn to scale,
showing the tract to be divided and the tract(s) to be added to and a copy of
the Auditor's plat map; and
   (F)   For type “6” administrative subdivisions, a plat, drawn to scale, of
the cemetery showing the layout of the private drives, parking areas, and size
of burial lots.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.096 ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Administrative subdivisions are not subject to the subdivision
procedures of these regulations beyond the classification and predesign
conference requirement and the procedures and requirements set forth or cited
in this section. However, administrative subdivisions are subject to the
development standards set forth in this subchapter (such as, height, bulk,
area, density and overlay regulations). And, all lots created through the
administrative subdivision process must comply with such development standards
in order to be developed or improved (except individual cemetery plots).
Furthermore, subdivisions that would result in the amendment of a recorded
subdivision plat are subject to the procedures and regulations for subdivision
plat amendment and/or vacation and are not eligible for administrative
subdivision. Excepting Type 3, 4, and 6 administrative subdivisions, the
administrative subdivision procedures may not be used to render a conforming
lot nonconforming or to increase a nonconformity. However, the procedures may
be used to reduce the nonconformity of a nonconforming lot.
   (B)   In order for a land division to be considered an administrative
subdivision, the information prescribed for the applicable type of division
under these regulations shall be submitted to the Planning Department. The
Planning Department shall be responsible for determining whether the
submissions required by these regulations have been made and whether the
proposed subdivision qualifies for administrative subdivision approval under
these regulations.
   (C)   Before the deed of a parcel that is created through the administrative
subdivision procedure may be initially recorded with the County Recorder, the
Planning Department shall place a notation on the deed to the effect that the
parcel was created through administrative subdivision procedure.
   (D)   In addition to definitional requirements, a land division qualifying
as a Type 1 administrative subdivision shall be shown as meeting the following
conditions:
      (1)   Lots shall be five or more acres in size.
      (2)   If the parcel does not have present access to a public sewage
disposal system, the parcel shall contain within its boundaries sufficient soil
of a kind specified in 410 IAC 6-8.1, or its successor, to allow for the proper
installation of a private sewage disposal system, and shall comply with all
county ordinances and Board of Health regulations concerning private sewage
disposal systems.
      (3)   If the parcel has frontage on a public road, the land divider shall
dedicate to the public real property of a width sufficient to meet one-half of
the required right-of-way width for that specific public road and of a length
along that public road equal to the length of that parcel along that roadway.
      (4)   Each parcel created by an administrative subdivision shall have a
minimum lot width of 200 feet.
      (5)   If the parcel is to be used as a principal building site, and is to
be accessed from a public road, the applicant shall provide the Director with
copies of the driveway permit issued by the county or State Highway Department,
as appropriate, for the parcel.
      (6)   All lots shall have a minimum of 50 feet of frontage on an existing
publicly maintained road.
      (7)   Lots created by the administrative subdivision procedure may not be
further subdivided through the administrative subdivision procedure if the
resulting lots would be less that five acres.
   (E)   In addition to definitional requirements, a land division qualifying
as a Type 5 administrative subdivision shall be shown as meeting the following
condition: if the parcel has road frontage on a public road, the land divider
shall dedicate to the public real property of a width sufficient to meet one-
half of the required right-of-way and of a length along that public road equal
to the length of that parcel along the roadway.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.097 MINOR SUBDIVISION SURVEY DRAWING.
   (A)   The minor subdivision survey drawing shall be presented in permanent
black ink on reproducible matte-finish Mylar or reproducible matte-finish
polyester film, at least four mil thick, at an appropriate scale (as determined
by the Planning Department) on 18 inch by 24 inch sheets. The sheets shall be
numbered in sequence, if more than one sheet is used.
   (B)   The survey drawing shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the subdivision, followed by the words “minor
subdivision”;
      (2)   The name, address, telephone numbers and registration numbers of
the professionals responsible for the design of the proposed subdivision, the
design of the proposed public improvements, the property survey, and the
preparation of the plat and supporting materials;
      (3)   The names and deed record of all interested parties;
      (4)   The written legal description of the property to be subdivided;
      (5)   The date of the plat, legend, notes, approximate true north point
and graphic scale;
      (6)   The parcel boundary lines with dimensions, bearings, curve data,
and references to section, township, and range lines or corners of the property
to be subdivided;
      (7)   The boundary lines of all subdivision lots, with dimensions ,
bearings, curve data and lot numbers;
      (8)   Acreage of each lot, to the nearest hundredth (may be presented in
a table);
      (9)   The accurate location of all existing and platted streets
intersecting or abutting the boundaries of the property to be subdivided;
      (10)   The accurate locations and dimensions of any existing or proposed
easements;
      (11)   The location of all monuments erected, corners, and other points
established in the field shall be shown and noted in their places on the plat.
The legend for metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the diameter
and length of the monuments;
      (12)   The surveyor’s certificate and seal;
      (13)   Reference to the county or state highway right-of-way, existing or
dedicated as necessary, in the written legal description and illustrated on the
drawing;
      (14)   The survey drawing shall be prepared by a land surveyor licensed
by the state; and
      (15)   All numbers appearing on the survey drawing shall be in Arabic
style and all letters and/or words shall be in Roman print in the English
language.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Res. 2007-27, passed 7-
17-2007)
§ 155.098 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   For subdivisions classified by the Planning Department as minor
subdivisions, the applicant may choose to seek approval under the procedures of
this section in lieu of those specified above.
   (B)   Following receipt of the Planning Department’s predesign conference
report, the subdivider may apply for approval. An application for approval
shall:
      (1)   Be accompanied by eight copies of the survey drawing as describes
above together with the supporting materials as follows: a drainage plan; proof
of septic permit approval; if any lot or road in a major subdivision is to
receive access from or intersect with a state highway, a copy of the driveway
permit or approval letter issued by the Indiana Department of Transportation or
a copy of a driveway permit issued by the County Highway Department for each
lot to be accessed by a county road; the recorded deed or land contract for the
proposed subdivision site; the Auditor’s plat map of the proposed subdivision
site; and an eight and one-half inch by 11 inch reduced copy of the preliminary
plat;
      (2)   Be accompanied by the fee established by the Commission;
      (3)   Be accompanied by a copy of the deed prepared for each of the
proposed lots. Each deed must contain at least the following information:
         (a)   Metes and bounds legal description with reference to any
existing or proposed easements;
         (b)   Dedication of right-of-way, to the public, where applicable.
Right-of-way dedication shall be of a width sufficient to meet one-half the
required right-of-way width for that specific public road as indicated on the
county thoroughfare plan or official map and of a length along that public road
equal to the length of that parcel along that roadway; and
         (c)   The following notation: “This parcel was created through the
minor subdivision procedure and approved by the County Plan Commission on (date
of Plan Commission approval).”
   (C)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Planning Department shall:
      (1)   Review the application for technical conformity with these
regulations;
      (2)   Prepare a report and recommendation, including recommended
conditions of approval; and
      (3)   Place the application on the Plan Commission public meeting agenda
and ensure that applicant notifies all interested parties as required by state
law.
   (D)   The Plan Commission shall review the application for compliance with
these regulations. The Plan Commission may approve the application, approve the
application with conditions or deny the application. However, if the Plan
Commission determines that the application and plat comply with these
regulations, it shall grant preliminary approval. The Plan Commission shall
prepare written findings of fact in support of its decision.
   (E)   The applicant’s proposed subdivision shall be subject to the
procedures and requirements for final approval:
      (1)   The Planning Department shall disapprove or grant final approval of
the minor subdivision petition and make written findings in support of its
decision. In order to be recorded, the deeds and survey drawing must be found
by the Planning Department to be in conformance with these regulations and with
the preliminary or Plan Commission approval.
      (2)   Final approval may not be granted until the period to file a notice
of appeal has passed without such an appeal being filed.
      (3)   After the Director has granted final approval, the Commission’s
seal shall be affixed to the deeds and survey drawing.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to file the
approved deeds and survey drawing with the County Recorder within 30 days of
the date of final approval. Failure of the subdivider to file the deed(s) and
survey drawing, as herein provided, shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter.
      (5)   The subdivider, upon recording, shall provide the Planning
Department with one copy of each recorded deed and survey drawing.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2006-6, passed 3-
6-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.099 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT; STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   The design standards required as a condition for approval of a final plat
for a subdivision of land are specified in §
155.100 of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.100 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; APPROVAL OF STREETS.
   (A)   All streets shall be prepared in the manner prescribed in this
subchapter to be considered for acceptance into the county highway system.
   (B)   The petitioner shall obtain a written review and approval of the
proposed street layout and design from the County Highway Superintendent.
   (C)   Drawing details required with permit:
      (1)   Right-of-way: all rights-of-way shall be shown;
      (2)   Typical pavement detail shall indicate:
         (a)   Surface width and thickness;
         (b)   Base width and thickness;
         (c)   Sub-base width and thickness;
         (d)   Shoulder width and slope;
         (e)   Ditch depth and grade per 100 feet expressed as a percent;
         (f)   Fill and cut slopes;
         (g)   Curb details (if used);
         (h)   Drainage structures, size and length;
         (i)   Run-off area and co-efficients used; and
         (j)   Cul-de-sac radius (if required).
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.101 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; LOCATION AND ARRANGEMENTS OF STREETS.
   (A)   The proposed street layout shall be reasonably related to the
topography of the land so as to produce usable lots and streets and shall
provide for access to all lots within the subdivision.
   (B)   Where appropriate, proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary
of the subdivision to allow for normal circulation of traffic in the vicinity.
   (C)   Provisions shall be made for the continuation or projection of
existing streets in the surrounding area except where impractical or
undesirable because of topographical or design considerations.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.102 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)   Permanently dead-end streets longer than 600 feet, as measured from
the center line of intersection streets are strongly discouraged. If allowed,
they shall be provided at the closed end with a turn-around having a diameter
of at least 80 feet or other arrangements for the convenient turning of
vehicles.
   (B)   A street may be permitted to be temporarily dead-ended where it is
proposed to be, and reasonably should be, extended beyond the plat limits, but
has not yet been so constructed. Temporarily dead-ended streets shall be
provided with a turn-around as set forth in division (A) of this section.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.103 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; ACCESS TO AREAS ABUTTING ARTERIAL STREETS.
   If the area proposed to be platted abuts upon or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street, the street plan shall provide vehicular access to
each lot abutting upon the arterial street by one of the following means:
   (A)   A parallel street, supplying frontage for lots backing onto but
separated from said arterial right-of-way by a screen planting or buffer strip;
   (B)   A cul-de-sac, or series of cul-de-sacs, entered from a street
paralleling said arterial, with the terminal lots of the cul-de-sac backing
onto the arterial right-of-way and separated from said arterial right-of-way by
a screen planting or buffer strip;
   (C)   A marginal access street separated from said arterial by a screen
planting or buffer strip, access to the arterial being provided at points
suitably spaced;
   (D)   Any other reasonable means necessary to control the number and
location of intersections with such arterials and provide adequate separation
of through and local vehicular traffic;
   (E)   Access from lots to existing county roads shall be permitted only if
adequate direct visibility is maintained each way from the point of access.
These requirements are not necessary for access to the internal streets or
plotted subdivisions; and
   (F)   Intersections with arterial streets may not exist at less than 500
foot intervals.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.104 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS OF STREETS.
   Street rights-of-way shall conform in width with those specified by this
subchapter:
   (A)   The minimum width of right-of-way shall be 40 feet.
   (B)   A subdivision that is platted along only one side of an existing
street shall provide one-half of the minimum right-of-way, measured from the
center line of the street.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.105 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; GRADES FOR STREETS.
   (A)   The steepest permissible grade for arterial streets shall be 15%.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may authorize steeper gradients based on
topography upon application for waiver of this standard and for good cause
shown.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.106 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; ALIGNMENT OF STREETS.
   (A)   Between reverse curves there shall be a tangent, measured along with
center line, that is at least 100 feet long for arterial streets at least 40
feet long for feeder and local streets.
   (B)   Where a deflection angle of more than ten degrees in the alignment of
a street occurs, a curve with the following minimum radius, measured along the
center line, shall be provided:
      (1)   Arterial streets: 500 feet minimum radius;
      (2)   Feeder streets and parkways: 300 feet minimum radius; and
      (3)   Local streets: 200 feet minimum radius.
   (C)   Direct visibility shall be maintained along the center line of a
street or parkway, measured five feet above center line as follows:
      (1)   State highway: 500 feet minimum slight distance;
      (2)   Arterial streets: 500 feet minimum slight distance;
      (3)    Feeder streets and parkways: 300 feet minimum slight distance; and
      (4)   Local streets: 150 feet minimum slight distance.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.107 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; SPECIAL TYPES OF STREETS.
   The Plan Commission may prescribe appropriate standards for the design of
parkways or other types of streets.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.108 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; INTERSECTIONS OF STREETS.
   (A)   Streets shall intersect one another as nearly as possible at right
angles. In no case shall the angle of intersection be less than 60 degrees.
   (B)   Property line corners at street intersections shall be rounded at a
radius of at least 15 feet, and at street and alley intersections, the Plan
Commission may authorize a greater radius.
   (C)   Street jogs shall not have center line offsets of less than 125 feet.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.109 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts where
needed for loading and unloading or for access.
   (B)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.110 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; UTILITY EASEMENTS AND DEPTH.
   Utility easements at least 11 feet wide shall be provided across lots or
centered on rear or side lots, depending upon the needs of the appropriate
utility. Where the easement is located along a lot line, one-half shall be
taken from each lot. Underground utilities shall be buried at the depth of 32
inches or as otherwise required in Ordinance 200-( ), as amended.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.111 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; SIZES OF LOTS.
   (A)   All lots within a subdivision shall have a minimum size of one acre
and shall have a minimum frontage of 200 feet.
   (B)   Where a public water system or private sewage system is not available,
the Plan Commission shall require that percolation tests be made at the expense
of the subdivider to assure proper operation of individual water systems and
individual sewage disposal systems in accordance with county ordinances and
regulations.
   (C)   All lots shall have a suitable relationship to street and block design
and be compatible with the area’s physical conditions; and all lots shall have
building setback lines which shall be established to compliment the
developmental pattern of the subdivision but which may not be less than the
following:
      (1)   Setback from road right-of-way of at least 75 feet;
      (2)   Setback from side lot line of at least 25 feet; and
      (3)   Setback from rear lot line of at least 25 feet.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.112 STANDARDS OF DESIGN; CORNER LOTS.
   Corner lots for residential use shall have sufficient extra width to permit
the minimum building setback from and proper orientation to both streets.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.113 IMPROVEMENTS; APPROVAL OF PLANS FOR AND CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   Streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the dimensions
required by this subchapter and the plans, profiles and cross-sections prepared
by a registered civil engineer or a registered land surveyor.
   (B)   In order to be considered for dedication to the county as a public
road, streets must be paved with a bituminous surface (not chip and seal) as
set forth in §
155.114 of this subchapter. All streets must meet the minimum standards set
forth §
155.114 of this subchapter. The design must be approved in writing by the
County Highway Superintendent prior to application for development or
construction plat approval.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.114 IMPROVEMENTS; CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR STREETS.
   (A)   Applicability. All applicable provisions of the standard
specifications of the Indiana Department of Highways apply.
   (B)   Pavement width. The minimum width of the surface shall be 18 feet. The
minimum width of alleys shall be 12 feet.
   (C)   Shoulders. The minimum width of the shoulder shall be two feet each
side.
   (D)   Grade. The sub-grade shall be free of all vegetation and roots. Al
embankments shall conform to good construction practices and shall be
constructed of material that will compact readily when rolled with a ten-ton
roller or equivalent vibratory roller. All material will be placed in nine-inch
lifts. The sub-grade prior to the placement of stone or gravel shall be rolled
with a ten-ton roller (minimum) or equivalent vibratory roller and all spongy
and yielding material shall be replaced with material suitable for compaction.
All top-soil shall be removed.
   (E)   Drainage structures for driveways. Minimum size is 12 inches by 20
feet (squash-type pipe). All drainage area and co-efficients shall be shown for
storm drainage.
   (F)   Ditches. The minimum shall be one-foot below the outer edge of
shoulder on a 2:1 slope and of sufficient size to carry the surface water.
Slopes of over 4% may require additional precautions to avoid erosion and shall
be approved by the County Highway Superintendent.
   (G)   Storm water run-off, seeding and sodding. All disturbed areas shall
comply with state and local storm water run-off and erosion control measures
and may need to be seeded to prevent erosion.
   (H)   Curbs and gutters.
      (1)   If a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions that have been provided with curb and gutter or if it averages
more than three lots per gross acre, curb and gutter shall be installed on each
side of the street surface.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall require the installation of gutters along
the boundaries of parking lots so far as necessary for drainage control or
public safety.
   (I)   Aggregate base.
      (1)   Minimum of four inches of #2 compacted aggregate conforming to
Indiana Department of Highways specifications unless in a high moisture area
where requirement may be increased by County Highway Superintendent.
      (2)   The above material shall be compacted with vibratory-type rollers.
      (3)   If sub-grade is of an unstable soil, it shall be undercut and with
stone, conforming to Indiana Department of Highways specifications, placed in
the removal area.
      (4)   The crown (slope) shall conform to the final surface crown (one-
fourth inch per foot to surface base width).
   (J)   Gravel surface.
      (1)   Minimum of four inches of #53 compacted aggregate (stone).
      (2)   Compaction at 91%.
      (3)   The crown (slope) shall be at least one-fourth inch per foot of
surface base width.
   (K)   Chip and seal. Two lays of number 9 stone and one lay of number 11
stone along with one and one-half gallon per square yard of emulsion,
   (L)   Bituminous surface and base. This standard applies to any street paved
with bituminous surface and is required if the applicant intends to dedicate
the streets to the county for public use.
      (1)   The minimum shall be 110 pounds per square yard (approximately one
inch) of Hot Asphaltic Concrete, #11 stone. Type “B” (all stone).
      (2)   The minimum shall be 330 pounds per square yard (approximately
three inches) in Hot Asphaltic Concrete, #9 binder stone.
      (3)   The surface and base material shall be placed by machine and rolled
with a five-ton roller (minimum).
      (4)   The crown (fall of surface) shall be one-fourth inch per foot.
      (5)   The aggregate base shall be primed with RS-2 at a rate of
approximately .10 gallon per square yard.
   (M)   Reinforced concrete pavement.
      (1)   The minimum thickness shall be seven inches.
      (2)   Reinforcing shall conform to the requirements of the Indiana
Department of Highways specifications.
      (3)   Reinforced concrete pavement may be used in place of hot asphaltic
concrete material.
      (4)   Construction requirements shall conform to the Indiana Department
of Highways specifications.
      (5)   The sub-base shall conform to division (I) above.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.115 IMPROVEMENTS; INGRESS AND EGRESS FOR STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The minimum street approach shall be required for all subdivisions.
   (B)   For developments of more than 25 housing units or lots, the approach
dimensions shall be as determined by the County Highway Superintendent.
      (1)   If a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions that have been provided with curb and gutter or if it averages
more than three lots per gross acre, curb and gutter shall be installed on each
side of the street surface.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall require the installation of gutters along
the boundaries of parking lots so far as necessary for drainage control or
public safety.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.116 IMPROVEMENTS; TURN-AROUND OR CUL-DE-SAC REQUIREMENTS.
   Turn-around or cul-de-sac requirements shall be:
   (A)   Radius: minimum shall be 40 feet.
   (B)   Shoulders: two feet around cul-de-sac.
   (C)   Ditches: minimum one foot below shoulder on a 4 to 1 slope.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.117 IMPROVEMENTS; STREET AND TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   (A)   Street signs.
      (1)   At least one street sign shall be installed at each street
intersection within the subdivision.
      (2)   Street signs shall conform to federal and state regulatory
standards.
      (3)   Street signs shall be installed on the northeast corner.
      (4)   All street signs shall be erected by the County Highway Department.
      (5)   The cost of such street signs will be borne by the applicant/
developer at the rate of $100 per sign and said fees shall be paid at the time
of the application and filing of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Traffic signs. 
      (1)   It shall be required that all necessary traffic signs to control
the flow of traffic inside the subdivision be installed by the County Highway
Department prior to acceptance in to the county highway system. The location
and type of traffic signs shall be as recommended by the County Highway
Superintendent and specified by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The cost of such traffic signs shall be borne by the applicant/
developer at the rate of $100 per sign and said fees shall be paid at the time
of the application and filing of the preliminary plat.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2009-014, passed
8-17-2009)
§ 155.118 IMPROVEMENTS; SIDEWALKS.
   If a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other subdivisions
that have been provided with sidewalks or if the subdivision will average more
than three lots per gross acre, sidewalks shall be installed on each side of
the street. If sidewalks are required, they shall be constructed according to
county specifications.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.119 STORM AND SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, an adequate storm and surface water drainage
system shall be installed. The plans for such a system shall be prepared by a
registered professional civil engineer. In approving such a plan, the Plan
Commission may require off-site improvement of drainage outlets to adequately
handle the drainage from the subdivision. In such a case, a statement of review
from the U.S. Soil and Water Conservation District shall be presented to the
Plan Commission with the final plat.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, the natural surface
drainage is adequate, easements for the natural surface drainage shall be
provided.
   (C)   All areas designated by the State Department of Natural Resources as a
part of the 100-year flood plan shall have all required permits from the
Department of Natural Resources prior to approval of the final plat by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Retention basin construction may be required prior to any construction
in a subdivision at an appropriate location to collect any sedimentation or
erosion that would be caused by building of roads or construction of buildings.
The retention basin design shall be shown on the site plan and approved by the
Plan Commission prior to construction. The basin shall be removed only after
approval of the Planning Department.
   (E)   Permanent basin construction may also be required to meet state law.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.120 IMPROVEMENTS; WATER SUPPLY.
   If an existing approved sanitary sewer outlet is available, a complete
sanitary sewer system that connects with that outlet shall be installed. The
plans for installation shall be approved by the State Board of Health and
Sanitation Company (see Regulation HSE 14) and provided by the subdivider. Upon
the completion of the system, the plans for the system as built shall be filed
with the Plan Commissioner and the sanitation company.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.121 WAIVER AND LAPSE.
   (A)   Waiver. If, after the Plan Commission has denied preliminary plat
approval, an applicant believes that a requirement imposed by this subchapter
which was the basis for such denial would cause unnecessary hardship and that
topographical or geological conditions at the site make possible some departure
from the requirement without materially affecting its purpose, the applicant
may petition the Board of Commissioners to that extent to authorize a waiver.
Upon receipt of a written petition for waiver, the Board of Commissioners shall
review the preliminary plat and application, and the decision of the Plan
Commission in denying the application and plat, and place the petition for
waiver on its public meeting agenda. The Planning Department shall provide
notice of the hearing to interested parties as set forth above by publication
and certified mail. The applicant, Planning Department, members of the Plan
Commission, and interested parties will be given an opportunity to be heard at
the public meeting prior to a decision to grant, deny or modify the petition
for waiver. The Board of Commissioners will put in writing its decision and
reasons supporting that decision, and direct the Planning Department to send
the decision to the applicant. To be effective, a waiver and the reasons for it
shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Lapse. If streets, water or sewer lines, or other improvements have
not been substantially completed within two years of the approval of the
subdivision, the subdivision plat shall be reviewed by the Plan Commission to
determine the developer’s intent. A one-year extension may be granted for good
cause or upon showing of substantial completion of the streets and water and
sewer lines. If the Plan Commission determines the developer does not intend to
proceed with the subdivision, the Plan Commission may file a notice of
revocation with the recorded copy of the subdivision plat; or require the
developer to post bond securing the completion of the planned improvements in
such amount as the Plan Commission shall determine will adequately assure the
county that the developer will complete said improvements within such specified
period as is deemed appropriate by the Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.122 VALIDITY.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed as of the effective date hereof. The invalidity of any section,
clause, sentence or provision of this subchapter shall not affect the validity
of any other part of this subchapter. As used herein, the singular shall
include the plural, the plural shall include the singular, and the masculine
shall include the feminine and neuter gender.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.123 SUBCHAPTER IN FORCE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, recording and publication as provided by law.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.135 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter are established to relieve and/or prevent
traffic congestion in the streets, to minimize any detrimental effects of off-
street parking areas on adjacent properties, and to ensure the proper and
uniform development of parking areas throughout the county jurisdictional area.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.136 PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to situations detailed in this
section:
   (A)   All buildings or structures erected or substantially altered and all
uses of land or buildings and structures established or changed after the
adoption of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever a building or structure constructed before the effective date
of this subchapter is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees,
number of housing units, seating capacity or otherwise, and such change or
enlargement creates a need for additional parking spaces. In these cases, the
number of additional spaces to be provided shall be based on the extent of the
enlargement or change, provided that whenever a building or structure existing
prior to the effective date of this subchapter is enlarged to the extent of 50%
or more in floor area, number of employees, number of housing units, seating
capacity or otherwise, said building or structure shall then and thereafter
comply with the full parking requirements set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   Accessory off-street parking facilities in existence on the effective
date of this subchapter and located on the same parcel as the building,
structure or use served shall not hereafter be reduced below or, if already
less than, shall not be further reduced below the requirements for a similar
building, structure or use under this subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.137 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The required off-street parking spaces for any number of separate
buildings, structures or uses may be provided collectively on one lot, provided
that total number of such spaces shall be not less than the sum of requirements
for the various individual buildings, structures or uses computed separately in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   When two or more uses are located within the same building or
structure, off-street parking spaces equal in number to the sum of the separate
requirements for each use shall be provided.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above notwithstanding, two or more non-
residential uses may jointly provide and use off-street parking spaces when
their hours of operation do not normally overlap, subject to the other
requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   All off-street parking spaces required by this subchapter shall be
used only for the parking of vehicles of occupants, patrons, visitors, or
employees and shall not be used for any kind of loading, sales or servicing, or
for the continuous storage of a vehicle for more than 48 hours.
   (E)   Any parking area to be used by employees or visitors shall provide
parking spaces and associated access aisles designated, marked, and located to
adequately accommodate the disabled. Accessible spaces shall be provided in
sufficient numbers and to the specifications of the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) and the Indiana Building Code (IBC). Each accessible or van
accessible parking space shall be located adjacent to an access aisle and in
close proximity to the entrance(s) most accessible for the disabled. The
required number and sizes of such spaces shall be provided regardless of any
other provisions of these regulations or of any reduction in parking
requirements otherwise approved by the Commission or the Board.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.138 PARKING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Locational standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces for all residential uses shall be located
on the same lot as the residential structure or on a lot adjacent to the lot on
which the residential structure is located.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces for commercial, industrial or
institutional uses shall be located not more than 700 feet from the principal
use building.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces may be located in any yard, subject to
applicable setback standards. However, parking spaces may not be located on the
shared portions of shared driveways.
      (4)   Off-street parking areas, except those serving single-family
detached dwelling units, shall be set back from all public rights-of-way lines
a minimum of ten feet. Any such areas abutting a zone or use with a more
restrictive setback shall comply with the more restrictive setback.
   (B)   Parking space dimensions. Off-street parking spaces shall have minimum
rectangular dimensions of not less than nine feet in width and 18 feet in
length, except that parallel parking spaces shall be at least 24 feet in
length. Not more than 10% of the required parking spaces may be compact stalls
with minimum rectangular dimensions of not less than eight feet in width and 16
feet in length. Each such space shall have vertical clearance of at least seven
feet. All dimensions shall be exclusive of obstructions and of driveways,
aisles, and other circulation areas.
   (C)   Parking space access.
      (1)   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or a driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space. The following minimum aisle or
driveway width standards shall apply: 25 feet wide for 90 degree parking; 20
feet wide for 60 degree parking; 20 feet wide for 45 degree parking; and 15
feet wide for parallel parking.
      (2)   Clearly defined driveways shall be provided for ingress and egress
to off-street parking areas.
      (3)   All areas devoted to off-street parking shall be designed to
prevent traffic congestion on adjacent streets. Whenever possible, the number
of traffic access points for uses fronting on arterial streets shall not exceed
one per 300 feet. Where direct access to an off-street parking area is provided
by an arterial or federal and secondary road, acceleration and deceleration
lanes shall be provided on both sides of the access road in accordance with
AASHTO standards.
      (4)   All areas devoted to off-street parking shall be designed so that
no vehicle is required to back into a street. Off-street parking areas that
exclusively serve single-family detached and two-family dwelling units shall be
exempted from this requirement unless direct access to the dwelling unit is
provided by an arterial street.
   (D)   Surfacing requirement.
      (1)   Off-street parking areas (including parking spaces, aisles and
driveways) may use crushed stone except for commercial or industrial uses in
which case the off-street parking shall consist of plant mix asphalt or
concrete.
      (2)   Poured-in-place concrete curbs shall be installed to separate off-
street parking areas from the front and sides of any abutting building or
structure, otherwise barrier curbs may be installed as necessary to safely and
efficiently direct the movement and parking of motor vehicles. Single-family
detaches and two-family dwellings are exempted from this requirement.
      (3)   The off-street parking area shall be drained so as to dispose of
all surface water accumulated in the parking area in such a way as to preclude
channeled or concentrated drainage of water onto adjacent property or toward
buildings.
      (4)   No part of any off-street parking area, excluding drives that do
not provide direct access to abutting parking spaces, shall have a slope of
greater than 5%.
      (5)   The surface of off-street parking areas shall be maintained and
kept in good repair, free from refuse and debris.
   (E)   Screening and landscaping. The Director may condition the approval of
an off-street parking area or for a building or structure that will use an
existing, on-site parking area on: the establishment of buffer landscaping
between the parking area and adjoining or nearby residential districts or uses;
and/or the establishment of a lawn on unpaved portions of the parking area.
   (F)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate a required off-street
parking area shall be shielded with appropriate light fixtures directing the
light away from adjacent properties in order that the illumination at any
property line shall not exceed one foot candle.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.139 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND CALCULATION METHOD.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces accessory to principal uses shall be
provided in accordance with the off-street parking requirements table in §
155.143 of this subchapter, which is incorporated into this section. Parking
space requirements for other uses will be determined by the Board based upon
data supplied by the applicant in response to requests for traffic and parking
data to be furnished with the application for site plan and/or improvement
location permit in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces required
by this subchapter results in a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction
of one-half or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half
shall be counted as one parking space.
   (C)   In the event a specific use is not listed in the table, the planning
staff shall determine the number of spaces required. In making this
determination, the planning staff shall consider the following criteria:
      (1)   The number of parking spaces required for a use list in the table
in §
155.143 of this subchapter that is most similar to the proposed use in terms of
the parked motor vehicles that are anticipated to be generated;
      (2)   The square footage to be occupied by the proposed use; and
      (3)   The number of employees and patrons that are anticipated for the
proposed use.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.140 SHARED PARKING.
   Parking which is to be shared among two or more businesses or land use
activities may be permitted subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   No more than 50% of the parking spaces required for a building or use
may be supplied by parking facilities required for any other building or use.
   (B)   Total parking provided shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of
the greatest combined peak parking demands. Evidence in the form of parking
generation studies or calculations shall be provided upon request of the
Director.
   (C)   The owners of the properties shall submit a written commitment
guaranteeing that the parking spaces shall be provided and maintained as
stipulated in the approved site plan, so long as parking is required for the
properties in question or until the required parking is provided by other
means. Such commitment shall be recorded by the property owners in the County
Recorder’s Office and a copy filed with the Planning Department.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.141 LOADING AREA DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Location and screening. Where loading berths are provided, they shall
be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. Loading berths shall be
screened by either building walls, a solid fence, densely planted shrubbery, or
any combination thereof, none of which may be less than six feet in height at
maturity. Loading berths may not be located in a front setback in any zoning
district.
   (B)   Loading berth access. Each required off-street loading berth shall be
designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a
manner which will least interfere with traffic movement.
   (C)   Utilization. Loading activities may not utilize required off-street
parking spaces or access thereto.
   (D)   Plan required. The location of loading activities must be shown on any
site plan submitted for review.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.142 MINIMUM LOADING AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street loading berths shall be provided as follows:
   (A)   Business and professional offices, medical facilities, schools,
motels/hotels, clubs and similar business uses: one loading berth for each
100,000 square feet of space or additional fraction thereof.;
   (B)   Industrial, manufacturing and warehousing: one loading berth for each
40,000 square feet of space or additional fraction thereof.
   (C)   Other commercial uses: one loading berth for businesses with 5,000 to
10,000 square feet of space and two loading berths for businesses with 10,001
to 25,000 square feet of space, plus one additional berth for each additional
25,000 square feet of space or fraction thereof.
   (D)   Loading berths may not be counted as parking spaces, driveways or
aisles for purposes of meeting the off-street parking requirements of this
subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.143 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS TABLE.
Use Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirement
Use                                Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirement
   Agricultural Uses
Agricultural uses - land animal    Dwelling unit requirements only
related
Agricultural uses - non-animal     Dwelling unit requirements only
related
Aquaculture                        Dwelling unit requirements only
Commercial non-farm animals        Dwelling unit requirements only
Confined feeding operation         1/employee
Equine services                    1/4 stalls + 1/employee
Feed lot                           1/employee
Feed mill                          2/1,000 GFA
Stockyard                          1/employee on largest shift
   Amusement and Recreational Services
Amphitheater                       1/4 persons at maximum capacity
Club or lodge                      1/4 persons at maximum capacity
Indoor theater                     1/4 seats
Outdoor drive-in theater           1/employee
Park and recreational services     1/10,000 square feet outdoor + 1/1,000
                                   square feet indoor
Private recreational facility      5/1,000 GFA
Resorts                            ½ members + spaces required each accessory
                                   use
Rodeo                              1/4 seats
                                   5/1,000 GFA enclosed area + 1/3 persons
Transient amusement enterprises    that outdoor facilities designed for at
                                   maximum capacity
   Automotive and Transportation Services
Automotive paint shop              1/service bay + 1/employee
Automotive rentals                 2/1,000 GFA
Automotive repair shop             1/service bay + 1/employee on largest shift
Automotive tire repair             2/1,000 GFA
Bus terminal                       10/1,000 GFA waiting area
Car wash, self-serve               3 stacking spaces/bay
Car wash, full-serve               6 stacking spaces + ½ employees
Cold storage plant                 1/employee on largest shift
Gasoline service station           1.5/fuel nozzle + 20/1,000 GFA enclosed
                                   area
Grain elevator                     1/employee on largest shift
Taxicab stand                      1/employee + 1/vehicle used in operation
Transfer or storage terminal       1/employee on largest shift
Trucking terminal                  1/employee + 1/vehicle used in operation
Wrecker service                    1/employee +1/vehicle used in operation
   Business and Personal Services
Air cargo and package service      3.3/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Aircraft charter service           1/employee + 1/4 seats in waiting area
Airport transportation service     1/employee + 1/4 seats in waiting area
Appliance repair                   2/1,000 GFA+ 1/employee
Auction house                      1/4 seats
Barber service                     10/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Beauty service                     10/1,000 GFA + 1 /employee
Bed and breakfast                  1/guest room + dwelling unit requirements
Bottled gas storage and            2/1,000 GFA
distribution
Central garbage/rubbish collection 2/1,000 GFA (minimum 5 spaces required)
facility
Coin-operated cleaning/laundry     5/1,000 GFA
Composting operation               1/employee
Convenience storage                1/1,000 GFA
Copy service                       4/1,000 GFA
Dry cleaning and laundry pickup    1/employee
Dry cleaning and laundry service   3 + 1/1,000 GFA
Electrical repair                  2/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Employment agency                  4/1,000 GFA
Equipment rental                   3/1,000 GFA
Estate services                    1.5/1,000 GFA
Exterminating service              1.25/1,000 GFA
Financial service                  5/1,000 GFA + 4 stacking spaces/drive-in
                                   lane
Gunsmith                           13/1,000 GFA
                                   1/room or suite + 1/3 employees on largest
Hotel (and motel)                  shift + 1/3 persons to the maximum capacity
                                   of each meeting/banquet room
Insurance agency                   2.5/1,000 GFA
Interior decorating                2.5/1,000 GFA
Legal service                      2.5/1,000 GFA
Locksmith                          3/1,000 GFA
Office equipment repair            2/1,000 GFA
Pet services                       3/1,000 GFA
Photographic services              2.5/1,000 GFA
Real estate agency                 3.3/1,000 GFA
Remote garbage/rubbish removal     2/1,000 GFA (minimum 5 spaces required)
facility
Shoe repair                        2/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Small engine and motor repair      2/1,000 GFA
Tailoring                          5/1,000 GFA
Taxidermist                        2/1,000 GFA
Travel agency                      4/1,000 GFA
Upholstery service                 3.3/1,000 GFA
Veterinary service (indoor)        2/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Veterinary service (outdoor)       1/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
   Manufacturing, Mining, Construction and Industrial Uses
All uses                           1/employee on largest shift + 1/vehicle
                                   used in operation of industry
   Public, Semipublic and Office Facilities
Airport                            1/employee + 1/vehicle used in operation +
                                   1/number of vehicles at peak hour
Camping facility                   1/unit + 1/employee
Cemetery                           1/employee + space on private drives
Charitable, fraternal or social    1/4 persons at capacity
organization
Community center                   3/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Cultural facility                  2.5/1,000 GFA
Day care facility                  1/4 clients + 1/employee
Funeral home                       1/4 seats
Governmental facility              3/1,000 GFA
Group home                         1/employee on largest shift + 1/5 clients
                                   or 1.7/1,000 GFA
Hospital                           1/4 beds + ½ employees on largest shift
Medical clinic                     3/doctor + 1/employee
Nursing home                       14 beds + 1/employee on largest shift
Office                             1.3/1,000 GFA
Office showroom                    2/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Postsecondary educational          1/5 students + 1/employee
institution
Religious facilities               1/4 seats
Retirement center                  4/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
School (K - 8)                     1/classroom + 1/employee
School (9 - 12)                    1/4 students + 1/employee
Utility service facility           1/employee on largest shift
Wastewater treatment facility      1/employee on largest shift
Water treatment facility           1/employee on largest shift
   Residential Uses
Boarding house                     1/rented room + dwelling unit requirements
Elderly housing                    0.8/unit
Home occupation
   Class I                      Dwelling unit requirements
   Class II                     1/employee + dwelling unit requirements
Home based business                1/employee + dwelling unit requirements
Manufactured home park             2 spaces/unit
Multi-family dwelling
   1 bedroom                    1 space/unit
   2 bedroom                    1.6 spaces/unit
   3 bedroom                    1.8 spaces/unit
   4 bedroom                    2 spaces/unit
   Each additional bedroom      Add 0.5 spaces
Single-family dwelling             2 spaces/unit
Two-family dwelling                2 spaces/unit
   Retail and Wholesale Trade
Agricultural sale barn             1/4 seats
Agricultural supply                2/1,000 GFA
Apparel shop                       3/1,000 GFA
Appliance sales                    2/1,000 GFA
                                   2/1,000 GFA enclosed sales area + 1/2,500
Automotive sales                   GFA open sales area + 2/service bay + 1/
                                   employee (minimum 5 spaces required)
Automotive supply                  2.5/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Bakery (retail)                    5/1,000 GFA
Bakery (wholesale)                 5/1,000 GFA sales area + 1/employee
Bookstore                          3/1,000 GFA
Building materials                 5/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Cabinet sales                      2/1,000 GFA
Camera and photographic supply     3/1,000 GFA
Caterer                            2/1,000 GFA
Confectionery                      2/1,000 GFA
Convenience store                  3/1,000 GFA + 1/employee on largest shift
Department store <25,000 GLA       4/1,000 GFA
Department store 25,001 - 400,000  3.3/1,000 GFA
GLA
Department store 400,001 - 600,000 3.6/1,000 GFA
GLA
Department store >600,001 GLA      4/1,000 GFA
Drapery sales                      2/1,000 GFA
Drugstore                          2.5/1,000 GFA
Fertilizer sales (bulk)            1/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Fertilizer sales (packaged)        2/1,000 GFA
Florist (retail)                   5/1,000 GFA
Florist (wholesale)                5/1,000 GFA sales area + 1/employee
Fruit market                       4/stand
Furniture sales                    1.5/1,000 GFA
Garden center                      2.5/1,000 GFA
General flooring sales             3/1,000 GFA + 1/employee on largest shift
Gift shop                          3/1,000 GFA
Grocery store                      5/1,000 GFA
Handicrafts                        2/1,000 GFA
Hardware                           2/1,000 GFA
Heavy machinery sales              2/1,000 GFA enclosed sale area + 1/2,500
                                   GFA open sales area + 1/employee
Industrial supplies                2/1,000 GFA + 1/employee
Jewelry                            3/1,000 GFA
Liquor store                       2.5/1,000 GFA
Marine supply                      1/2,000 GFA sales area
Manufactured housing sales         1/2,000 GFA sales area
Meat market                        5/1,000 GFA
Motorcycle sales                   1/1,000 GFA display area
Music store                        3/1,000 GFA
Office supplies                    2.5/1,000 GFA
Optical goods                      2.5/1,000 GFA
Pet shop                           3.3/1,000 GFA
Petroleum bulk sales and storage   2/1,000 GFA
Restaurant                         1/3 seats + ½ employees on largest shift
Restaurant (drive-in)              16.7/1,000 GFA (minimum 4 spaces)
Sporting goods                     3/1,000 GFA
Tavern                             1/4 seats
Used merchandise (antiques)        2/1,000 GFA
Used merchandise (flea market)     3/1,000 GFA
Used merchandise (general)         2/1,000 GFA
 
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
§ 155.155 GENERALLY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the design, construction,
placement, modification, and removal of wireless communications facilities; to
allow the providers of wireless communications services to provide for adequate
coverage and capacity while minimizing the total number and overall impact of
additional towers; to encourage co-location, the use of attached facilities,
and the use of appropriate public and semi-public properties where possible; to
require designs and parameters compatible with adjacent land uses; to conserve
the scenic, historic, aesthetic and environmental quality of the county and the
tourism industry based thereon from the adverse impacts of wireless
communications facilities development; promote long-range planning and
cooperation between the citizens and property owners of the county, the County
Plan Commission and County Commissioners, and the wireless communications
services providers; to protect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.156 PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND EXEMPT USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses include:
      (1)   Co-location: placement of an antenna array if located on:
         (a)   A legal existing or previously approved WCF;
         (b)   A previously constructed broadcast tower; or
         (c)   An existing communications tower where the engineering
specifications of the tower(s) permit and no increase in the height of the
tower is required.
      (2)   Attached wireless communications facilities. Placement of an
antenna array if integrated with/within another existing structure (such as, a
building facade, church steeple or water tower) and no more than a 15-foot
increase in the height of the existing structure is required.
      (3)   Replacement of a legal, existing WCF, support structure or antenna
array. Replacement of a legal, existing WCF, support structure, or antenna
array with a similar facility of an equal or smaller size, subject to the
application procedures, general requirements and abandonment provisions of this
chapter.
      (4)   Placement of antenna arrays or construction of wireless
communications facilities. Placement of antenna arrays or construction of
wireless communications facilities shall be permitted within the Agricultural
Zone.
   (B)   Conditional uses. There are no conditional uses for WCF. Construction
of a WCF in other than an Agricultural Zone requires rezoning pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following wireless communications facilities are
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter: police, fire, ambulance and
other emergency dispatch; amateur (HAM) radio; antennas used solely for
residential household television and radio reception and satellite dishes
measuring two meters or less in diameter.
   (D)   Prohibitions. WCF not expressly permitted under divisions (A), (B) or
(C) are prohibited.
   (E)   Conditions of approval. The following conditions apply to all
permitted and conditional uses:
      (1)   All wireless communications facilities and support structures shall
be designed for, and constructed in accordance with, provisions for co-location
(defined below);
      (2)   Applicants and/or petitioners agree to make a good faith effort on
terms consistent with any applicable national agreement or on terms common to
the region, to accommodate requests for co-location that originate from a
provider, from the WCF owner, or from the Planning Department;
      (3)   Property owners and/or agents shall accept and accommodate the
provisions for co-location prescribed by this subchapter, and shall agree to
the renting or leasing of space on a support structure or WCF, for co-location,
at fair market prices and terms without discrimination.
      (4)   Upon completion of the support structure or WCF, owners and/or
operators of the support structure or WCF agree to make a good faith effort to
accommodate co-location (placement of additional antenna arrays) in a timely
manner, including those WCF or antenna arrays proposed by other service
providers.
      (5)   No approval for a WCF or support structure shall become valid until
authorization (written approval) or a written statement of no objection from
all relevant federal, state or local agencies with regulatory authority has
been submitted to the Planning Department.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.157 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all WCF that are erected or placed
within the county jurisdictional area after the effective date of this
subchapter.
   (A)   For each application, the property owner(s), WCF owner(s), and
wireless communications service provider(s) shall be considered co-applicants
and shall be jointly and severally subject to the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Each permit application for placement of a WCF, WCF support structure
or antenna array shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Application form. A completed application form, with original
signatures from all applicants including the property owner(s), WCF owner(s)
and wireless communications service provider(s).
      (2)   Statement. A written statement with illustrations that describes
the proposed wireless communications facility (type of construction, tower
height and provisions for co-location).
      (3)   Inventory. Inventory of the provider’s existing wireless
communications facilities and/or antenna arrays within the county and within
three miles of the boundaries of the county planning jurisdiction, along with a
plan describing any potential future facility locations. The inventory and
master plan shall include:
         (a)   Locations of all existing and proposed facilities (by property
address, latitude/longitude coordinates, and township, range, section 1/
4 section);
         (b)   Height and type of each existing and proposed facility
(including antenna types, output frequency, number of channels, power output
and maximum power output per channel);
         (c)   For each existing and proposed facility, information on the
practical capacity for accommodating additional co-located antenna arrays;
         (d)   Delineation of existing and anticipated coverage patterns in the
county with brightly colored radial plots showing clear demarcations between
signal strengths: for each existing and proposed facility, signal propagation
and radio frequency studies and plots shall be prepared, clearly identified,
and signed by a qualified radio frequency engineer (power density calculations
shall be in accordance with “worst case” formulas, assuming operation at
maximum power and maximum capacity); and
         (e)   For each existing or proposed facility, type(s) of services to
be provided (such as, paging, PCS and the like.)
      (4)   Site plan. A drawing to scale, with the following information:
         (a)   Property lines, with distances and bearings illustrated;
         (b)   Existing site improvements, including buildings and structures;
         (c)   Existing/proposed roadways and easements on the property;
         (d)   Proposed wireless communications facilities; and
         (e)   Proposed landscaping, including existing vegetation where
applicable.
      (5)   Visual impact analysis. A visual impact analysis that includes:
         (a)   Current photographs of significant man-made or natural features
adjacent to the proposed WCF or support structure, indicating those features
that will provide buffering for adjacent properties and rights-of-way;
         (b)   A photographic presentation that depicts current site conditions
with a superimposed image of the proposed facilities to demonstrate the
anticipated views of the proposed site and facilities upon completion of all
improvements. Four views shall be illustrated, at a minimum, from points
directly to the north, south, east, and west of the proposed facility at
distances no less than one-half mile and no greater than one mile.
      (6)   Maintenance and facility removal agreement. For each WCF or support
structure, a maintenance and facility removal agreement signed by the
applicants and/or petitioners. This agreement shall bind the applicants and all
successors in interest to properly maintain the exterior appearance of all
facilities and, ultimately, remove all facilities upon abandonment in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and any conditions of
approval. This agreement shall bind the applicants to pay all costs for
monitoring compliance with, and enforcement of, the agreement and to reimburse
the county for any and all costs incurred to perform any work required by this
agreement that the applicants fail to perform. This agreement shall be signed
by the applicants and by the Administrator of the Planning Department and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      (7)   Indemnification. The county shall not enter into any lease
agreement or authorize the placement of any WCF or support structure unless the
county obtains an adequate indemnification from the applicants (owners/
operators) and/or wireless communications service providers. This
indemnification must:
         (a)   Release the county from all liability arising out of the
construction, operation, removal or repair of a wireless communications
facility and/or antenna array. Parties to a wireless communications agreement
agree to not sue or seek any monies or damages from the county in connection
with the above;
         (b)   Indemnify and hold harmless the county, its elected and
appointed officials, agents, servants and employees, from and against all
claims, demands, or causes of action whatsoever, and the resulting losses,
costs, expenses, attorney’s fees, liabilities, damages, orders, judgments or
decrees, sustained by the county or any third party arising out of, or
resulting from, each wireless communications facility’s owner’s, operator’s,
agent’s, employee’s, or servant’s negligible acts, error, or omissions; and
         (c)   Provide that the covenants and representations relating to the
indemnification provision shall survive the term of any agreement and continue
in force and effect as to the responsibility of the party to indemnify.
      (8)   Proof of insurance. At a minimum, adequate insurance covering
liability, bodily injury and property damage must be obtained and maintained
for the entire period the wireless communications facility is in existence. The
County Plan Commission shall be named as an additional insured. A certificate
of insurance verifying such insurance shall be submitted at the time of
application.
      (9)   Reports. Copies of inspections or reports that are required by, and
have been submitted to, the FAA and/or the FCC.
      (10)   Fee. The fee, in accordance with the standards set by the Plan
Commission.
      (11)   Proof of escrow account. A certificate of funds in escrow, for the
benefit of the county, in the amount of $5,000 per support structure and $1,000
per antenna array (the amount applicable to support structures shall not apply
to attached WCF). The escrow account shall be established with a bank located
within 60 miles of Spencer, Indiana. The Administrator of the Plan Commission
shall have the authority to draw funds from the account as needed to ensure
compliance with the maintenance, indemnification, insurance and abandonment
provisions of this chapter. The account may be released or closed upon the
discontinuation of the subject WCF and upon demonstration of compliance with
all requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   The requirements of division (B)(6), (7), (8) and (11) are continuing
requirements and are binding on the applicants, their successors and assigns.
In the event of a draw of funds, the applicants shall be required to restore
the escrow account to its original amount. The applicants, their successors and
assigns shall be required to submit documented proof of compliance with the
foregoing requirements:
      (1)   Annually;
      (2)   When ownership of the facility changes;
      (3)   When ownership of the WCF site changes;
      (4)   Prior to the expiration or invalidation of a submitted document;
and
      (5)   Upon any other event that would reasonably call the validity or
effectiveness of the original document into question.
   (D)   The failure to maintain the insurance coverage or the escrow account
in the manner required above shall be a violation of this chapter. In addition
to all other available remedies, the Administrator or Plan Commission may seek
a court order that mandates the maintenance of the coverage or account and/or
that immediately and permanently prohibits the use of the WCF until compliance
with this subchapter is demonstrated.
   (E)   Each application for placement of a wireless communications facility
or antenna array shall be subject to co-location review, as described in §
155.159 of this subchapter.
   (F)   In the manner described in §
155.158 of this subchapter, the Planning Department and Plan Commission shall
employ, on behalf of the county and at the applicant’s expense, an independent
technical expert to review and assess all technical application materials or
conclusions.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.158 PROVISIONS FOR HIRING INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT.
   (A)   Upon submission of an application for a WCF, or petition for amendment
to the WCF overlay, the county shall hire one or more independent consultants
of its own choosing. These consultants shall be qualified professionals with an
appropriate combination of training, record of service, and/or certification in
one of the following fields: telecommunications/radio frequency engineering;
structural engineering; electromagnetic fields (EMF); and, if determined by the
Plan Commission, other fields.
   (B)   The Planning Department shall provide the independent consultant with
a copy of the complete application for analysis and review.
   (C)   The independent consultant(s) shall provide an estimate for the cost
of reviewing the application to the Planning Department. The Planning
Department shall forward this estimate in writing to the applicant and the
applicant shall promptly pay this fee during the review process (separate from
the general application fee). The estimate shall be regarded as a decision of
the Administrator. No application will be processed and no public hearings
(where applicable) will be scheduled until full payment has been made.
   (D)   The consultant(s) shall work under the direction of the County Plan
Commission and/or Board of Zoning Appeals (if a conditional use or variance is
requested). Copies of the consultant(s) findings and reports shall be made
available to the applicant not less than seven days prior to any scheduled
public hearing(s), and the applicant shall be given the opportunity to respond
to said reports in writing and at the applicable public hearing(s).
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.159 CO-LOCATION REVIEW.
   Co-location shall be required for wireless communications facilities or
antenna array, unless specifically exempted by the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (A)   Procedures. The Planning Department shall, upon request and/or
submittal of an application in conformance with §
155.158 of this subchapter, provide applicants with a list of all known
existing and proposed wireless communications facilities or support structures
that lie within one mile of the proposed site and the names of the applicable
owners or providers, based upon the existing inventory of wireless
communications facilities in the county and upon known co-location
opportunities.
   (B)   Basis for relief. Relief from co-location under this section shall
require independent professional verification of the applicant’s data and an
independent professional evaluation that supports exception from co-location.
Relief from this section may be justified by the following:
      (1)   Existing wireless communications facilities or support structures
do not fall within location tolerances based upon radio frequency mapping;
      (2)   Proposed site(s) do not meet minimum height requirements based upon
radio frequency engineering data;
      (3)   Existing wireless communications facilities or support structures
do not meet structural integrity requirements for the proposed antenna array;
or
      (4)   Placement of the proposed wireless communications facility and/or
antenna array would impair, or be impaired by, the emission of radio
frequencies.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.160 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Security. For all WCF excepting attached WCF, a perimeter fence at
least eight feet high shall be installed to circumscribe and contain the WCF,
along with all accessory structures and/or facilities. Use of razor wire is
prohibited.
   (B)   Lighting.
      (1)   Security lighting is not required. However, if security lighting is
installed, it shall be confined to accessory structure(s), directed downward to
minimize glare or intrusion into adjoining properties.
      (2)   Other illumination is prohibited. No WCF, support structure or
antenna array that requires illumination shall be permitted.
   (C)   Landscaping.
      (1)   The following planting requirements shall be applied to all
applications or petitions for construction of WCF and/or support structures:
         (a)   A double staggered row of evergreen trees, planted at seven feet
in height (measured from grade) and at no more than 15 feet intervals along the
perimeter of the fence to screen the facilities from adjoining properties; or
         (b)   A mix of deciduous shade trees (two and one-half inch caliper)
and large deciduous shrubs (at least 48 inches) of sufficient density along the
perimeter of the fence to adequately screen the facilities from adjoining
properties.
      (2)   Existing vegetation within 20 feet of the security fence that is
preserved shall be credited towards planting requirements.
      (3)   The provisions of this section may be waived, in whole or in part,
by the Planning Department upon a determination that: site conditions would not
be adequate to support landscape plantings; or, that architectural camouflage
(“stealth” design) will insure compatibility with adjoining land uses and
eliminate the need for screening.
      (4)   All landscape plantings shall be properly maintained or replaced as
necessary to ensure their good health and viability for the life of the WCF
and/or support structure.
   (D)   Signage. Identification signage, no more than three square feet in
total area, shall be required for each WCF/support structure, and/or accessory
facility. Identification signage shall include the name(s) of the facility
owner(s) or operator(s) and a 24-hour emergency telephone number, and shall be
affixed to a perimeter fence where possible. Off-premise and other advertising
signage is prohibited.
   (E)   Attached WCF. Attached WCF shall be appropriately integrated with, or
within, existing structures with due consideration given to siting/placement,
color, camouflage, size and type of construction. Attached WCF shall be
designed to minimize visual impact and antenna arrays shall not exceed the
height of the existing structure by more than 15 feet.
   (F)   Noise.
      (1)   Noise-producing equipment shall be sited and/or insulated to
guarantee that no increase in noise above ambient levels measured at the
property line occur.
      (2)   Backup generators, if used, shall only be operated during power
outages and for testing and maintenance purposes. Routine testing and
maintenance, if conducted, shall only be conducted between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
   (G)   Materials. Excepting attached WCF, all support structures shall be
constructed of galvanized metal. The provisions of this section may be waived
by the Planning Department upon a determination that architectural camouflage
(“stealth” design) will satisfy the intent of this section.
   (H)   Health and safety.
      (1)   All WCF and/or support structures shall be constructed, operated,
maintained and monitored in compliance with all applicable federal (such as,
FCC and FAA) and state standards and requirements.
      (2)   WCF and/or support structures that would be classified as a hazard
to air navigation, as defined by the Federal Aviation Administration, shall not
be permitted.
   (I)   Other performance standards. Refer to §
155.164 of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.161 TEMPORARY WCF.
   (A)   Temporary WCF or antennas shall be permitted for test purposes,
emergency communications or in the event of equipment failure for a maximum
period of two weeks, subject to the requirements of §
155.157(B)(1) through (5) and (7) through 10.
   (B)   If the applicant is investigating co-location opportunities for a
proposed antenna array, and demonstrates with written documentation that good
faith co-location negotiations are in process, a temporary WCF may be approved
by the Planning Department for a period not to exceed six months subject to the
requirements of §
155.157(B)(1) through (5) and (7) through 10.
   (C)   An improvement location permit shall be required for each temporary
WCF.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.162 AMENDMENT OF ZONING MAPS FOR WCF.
   (A)   Requests for amendments to the zoning maps to allow construction of a
WCF in other than an Agricultural Zone shall be in accordance with the
procedures and requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   In evaluating a request for map amendment, the county shall give due
consideration to the Comprehensive Plan, zoning ordinance, zoning maps, the
contest of the prospective site, the technical constraints and requirements of
the prospective the facility, and the purposes, requirements and provisions of
this subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.163 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Any WCF or support structure that is no longer needed or used for its
intended purpose shall be considered abandoned and shall be reported
immediately by the service provider to the Planning Department. All abandoned
WCF and/or support structures shall be completely removed by, and at the
expense of, the service provider and/or owner within six months from the date
of abandonment and the surface of the site shall be restored to a condition
suitable for redevelopment.
   (B)   Any discontinued WCF or support structures not completely removed
within six months from the date of abandonment may be removed by the county.
Costs associated with the dismantling and removal of an abandoned WCF or
support structure and site restoration shall be paid by the service provider
and/or owner as bound by the terms of the maintenance and facility removal
agreement described herein.
   (C)   In the event that costs are not covered by the applicant as described
in this section, the county reserves the right to withdraw funds, as needed, to
cover costs associated with removal of an abandoned WCF through disbursement of
funds from the escrow account (per §
155.157(B)(11).
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.164 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
Wireless Communications Facilities
Wireless Communications Facilities
Performance standard         All WCF, support structures
Type of construction
(WCF or support structure)   Monopole
Provisions for additional
collocated
Antenna arrays               2 (minimum)
Maximum permitted height1    199 feet
Front yard setback (minimum) 500 feet
Side yard setback (minimum)  1,000 feet
Rear yard setback (minimum)  1,000 feet
1   No WCF, support structure or antenna array shall be permitted at a
height that would require illumination
 
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.175 REGULATIONS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   The regulations set forth or identified in this chapter are provided to
establish procedures, criteria and conditions which shall be met before the
Board of Zoning Appeals may approve a conditional use to the terms of this
chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.176 APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE APPROVAL.
   (A)   A person desiring conditional use approval shall submit a written
application for such approval with the Director.
   (B)   An application for approval shall:
      (1)   Be made on the forms available at the office of the Board and be
signed by the owner of the property subject to the conditional use request
(“subject property”) or by a person who has been authorized to sign the form by
the owner. If the form is signed by a person other than the owner, the person
must submit written documentation of his or her authority to sign the form
(such as, a letter from the owner which states that the person has been
authorized to sign the form);
      (2)   Identify the specific conditional use requested;
      (3)   Be presented to the Director in duplicate;
      (4)   Be accompanied by two copies of an area map which shows the
location of the subject property, the locations of related public and utility
facilities (such as, schools, sewer and the like), and the relationship of the
subject property to the thoroughfare plans for the area;
      (5)   Be accompanied by two copies of a site plan, drawn to an
appropriate scale, which shows:
         (a)   The subject property;
         (b)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and improvements to be made to the subject property, including drainage and
erosion control facilities and features;
         (c)   Accurate dimensions of the parcel, buildings, parking areas and
ingress/egress driveways;
         (d)   Location, owner of record, zoning and use of adjacent
properties, including the location, size and use of all structures within 50
feet of the subject property;
         (e)   Location, right-of-way and pavement width of all streets
adjacent to the subject property;
         (f)   Proposed connections to public utilities; and
         (g)   Landscaping improvements.
      (6)   Be accompanied by any other information reasonably required by the
Director; and
      (7)   Be accompanied by the fee established by the Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.177 CONDITIONAL USE APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   Applications for conditional use approval shall be considered in accordance
with the following procedures.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receiving a complete application, the Director
shall schedule and announce the date and time of the Board’s hearing on the
application. At the time the hearing is scheduled, the Director shall provide
the applicant with written notice of the hearing date and time.
   (B)   Prior to the Board’s hearing on the application, the Director shall
review the application for compliance with this chapter. Following such review
and prior to the hearing, the Director shall prepare and provide the Board and
the applicant with the Director’s written comments and recommendation on the
application, including the Director’s opinion as to any effect which the
proposed conditional use might have upon the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   The Board, and its representatives, at its discretion, may visit the
subject property at any reasonable time during the review process.
   (D)   Notice of the Board’s hearing on the application for conditional use
approval shall be published in two local newspapers of general circulation at
least ten days prior to the hearing, in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
   (E)   At least ten days prior to the Board's hearing on the application for
conditional use approval, the Planning Director, in the manner prescribed in
the Board’s rules of procedure, shall notify all interested parties of the
public hearing by certified mail.
   (F)   At least ten days prior to the Board’s hearing on the application for
conditional use approval, the Planning Director shall post and maintain a sign
on the subject property notifying those passing the property that a request for
conditional use approval for the property has been made. The sign shall be
provided to the applicant by the Director. The cost of the sign shall be borne
by the applicant.
   (G)   The Board shall conduct a public hearing on the application for
special exception approval in accordance with the Board’s rules of procedure.
   (H)   Following the Board’s hearing on the application for conditional use
approval, the Board shall take action on the applicant’s application. The Board
may approve the application, approve the application with conditions or deny
the application.
   (I)   The Board shall make written findings of fact in support of its
decision. The Director shall promptly provide the applicant with a copy of the
Board’s written findings.
   (J)   If the Board approves the application for conditional use approval,
the Director may issue the applicant an improvement location permit and/or land
use certificate subject to the conditions of conditional use approval and the
provisions of the ordinance.
   (K)   If the Board denies the application for conditional use approval, the
applicant may file an amended application. If the amended application is filed
within six months of the Board’s denial of the original application, the
applicant shall not be charged an application fee.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.178 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT.
   The Board shall have the authority to require an applicant to perform an
environmental impact study of the area in which the use is proposed and to
submit the results of the study to the Board.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.179 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   In order for a conditional use to be approved, the Board must find that:
   (A)   The requested conditional use is one of the conditional uses listed in
the zoning district in which the subject property is located. In addition to
the other relevant standards imposed by or pursuant to this chapter, the
standards, uses and conditions set forth in §
155.182 of this subchapter are hereby incorporated as standards, uses and
conditions of this chapter;
   (B)   All conditions, regulations and development standards required in this
chapter shall be satisfied;
   (C)   Granting the conditional use shall not conflict with the general
purposes of this chapter or with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive
Plan;
   (D)   The conditional use property can be served with adequate utilities,
access streets, drainage and other necessary facilities;
   (E)   The conditional use shall not involve any element or cause any
condition that may be dangerous, injurious or noxious to any other property or
persons, and shall comply with performance standards delineated in this
chapter;
   (F)   The conditional use shall be situated, oriented and landscaped
(including buffering) to produce a harmonious relationship of buildings and
grounds with adjacent structures, property and uses;
   (G)   The conditional use shall produce a total visual impression and
environment which is consistent with the environment of the neighborhood;
   (H)   The conditional use shall organize vehicular access and parking to
minimize traffic congestion in the neighborhood; and
   (I)   All permits required by other federal, state and local agencies have
been obtained.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.180 CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
   All conditional use approvals shall be considered approvals. The Board shall
have the authority to impose specific conditions as part of its approval in
order to protect the public health, and for reasons of safety, comfort and
convenience (such as, to ensure compatibility with surroundings). A conditional
use approval may be denied or revoked where the applicant fails to comply with
specific conditions made a part of the approval by the Board, or fails to
comply with a reasonable request of the Board or the Director for furnishing
specific information related to the proposed use. Failure to comply with the
conditions of approval shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.181 MISCELLANEOUS GUIDELINES.
   (A)   If there are other valid reasons for denying a conditional use
application, the denial may be sustained even if the proposed conditional use
constitutes the highest and best use which can be made of the subject property.
   (B)   The Board may not deny a permit solely for the purpose of limiting the
number of similar uses in an area. However, the Board may require that
reasonable minimum distances be maintained between similar uses as a condition
of approval.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.182 SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR CONDITIONAL USE APPROVALS.
   (A)   Standards for conditional use permits. No conditional use permit shall
be granted pursuant to this chapter unless the applicant shall establish that
the specific standards for the conditional use have been or shall be met. The
proposed use and development shall also comply with any additional standards
imposed upon the particular use below.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
         (a)   The operator shall reside on the property;
         (b)   The establishment shall maintain a maximum of three guest rooms;
         (c)   The establishment shall provide one parking space per guest room
in addition to the spaces required for the dwelling unit; and
         (d)   The building and its parking facilities shall be designed for
compatibility with the surrounding properties.
      (2)   Day care centers.
         (a)   Proof of licensing or exemption from the state shall be
presented with the application;
         (b)   Operator shall be responsible for compliance with all applicable
city ordinances and state and federal statutes and regulations;
         (c)   The center shall be screened from adjacent properties with a
fence or vegetative buffer, and an adequate fenced play area shall be provided;
         (d)   The minimum lot size shall be 15,000 square feet or the minimum
lot size for the district, whichever is greater;
         (e)   Site design and supervision characteristics shall insure that
the peace and safety of the surrounding area shall not be impaired;
         (f)   No center shall be approved within 500 feet of another center;
and
         (g)   If located in a residential zone or subdivision, the center
shall be located adjacent to the arterial street used by the subdivision for
access and have, if possible, a separate entrance for ingress and egress to the
center and/or adequate parking on the lot where the center is located.
      (3)   Drive-through uses.
         (a)   Structures shall be located so as to minimize impacts on
adjacent property and the character of the streetscape;
         (b)   Design of maneuvering and stacking aisles shall not interfere
with circulation or visibility for traffic either on or off site and shall be
designed to minimize headlight glare to adjacent property and streets.
Applicant shall provide reasonable estimates of peak stack needs and
accommodate those needs on the site plan; and
         (c)   The radius and width of maneuvering areas shall be as required
by Planning Department and Highway Superintendent.
      (4)   Places of worship.
         (a)   Design of the structure and site shall be compatible with the
surrounding area; and
         (b)   Facilities shall have adequate access to collector or arterial
streets and traffic shall not travel through a residential neighborhood on
local streets.
      (5)   Medical centers or clinics and rehabilitative facilities.
         (a)   The design of the site and structure, and the intensity of use
and population density shall be compatible with the surrounding area;
         (b)   Adequate access is provided to a street classified as a
collector or arterial;
         (c)   Peace and safety of the surrounding area shall not be impaired;
and
         (d)   If located in a residential zone or subdivision, the center
shall be located adjacent to the arterial street used by the subdivision for
access and have, if possible, a separate entrance for ingress and egress to the
center and/or adequate parking on the lot where the center is located.
      (6)   Commercial uses in industrial districts.
         (a)   Applicant shall demonstrate to the Board’s satisfaction that the
proposed use is a retail, restaurant, tavern, gasoline service station or
business or consumer-oriented office/service use, and the proposed use will
serve primarily the industries of the district in which they are located, and/
or their employees;
         (b)   A maximum of 10% of the total area of an industrial property may
be occupied by such uses; and
         (c)   Individual retail enterprises shall be limited to a maximum
floor area of 3,000 square feet.
      (7)   Industrial uses with potentially adverse effects.
         (a)   The following uses may be approved as a conditional use:
            1.   Petrochemical facilities;
            2.   Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products;
            3.   Processing of meat, poultry, or seafood and other agricultural
products, solid waste disposal;
            4.   Manufacture of paper products;
            5.   Manufacture of paving material and concrete block;
            6.   Motor or bus terminal;
            7.   Pharmaceuticals other than light manufacturing; and
            8.   Metal fabrication other than light manufacturing.
         (b)   Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and its impact upon
development objectives of the plan, including review by the Plan Commission and
recommendation to the Board of Zoning Appeals;
         (c)   Proposed use shall not present undue risk of fire, explosion or
release of harmful materials;
         (d)   Applicant shall submit data which details the environmental and
other effects of proposed use and which quantifies the potential risks in terms
of noise, dust, odor, traffic, and discharges to the air, ground water, or
surface water. Statement shall be certified by a professional engineer (PE) and
presented to the Board at time of application;
         (e)   The Board may require mitigation measures such as careful
arrangement of buildings and uses on the site, a means of reducing noise and
emissions, and may require screening or setbacks greater than normally
required; and
         (f)   Board may require post-construction testing or inspection at
appropriate times and intervals to ensure ongoing compliance with the
applicant’s representations of impact and any required mitigation measures.
      (8)   Outdoor storage yards which are accessory to permitted principal
uses.
         (a)   Yards may be set back from side and rear lot lines not less than
one-half the setback required for buildings on the lot if such lot lines do not
abut residential use or zoning. If adjacent to residential use or zoning, such
yards must meet the required building setback; and
         (b)   Shall be screened so as to mitigate the appearance and impact of
the proposed storage use and its level of activity, in a manner consistent with
the purposes of the district.
      (9)   Fire and police stations.
         (a)   Shall have adequate access to collector or arterial streets; and
         (b)   Design of the structure and the site shall be compatible with
the surrounding area.
      (10)   Golf, swim and tennis clubs.
         (a)   Facilities shall have adequate access to collector or arterial
streets and traffic shall not travel through residential neighborhood on local
streets; and
         (b)   Design and location of any structure and the design of the site
shall be such that adjacent properties shall not be subjected to offensive
noise, lights, odors, or flying objects.
      (11)   Convalescent, nursing or rest homes, auditoriums, and community
and recreational centers.
         (a)   Proposed facility shall be located on a site of minimum 15,000
square feet, or minimum lot size of the district, whichever is greater;
         (b)   Adequate access shall be provided to collector or arterial
streets and traffic shall not travel through residential neighborhoods on local
streets; and
         (c)   The design of structure and site, hours of operation, and
intensity of use, shall be compatible with the surrounding area.
      (12)   Cemeteries and mausoleums.
         (a)   Shall be located on a site not less than two acres in size;
         (b)   Access to site shall be such that traffic and funeral
processions to site will create a minimum of interference with normal traffic
operations in the area;
         (c)   The design of the site and any structures shall be compatible
with the surrounding area; and
         (d)   All structures shall be set back from any property line a
minimum of 35 feet and all graves and burial plots shall be set back a minimum
of 25 feet from any property line.
      (13)   Mortuaries and crematoriums.
         (a)   Site of the proposed facility shall be a minimum of 5,000 square
feet;
         (b)   Adequate access shall be provided to a street classified
collector or arterial and traffic shall not travel through residential
neighborhoods on local streets;
         (c)   Design of site and structure shall be compatible with
surrounding uses; and
         (d)   Access to proposed site shall be such that traffic and funeral
processions will create a minimum of interference with normal traffic
operations in the area.
      (14)   Accessory gasoline sales.
         (a)   The use shall be accessory to a grocery store having at least
1,500 square feet devoted to food sales. The use shall be limited to one
dispensing nozzle for each grade of gasoline offered;
         (b)   Adequate access shall be provided from a collector or arterial
street;
         (c)   Pump island shall not eliminate or interfere with required off-
street parking spaces or access thereto;
         (d)   Adequate stacking space shall be available at the pump island
and shall not interfere with traffic safety on the site or adjacent roadway;
and
         (e)   Design of site and structure shall be compatible with
surrounding area.
      (15)   Correctional facilities.
         (a)   Adequate access is provided to a collector or arterial street;
         (b)   Design of site and structure, and the intensity of use and
population density shall be compatible with surrounding area; and
         (c)   Site design and supervision characteristics shall ensure that
the peace and safety of the surrounding area shall not be impaired.
      (16)   Shared parking.
         (a)   No more than 50% of the parking spaces required for a building
or use may be supplied by parking facilities required for any other building or
use;
         (b)   Total parking provided shall be sufficient to meet the
requirements of the greatest combined peak parking demands. The Board may
require such evidence as it deems necessary to establish parking demands;
         (c)   The Board shall require the owners of the properties included in
the conditional use request to make a written commitment guaranteeing that the
parking spaces shall be maintained as stipulated in the approval so long as
parking is required for either of the properties or until the required parking
is provided elsewhere in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Such
instrument shall be recorded by the property owners with the County Recorder
and a copy filed with the Planning Department; and
         (d)   The commitment required above may be modified or terminated only
by order of the Board.
      (17)   Off-site parking.
         (a)   The off-site parking facility is within a reasonable walking
distance of said structure or use in consideration of the use;
         (b)   Such parking facility is located in a zoning district where such
parking facilities are allowed as a permitted or conditional use;
         (c)   The Board shall require the owners of the properties included in
the conditional use request to make a written commitment guaranteeing that the
parking spaces shall be maintained as stipulated in the approval so long as
parking is required for the property or until the required parking is provided
elsewhere in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and prohibiting
any other use of the lot which is used for off-site parking. Such instrument
shall be recorded by the property owners with the County Recorder and a copy
filed with the Planning Department; and
         (d)   The commitment required above may be modified or terminated only
by order of the Board.
      (18)   Drive-in theaters.
         (a)   The site must have direct access to an arterial road as
identified on the functional street classification map. In addition to the
required setbacks from the streets and highways, all yards shall be planted and
maintained as a landscaped strip;
         (b)   The theater viewing screen shall not be visible from any public
street within 1,500 feet of the screen. In addition, cars parked in the viewing
area shall be screened on all sides by a wall, fence or densely planted
evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height;
         (c)   Loading space for patrons waiting for admission to the theater
shall be equal to 20% of the capacity of the theater. All entrances and exits
shall be separated, and internal circulation shall be laid out to provide one-
way traffic;
         (d)   Sale or refreshments shall be limited to patrons of the theater.
Amusement parks or kiddylands shall be accessible only to patrons of the
theater;
         (e)   All parking areas and access ways shall be adequately lighted;
provided, however, that such lighting shall be shielded to prevent any glare or
reflection onto a public street or onto neighboring properties; and
         (f)   No central loudspeakers shall be permitted.
      (19)   Light manufacturing and distribution facilities.
         (a)   Architecture and site design shall be compatible with the
surroundings and with the purpose of the BP District;
         (b)   Truck parking, loading areas and outdoor mechanicals of any kind
shall be adequately screened in a manner compatible with the surroundings;
         (c)   The design of the access route to the facility must be suitable
for truck traffic; and
         (d)   Outdoor processes and/or storage are prohibited.
      (20)   Boat storage.
         (a)   The required building setbacks shall be applied to all boats
stored outside; and
         (b)   All boats stored outside of enclosed buildings shall be screened
from adjoining properties by a double staggered row of evergreen trees or a
six-foot high opaque fence or wall.
      (21)   Resorts.
         (a)   Design of the structure and site shall be compatible with the
surrounding area;
         (b)   Outdoor group activities shall not be allowed after 10:00 p.m.;
and
         (c)   Facilities shall have adequate access to collector or arterial
streets and traffic shall not travel through a residential neighborhood on
local streets.
      (22)   Rodeo and transient amusement enterprises.
         (a)   The site must have direct access to an arterial road as
identified on the functional street classification map. In addition to the
required setbacks from the streets and highways, all yards shall be planted and
maintained as a landscaped strip;
         (b)   Cars parked in the viewing area shall be screened on all sides
by a wall, fence or densely planted evergreen hedge not less than six feet in
height;
         (c)   Loading space for patrons waiting for admission to the theater
shall be equal to 20% of the capacity of the theater. All entrances and exits
shall be separated, and internal circulation shall be laid out to provide one-
way traffic;
         (d)   Sale of refreshments shall be limited to patrons of the theater.
Amusement parks or kiddy lands shall be accessible only to patrons of the
theater;
         (e)   All parking areas and access ways shall be adequately lighted;
provided, however, that such lighting shall be shielded to prevent any glare or
reflection onto a public street or onto neighboring properties; and
         (f)   No central loudspeakers shall be permitted.
   (B)   Effect of issuance of a conditional use permit. The grant of a
conditional use authorizes the use and establishes the terms of use.
Conditional uses are also subject to site plan requirements, all necessary
permits and approvals, and other applicable requirements. All required permits
must be obtained before any grading, construction or use commences.
   (C)   Expiration of conditional use permit. Any conditional use permit
granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall expire:
      (1)   In the case of a new construction or modifications to an existing
structure:
         (a)   Two years after the date granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals,
unless a building permit has been obtained and construction of the structure or
structures has commences; and
         (b)   At the date of termination established by the Board of Zoning
Appeals as a condition or commitment if different from subsection (a) above.
      (2)   In the case of occupancy of land which does not involve new
construction:
         (a)   Two years after the date granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals,
unless an occupancy permit has been obtained and the use has commenced; or
         (b)   At the date of termination established by the Board of Zoning
Appeals as a condition or commitment if different from subsection (a) above.
      (3)   If an appeal by writ or certiorari is taken from an order granting
a conditional use, the time during which such appeal is pending shall not be
counted in determining whether a conditional use or order has expired under
subsections (1) or (2) above.
   (D)   Extensions. The Board of Zoning Appeals may provide by rule for the
granting of extensions of conditional uses.
   (E)   Amendments to conditional use permits. Any modification or
intensification of a conditional use that alters the essential character or
operation of the use in a way not intended by the Board of Zoning Appeals at
the time the conditional use was granted shall require a new conditional use
permit. The property owner, use operator, or his or her authorized
representative shall apply for such conditional use permit prior to any
modification of the use or property. The Director shall determine in writing
whether the proposed modification or intensification represents an alteration
in the essential character of the original conditional use as approved. The
operator of the conditional use shall provide the Director with all the
necessary information to render this determination. The Hearing Officer may
hear requests for amendments to a conditional use, if authorized by the Plan
Commission. No use classified as conditional may be conducted without first
obtaining a conditional use permit under this chapter, and no such use shall be
conducted except in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter
and with any conditions upon such permit.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2004-19, passed 7-
14-2004) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.183 CONDITIONAL USE APPROVAL FOR PRE-EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES.
   The Board may grant conditional use status to a pre-existing nonconforming
use in accordance with the following procedures and standards:
   (A)   An applicant for conditional use approval shall file an application
for site plan review in accordance with these regulations. The application
shall be considered in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
subchapter.
   (B)   To be eligible for conditional use approval, the applicant must
demonstrate and agree to continued compliance with the following standards:
      (1)   The proposed conditional use is a pre-existing and nonconforming
use (or building or structure);
      (2)   The general performance standards set forth in these regulations;
and
      (3)   The use (or building or structure) will not be expanded, enlarged
or changed.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.184 CONDITIONAL USES IN PERMITTED LAND USE TABLE.
   The permitted land use table which can be found in the Clerk’s office sets
forth the zones or districts in which specific conditional uses are permitted
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
VARIANCES
§ 155.195 REGULATIONS FOR USE AND DESIGN STANDARDS VARIANCES.
   The regulations set forth or identified in this subchapter are provided to
establish procedures, criteria and conditions which shall be met before the
Board of Zoning Appeals may approve a use or design standards variance from the
terms of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.196 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   A person desiring a variance from the terms of this subchapter shall
submit a written application for variance approval with the Director.
   (B)   An application for variance approval shall:
      (1)   Be made on the forms available at the Planning Department office
and signed by the owner of the property subject to the variance request
(“subject property”) or by a person who has been authorized to sign the form by
the owner. If the form is signed by a person other than the owner, the person
must submit written documentation of his or her authority to sign the form
(such as, a letter from the owner which states that the person has been
authorized to sign the form);
      (2)   Describe the specific use or standard for which the variance is
sought;
      (3)   Be presented to the Director;
      (4)   Be accompanied by two copies of an area map which shows the
location of the subject property, the locations of related public and utility
facilities (such as, schools, sewer and the like), and the relationship of the
subject property to the thoroughfare plans for the area;
      (5)   Be accompanied by two copies of a site plan, drawn to an
appropriate scale, which shows:
         (a)   The subject property;
         (b)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and improvements to be made to the subject property, including drainage and
erosion control facilities and features;
         (c)   Accurate dimensions of the parcel, buildings, parking areas and
ingress/egress driveways;
         (d)   Location, owner of record, zoning and use of adjacent
properties, including the location, size and use of all structures within 50
feet of the subject property;
         (e)   Location, right-of-way and pavement width of all streets
adjacent to the subject property; and
         (f)   Proposed connections to public utilities.
      (6)   Be accompanied by any other information reasonably required by the
Director; and
      (7)   Be accompanied by the fee established by the Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.197 VARIANCE APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   Applications for variance approval shall be considered in accordance with
the following procedures.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receiving a complete application, the Director
shall schedule and announce the date and time of the Board of Zoning Appeal’s
hearing on the application. At the time the hearing is scheduled, the Director
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the hearing date and time.
   (B)   Prior to the Board of Zoning Appeals hearing on the application, the
Director shall review the application for compliance with this chapter.
Following such review and prior to the hearing, the Director shall prepare and
provide the Board of Zoning Appeals and the applicant with the Director’s
written comments and recommendation on the application, including the
Director’s opinion as to any effect which the proposed variance might have upon
the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, and its representatives, at its
discretion, may visit the subject property at any reasonable time during the
review process.
   (D)   Notice of the Board of Zoning Appeals hearing on the application for
variance approval shall be published by the applicant in two local newspapers
of general circulation at least ten days prior to the hearing, in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1. The applicant shall pay all fees and costs associated
herewith.
   (E)   At least ten days prior to the Board of Zoning Appeals hearing on the
application for variance approval, the Planning Director, in the manner
prescribed in the Board of Zoning Appeals rules of procedure, shall notify all
interested parties of the public hearing by certified mail. The applicant shall
pay all fees and costs associated herewith.
   (F)   At least ten days prior to the Board of Zoning Appeals hearing on the
application for variance approval, the Planning Director shall post and
maintain a sign on the subject property notifying those passing the property
that a request for variance approval for the property has been made. The sign
shall be provided to the applicant by the Director. The cost of the sign shall
be borne by the applicant.
   (G)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall conduct a public hearing on the
application for variance approval in accordance with the Board of Zoning
Appeals rules of procedure.
   (H)   Following the Board of Zoning Appeals hearing on the application for
variance approval, the Board shall take action on the applicant’s application.
The Board may approve the application, approve the application with conditions
or deny the application.
   (I)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make written findings of fact in
support of its decision. The Director shall promptly provide the applicant with
a copy of the Board’s written findings.
   (J)   If the Board of Zoning Appeals approves the application for variance
approval, the Director may issue the applicant and improvement location permit
and/or land use certificate subject to the conditions of variance approval and
the provisions of the ordinance.
   (K)   If the Board of Zoning Appeals denies the application for variance
approval, the applicant may file an amended application. If the amended
application is filed within six months of the Board’s denial of the original
application, the applicant shall not be charged an application fee.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2006-6, passed 3-
6-2006)
§ 155.198 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT.
   With respect to use variances, the Board shall have the authority to require
an applicant to perform an environmental impact study appropriate to the
situation in which the use is proposed and to submit the results of the study
to the Board.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.199 STANDARDS FOR USE VARIANCE APPROVAL.
   In order to approve a use variance, the Board must find that:
   (A)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
   (B)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in the
variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
   (C)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to the
property involved;
   (D)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute an
unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the variance is
sought; and
   (E)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the Comprehensive
Plan.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.200 STANDARDS FOR DESIGN VARIANCE APPROVAL.
   In order to approve an application for a design standards variance, the
Board must find that:
   (A)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
   (B)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in the
variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
   (C)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
practical difficulties in the use of the property.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.201 CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
   All variance approvals shall be considered to be conditional approvals. The
Board shall have the authority to impose specific conditions as part of its
approval in order to protect the public health, and for reasons of safety,
comfort and convenience (such as, to ensure compatibility with surroundings). A
variance approval may be denied or revoked where the applicant fails to comply
with specific conditions made a part of the approval by the Board, or fails to
comply with a reasonable request of the Board or the Director for furnishing
specific information related to the proposed variance. Failure to comply with
the conditions of approval shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.202 RELATIONSHIP TO SUBJECT PROPERTY.
   Variance approval applies to the subject property and may be transferred
with ownership of the subject property subject to the provisions and conditions
prescribed by or made pursuant to this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
PRE-EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES
§ 155.215 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND AND/OR STRUCTURES.
   The uses of land and/or structures that were both in existence and in
compliance with all land use and other laws on the date of passage of these
regulations, and, further, that do not conform to the use regulations set forth
in this chapter, shall be deemed to be legal, preexisting nonconforming uses
that may be continued subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No legal, pre-existing nonconforming use of land and/or structure may
be enlarged, moved or otherwise changed, except that such use may be changed to
permitted use, unless a variance from the terms of the ordinance is obtained
from the Board.
   (B)   A legal, pre-existing nonconforming use may be extended throughout any
parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use but
shall not be expanded to occupy any parts of such building that were not so
arranged or designed or any land outside such building.
   (C)   Any land, structure, or land and structure in combination, on or in
which a legal, preexisting nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use,
may thereafter only be put to a permitted use and the nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
   (D)   When a legal, pre-existing nonconforming use of land, structure, or
land and structure in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six
consecutive months, the land, structure, or land and structure in combination,
may thereafter only be put to a permitted use and the nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
   (E)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
   (F)   Normal maintenance and repair of a building or structure containing a
nonconforming use may be performed, provided there is no physical change to the
building or structure (such as, design, size, location and the like) and such
maintenance or repair does not extend or intensify the nonconforming use,
unless otherwise authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   Any legal, pre-existing nonconforming use shall continue or unless
modified or terminated as herein provided. Such use may be sold, inherited, or
otherwise transferred, provided the use, land and structure (if any) remain the
same.
   (H)   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
nonconforming use as a result of an amendment to this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.216 NONCONFORMING PARCELS AND/OR STRUCTURES.
   Parcels or structures that were both in existence and in compliance with all
land use and other laws on the date of passage of this chapter, and, further,
that do not conform to the height, bulk, area and density regulations set forth
in this chapter, shall be deemed to be legal, preexisting nonconforming parcels
or structures that may be occupies or used subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   The use is a permitted use or a legal, pre-existing nonconforming use.
   (B)   The legal, pre-existing nonconforming parcel may not be further
developed until compliance with the ordinance is demonstrated or until a
variance from the terms of the ordinance is obtained from the Board.
   (C)   Except as permitted below, the legal, pre-existing nonconforming
structure may not be expanded, enlarged or otherwise altered until compliance
with the ordinance is demonstrated or until a variance from the terms of the
ordinance is obtained from the Board.
   (D)   Any legal, pre-existing nonconforming structure damaged by fire,
flood, explosion or other casualty may be reconstructed and used as before, if
such reconstruction is undertaken within 18 months of such casualty, and if the
restored structure has no greater coverage and contains no greater content
(measured in cubic feet) than before such casualty.
   (E)   Normal maintenance and repair of a legal, pre-existing nonconforming
structure may be performed, provided there is no significant physical change to
the structure (such as, design, size, location and the like) and such
maintenance and repair does not extend, enlarge or intensify the nonconforming
structure or the use of the nonconforming structure, unless otherwise
authorized by this chapter.
   (F)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the design or
construction of a structure for which a building permit has been issued prior
to the date of passage of this chapter and on which construction will begin
within 60 days after the date of the permit and on which construction is
diligently prosecuted to completion within one year after the date of the
permit.
   (G)   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
nonconforming use as a result of an amendment to this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.217 BURDEN OF ESTABLISHING STATUS.
   (A)   The burden of establishing legal, pre-existing nonconforming use
status rests on: the property owner or party seeking to continue the
nonconforming use or occupancy; any person applying for an improvement location
permit or land use certificate; or any other person asserting such status.
   (B)   Such persons shall provide sufficient proof in a form acceptable to
the Director of the following:
      (1)   The date of construction of the building or structure or the date
the use was established;
      (2)   The continuous operation of the nonconforming use; and
      (3)   Such other proof that may be deemed necessary by the Director.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 155.230 GENERAL POWERS OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Commissioners may:
   (A)   Hear and determine petitions for the vacation of public ways or places
in accordance with the procedures and limitations set forth and incorporated in
I.C. 36-7-3;
   (B)   Adopt, amend and repeal the Comprehensive Plan in accordance with the
procedures and limitations set forth and incorporated in the 500 series of I.C.
36-7-4;
   (C)   Adopt, amend and repeal the Zoning Ordinance (text or maps) in
accordance with the procedures and limitations set forth and incorporated in
the 600 series of I.C. 36-7-4;
   (D)   Determine the zoning districts in which the subdivision of land may
occur and adopt, amend and repeal an ordinance containing provisions for
subdivision control in accordance with the procedures and limitations set forth
and incorporated in the 700 series of I.C. 36-7-4;
   (E)   Determine whether to allow planned unit developments;
   (F)   Establish an advisory plan commission in accordance with the
procedures and limitations set forth and incorporated in the 200, 300, and 400
series of I.C. 36-7-4 and remove and replace the citizen members of the
Advisory Plan Commission;
   (G)   Establish an advisory board of zoning appeals in accordance with the
procedures and limitations set forth and incorporated in the 900 series of I.C.
36-7-4 and appoint, remove and replace the citizen members of the Advisory Plan
Commission;
   (H)   Adopt an ordinance imposing an impact fee on new development within
the county jurisdictional area in accordance with the procedures and
limitations set forth and incorporated in the 1300 series of I.C. 36-7-4;
   (I)   Establish a joint district planning and zoning commission in
accordance with the procedures and limitations set forth and incorporated in
I.C. 36-7-5.1; and
   (J)   Exercise all powers of Board of Commissioners with respect to
planning, zoning and land use conferred by or reasonably inferred from all laws
relating to planning, zoning and land use.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.231 GENERAL DUTY OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall give consideration to the general policy
and pattern of development set out in the Comprehensive Plan in the:
   (A)   Authorization, acceptance, or construction of water mains, sewers,
connections, facilities, or utilities;
   (B)   Authorization, construction, alteration, or abandonment of public
ways, public places, public lands, public structures, or public utilities; and
   (C)   Adoption, amendment, or repeal of zoning ordinances (including zone
maps), subdivision control ordinances, historic preservation ordinances and
other land use ordinances.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION
§ 155.245 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Advisory Plan Commission is hereby established in accordance with
the advisory planning law set forth in I.C. 36-7-4.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.246 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of nine members as follows:
   (A)   One member appointed by the Board of Commissioners from its
membership;
   (B)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership;
   (C)   The County Surveyor or a qualified deputy appointed by the County
Surveyor;
   (D)   The County Agricultural Extension Educator; and
   (E)   Five citizen members, of whom no more than three may be of the same
political party, appointed by the Board of Commissioners. Each appointing
authority may appoint an alternate member to act during the absence or
disability of a regular appointee of the authority.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.247 QUALIFICATIONS OF CITIZEN MEMBERS.
   Each citizen member shall be appointed because of: the member’s knowledge
and experience in community affairs; the member’s awareness of the social,
economic, agricultural, and industrial problems of the area; and the member’s
interest in the development and integration of the area. A citizen member may
not hold other elective or appointive office in municipal, county or state
government. A citizen member must be a resident of the county jurisdictional
area.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.248 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Plan Commission was established by Ordinance 2001-12, passed on
April 30, 2001, and said ordinance provided that citizen members be appointed
for the following terms: one member for a term of one year; one member for a
term of two years; one member for a term of three years; and two members for a
term of four years. Citizen members were appointed to the foregoing terms. All
subsequent citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years which
term expires on the first Monday of January of the fourth year after the
citizen member’s appointment.
   (B)   The term of office of a member appointed from the membership of the
Board of Commissioners or from the membership of the County Council shall be
coextensive with the appointee’s membership on the appointing authority, unless
the appointing authority appoints, at its first regular meeting of any year,
another to serve as its representative.
   (C)   The term of office of an appointee of the County Surveyor shall be for
one year but may not exceed the appointing County Surveyor’s term of elected
office or the appointee’s term of employment as a Deputy County Surveyor.
   (D)   A member serves until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
A member may be reappointed.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.249 REMOVAL OF MEMBER.
   The appointing authority may remove a member from the Plan Commission for
cause. The appointing authority must mail notice of the removal along with
written reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her residence address.
A member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving notice of the
removal, appeal the removal to the Circuit Court. The Circuit Court may,
pending the outcome of the appeal, order the removal or stay the removal of the
member.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.250 VACATED MEMBERSHIP.
   If a vacancy occurs among the Plan Commission members who are appointed,
then the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of
the vacating member. If a vacancy occurs in the office of the County Surveyor,
then the County Engineer shall be a member of the Plan Commission during the
time the office of the County Surveyor is vacant.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.251 EXPENSES.
   If the Plan Commission determines that it is necessary or desirable for
members or employees to join a professional organization or to attend a
conference or interview dealing with planning or related problems, the Plan
Commission may pay the applicable membership fees and all actual expenses of
the members or employees, subject to County Council appropriation of funds.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.252 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A Plan Commission member may not participate as a Plan Commission member in
a hearing or decision of the Plan Commission concerning a zoning matter in
which the member has a direct or indirect financial interest. The Plan
Commission shall enter in its records the fact that its member has such a
disqualification and the name of the alternate member, if any, that
participates in the hearing or decision in place of the regular member. A Plan
Commission member directly or personally represents another person in a hearing
before the Plan Commission or Board of Commissioners concerning a zoning
matter. A Plan Commission member may not receive mileage or compensation under
§
155.251 of this subchapter for attendance at a meeting at which the member is
disqualified from participation, during any part of the meeting, for having a
direct or indirect financial interest in a zoning matter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.253 OFFICIAL ACTION.
   An action of the Plan Commission is not official unless it is authorized, at
a regular or special meeting, by a majority of the entire Plan Commission
membership or by a majority of the Executive Committee pursuant to this
subchapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.254 PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Plan Commission shall elect
from its membership a President and a Vice President. The Vice President may
act as President of the Plan Commission during the absence or disability of the
President.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.255 SECRETARY.
   The Plan Commission may appoint and fix the duties of a secretary, who is
not required to be a member of the Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.256 MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall fix the time for holding regular meetings
each month or as necessary. Special meetings of the Plan Commission may be
called by the President or by two members of the Plan Commission upon written
request to the secretary. The secretary shall send to all members, at least
three days before the special meeting, a written notice fixing the time and
place of the meeting. Written notice of a special meeting is not required if:
      (1)   The date, time and place of a special meeting are fixed in a
regular meeting; and
      (2)   All members of the Plan Commission are present at that regular
meeting. All regular and special meetings of the Plan Commission shall be open
to the public. The Plan Commission may schedule executive session meetings
pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings; keep
records of its examinations and other official actions; prepare written
findings of fact in support of each of its decisions; and record the vote,
disqualification, abstention, or failure to vote of each member upon each
question. All Plan Commission minutes and records shall be filed in the office
of the Plan Commission and shall be public records to the extend required by
I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.257 STAFF AND SERVICES.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall prescribe the qualifications of, appoint,
remove, and fix the compensation of the employees of the Plan Commission, which
compensation must conform to the salaries and compensations fixed before that
time by the County Council. The Plan Commission shall delegate authority to its
employees to perform ministerial acts in all cases except where final action of
the Commission is necessary.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may contract for special or temporary services and
any professional counsel.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may designate a hearing examiner or a committee of
the Plan Commission to conduct any public hearing required to be held by the
Plan Commission. Such a hearing must be held upon the same notice and under the
same rules as a hearing before the entire Plan Commission, and the examiner or
committee shall report findings of fact and recommendations for decision to the
Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall, by rule, provide reasonable
opportunity for interested persons to file exceptions to the findings and
recommendations, and if any exception is filed in accordance with those rules,
the Plan Commission shall render its decision without further hearing.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.258 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall:
   (A)   Supervise, and make rules for, the administration of the affairs of
the Plan Commission;
   (B)   Prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and hearings;
   (C)   Record and file all bonds and contracts and assume responsibility for
the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the Plan
Commission;
   (D)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports, ordinances and other
material relating to the activities authorized under this chapter;
   (E)   Adopt a seal;
   (F)   Certify to all official acts;
   (G)   Supervise the fiscal affairs of the Plan Commission;
   (H)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as other county
departments and be limited in all expenditures to the provisions made for the
expenditures by the County Council;
   (I)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name “Owen County Plan
Commission” with service of process on the President of the Plan Commission;
   (J)   Make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners concerning:
      (1)   The adoption of the Comprehensive Plan, ordinance and amendments;
and
      (2)   Any other matter, within the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission,
authorized by the advisory planning law;
   (K)   Render decisions concerning and approve:
      (1)   Plats or replats of subdivisions;
      (2)   Development plans for residential, commercial and industrial uses;
and
      (3)   Variances to subdivision standards;
   (L)   Assign street numbers to lots and structures and renumber lots and
structures, and notify the Circuit Court Clerk or Board of Registration, the
administrator of the county’s enhanced emergency telephone system, and the
United States postal service of said numbering or renumbering no later than the
last day of the month following the month in which the action is taken;
   (M)   Name and rename streets, in accordance with the guidelines and notify
the Circuit Court Clerk or Board off Registration, the administrator of the
county’s enhanced emergency telephone system, and the United States postal
service of said naming or renaming no later than the last day of the month
following the month in which the action is taken; and
   (N)   Establish a schedule of reasonable fees to defray the administrative
costs connected with: processing and hearing administrative appeals and
petitions for rezoning, special exceptions, conditional uses, temporary uses
and variances; issuing permits; and other actions taken under this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.259 CITIZEN COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Plan Commission, by resolution, may establish advisory committees
of citizens interested in problems of planning and zoning. In its resolution
establishing such a committee, the Plan Commission shall specify the terms of
its members, its purpose, and whether the committee is of perpetual or limited
duration.
   (B)   Each advisory committee shall:
      (1)   Study the subject and problems specified by the Plan Commission and
recommend to the Commission additional problems in need of study;
      (2)   Advise the Plan Commission concerning how the subject and problems
relate particularly to different areas and groups in the community; and
      (3)   If invited by the Plan Commission to do so, sit with and
participate, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Commission,
when subjects of mutual concern are discussed.
   (C)   A citizen committee shall report only to the Plan Commission and shall
make inquiries and reports only on the subject and problems specified by the
Plan Commission’s resolution establishing the committee.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.260 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Plan Commission may establish an executive committee of not less
than three nor more than nine persons appointed by the Plan Commission from its
membership. The establishment of the executive committee, the naming of its
individual members and the adoption of rules governing its operation requires a
two-thirds majority vote of the entire membership of the Plan Commission.
   (B)   A majority of the executive committee may act in the name of the Plan
Commission; but if there are any dissenting votes, a person voting in the
minority may appeal the decision of the executive committee to the Plan
Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.261 GIFTS AND GRANTS.
   The Plan Commission may accept gifts, donations and grants from private or
governmental sources for advisory planning purposes. Any money so accepted
shall be deposited with the County Treasurer, in a special non-reverting Plan
Commission fund to be available for expenditures by the Plan Commission for the
purposes designated by the source. The County Auditor shall draw warrants
against the special non-reverting fund only on vouchers signed by the President
and secretary of the Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.262 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Plan Commission may appoint a hearing officer and may establish an
alternate procedure under which the hearing officer may approve or deny
variances from the design standards of this chapter, special uses, conditional
uses, and special exceptions from the terms of this chapter. With respect to
such matters, the hearing officer shall have the power of the Board of Zoning
Appeals. The hearing officer may be a Board of Zoning Appeals member, a Plan
Commission staff member or any other person. The Plan Commission may appoint
more than one hearing officer. A hearing officer serves at the pleasure of the
Plan Commission and may be removed by the Plan Commission at any time, without
cause.
   (B)   With respect to an alternate procedure, the Plan Commission may adopt
rules:
      (1)   Limiting the kinds of variance, special use, contingent use,
conditional use or special exception petitions that may be filed under the
alternate procedure;
      (2)   Permitting the hearing officer, in appropriate circumstances, to
transfer a petition filed under the alternate procedure to the Board of Zoning
Appeals;
      (3)   Requiring the creation of minutes and records of the proceedings
before the hearing officer and the filing of the minutes and records as public
records; and
      (4)   Regulating conflicts of interest and communications with the
hearing officer, so as to require the same level of conduct required of the
Board of Zoning Appeals in the conduct of its business.
   (C)   The Plan Commission staff may file a written objection to a petition
for a variance, exception, or use if:
      (1)   It would be injurious to the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the community; or
      (2)   The use or value of the area adjacent to the property included
would be affected in a substantially adverse manner.
   (D)   If a written objection is filed by the Plan Commission staff, the
petition shall:
      (1)   Be considered withdrawn; or
      (2)   Be transferred to the Board of Zoning Appeals if requested by the
petitioner.
   (E)   The Plan Commission staff may indicate that it does not object to the
approval of the petition if specified conditions are attached. If the applicant
does not accept these conditions, the petition shall:
      (1)   Be considered withdrawn; or
      (2)   Be transferred to the Board of Zoning Appeals if requested by the
petitioner.
   (F)   The hearing officer may impose conditions and may permit or require
the owner of a parcel of property to make a written commitment concerning the
use or development of that parcel, in the same manner that the Board of Zoning
Appeals may impose conditions or require written commitments. If the applicant
for the variance, exception, or use does not accept these conditions or make
the commitment, the petition shall:
      (1)   Be considered withdrawn; or
      (2)   Be transferred to the Board of Zoning Appeals if requested by the
petitioner.
   (G)   The hearing officer may not modify or terminate any commitment made to
the hearing officer or to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (H)   A decision of a hearing officer under the alternate procedure may not
be a basis for judicial review, but it may be appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals. An interested person who wishes to appeal a decision of a hearing
officer under the alternate procedure must file the appeal with the Board of
Zoning Appeals within 14 days after the decision is made.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.263 REVIEW OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Plan Commission shall periodically review both the text of the this
chapter and the zoning maps. Such review shall be performed on a regular
schedule established by the Plan Commission, but no less frequently than once
every two years. Upon review of the text and maps, the Plan Commission shall
recommend all appropriate changes to the County Commissioners as proposed
amendments to this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.264 PLAT COMMITTEE.
   The Plan Commission may appoint a plat committee to hold hearings on and
approve plats and replats, on behalf of the Plan Commission, under the
circumstances prescribed in §§
155.080 through
155.123 of this chapter. The plat committee consists of three or five persons,
with at least one of the members being a member of the Plan Commission who may
remove a member from the plat committee. The Plan Commission must mail notice
of the removal, along with written reasons, if any, for the removal, to the
member at his or her residence address. A member who is removed may not appeal
the removal to a court or otherwise. The plat committee may take action only by
a majority vote.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.265 NAMING AND RENAMING STREETS.
   In naming and renaming streets, the Plan Commission shall be guided by the
following policies:
   (A)   Duplicate street names and names that sound alike shall not be
allowed;
   (B)   Directional or relative names should not be used (such as, North
Drive, Kirksville Road);
   (C)   A continuous street should not change names when the direction of the
street changes;
   (D)   Predominately north-south streets shall have a “N” prefix if north of
the center line and an “S” prefix is south of the center line;
   (E)   Predominately east-west streets shall have an “E” prefix if east of
the center line and a “E” prefix if west of the center line;
   (F)   The County Postmaster must be given the opportunity to review and
comment on proposed names before their adoption; and
   (G)   The County Highway Engineer and the County Highway Superintendent must
be given the opportunity to review and comment on proposed names before their
adoption.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
ADVISORY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 155.280 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established in
accordance with the Advisory Planning law set forth in I.C. 36-7-4.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.281 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board shall consist of five citizen members as follows:
   (A)   Three citizen members appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
One of the Board of Commissioners’ appointees must be a member of the Plan
Commission. The two other appointees may not be members of the Plan Commission;
   (B)   One citizen member appointed by the County Council. The County Council
appointee may not be a member of the Plan Commission; and
   (C)   One citizen member appointed by the Plan Commission. The Plan
Commission appointee must be a member of the Plan Commission other than the
member appointed by the County Commissioners.
Each appointing authority may appoint an alternate citizen member to act during
the absence or disability of a regular appointee of the authority.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.282 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Board may not hold other elective or appointive offices
in municipal, county, or state government, except as permitted by §
155.281 of this subchapter. A member must be a resident of the county planning
jurisdictional area.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.283 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board was established by Ordinance _____, passed on _____, and
said ordinance provided that members be appointed for the following terms: one
member for a term of one-year; one member for a term of two years; one member
for a term of three years; and two members for a term of four years. Board
members were appointed to the foregoing terms. All subsequent members shall be
appointed for a term of four years which term expires on the first Monday of
January of the fourth year after the member’s appointment.
   (B)   A member may serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. A member may be reappointed.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.284 REMOVAL OF MEMBER.
   The appointing authority may remove a member from the Board for cause. The
appointing authority must mail notice of the removal, along with written
reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her residence address. A
member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving notice of the
removal, appeal the removal to the Circuit Court.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.285 VACATED MEMBERSHIP.
   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Board, the appointing authority
shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.286 EXPENSES.
   If the Board determines that it is necessary or desirable for members to
join a professional organization or to attend a conference or interview dealing
with planning or related problems, the Board may pay the applicable membership
fees and all actual expenses of the members, subject to County Council
appropriation of funds.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.287 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A member of the Board may not participate in a hearing or decision of the
Board concerning a zoning matter in which he or she has a direct or indirect
financial interest. The Board shall enter in its records the fact that a
regular member has such a disqualification and the name of the alternate
member, if any, who participates in the hearing or decision in place of the
regular member.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.288 OFFICIAL ACTION.
   An action of the Board is not official unless it is authorized by a majority
of the entire membership of the Board.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.289 PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT.
   At the first Board meeting of each year, the Board shall elect a President
and Vice President from its members. The Vice President shall act as President
during the absence or disability of the President.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.290 SECRETARY.
   The Board may appoint a secretary and such employees as are necessary for
the discharge of its duties, subject to County Council appropriation.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.291 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board shall adopt rules concerning the filing of appeals, applications
for variances, conditional uses and special exceptions, the giving of notice,
the conduct of hearings, and other subjects or matters as required by state law
or as deemed necessary or desirable by the Board.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.292 MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, prepare written findings of fact and record the vote,
disqualification, abstention, or failure to vote of each member upon each
question. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office of the Board and
shall be public records to the extent required by I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.293 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   All decisions of the Board on all matters within its jurisdiction and
authority shall be committed to writing and shall be supported by written
specific findings of fact on each material element pertaining to the matter
under consideration.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.294 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board:
   (A)   Shall hear and determine appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Plan Director, a staff
member or administrative officer, board or committee designated by this
chapter, other than the Plan Commission, made in the enforcement of this
chapter or the issuance of permits required by this chapter;
   (B)   May reverse or affirm, wholly or partially, or may modify any order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from as in its opinion ought to
be done in the premises and to that end shall have all the powers vested in the
person or board from whom the appeal is taken. Reversal or modification must
rest upon a finding by the Board that the initial order, requirement, decision
or determination was improper as a matter or law or fact;
   (C)   Shall hear, and approve or deny, special exceptions to this chapter
but only in the classes of cases and in accordance with the criteria specified
in this chapter. The Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its
approval;
   (D)   Shall approve or deny variances of use from the terms of this chapter.
The Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its approval; and
   (E)   Shall approve or deny variances from the development standards (such
as, height, bulk, area and density) of this chapter but not from said standards
as they may apply to subdivisions.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.295 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An appeal filed with the Board must specify the grounds of the appeal
and must be filed within such time and in such form as may be prescribed by the
Board by rule.
   (B)   The administrative official, hearing officer, administrative board, or
other body from whom the appeal is taken shall, on the request of the Board,
transmit to the Board all documents, plans, and papers (or certified copies of
the same) constituting the record of the action from which an appeal was taken.
   (C)   When an appeal from the decision of an official or board has been
filed with the Board, proceedings and work on the premises affected shall be
stayed unless the official or board certifies to the Board that, by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life
or property. In that case, proceedings or work may not be stayed except by
court order.
   (D)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
administrative appeals, exception, uses and variances.
   (E)   Public notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 -2 and 5-3-1 -4 and due
notice to interested parties shall be given at least ten days before the date
set for the hearing.
   (F)   The party taking the appeal, or applying for the exception, use, or
variance, may be required to assume the cost of public notice and due notice to
interested parties. At the hearing, each party may appear in person, by agent,
or by attorney.
   (G)   The Board shall, by rule, determine who are interested parties, how
notice is to be given to them, and who is required to give that notice.
   (H)   The Board staff and other persons may appear before the Board at the
hearing and present evidence in support of or in opposition to the granting of
a variance or the determination of any other matter.
   (I)   A person may not communicate with any member of the Board before the
hearing with intent to influence the member’s action on a matter pending before
the Board. Not less than five days before the hearing, however, the staff may
file with the Board a written statement setting forth any facts or opinions
relating to the matter.
   (J)   The Board may require any party adverse to any pending petition to
enter a written appearance specifying the party’s name and address. If the
written appearance is entered more than four days before the hearing, the Board
may also require the petitioner to furnish each adverse party with a copy of
the petition and a plot plan of the property involved.
   (K)   Upon appeal, the Board may reverse, affirm, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from. For this purpose, the
Board has all the powers of the official, officer, board or body from which the
appeal is taken.
   (L)   The Board shall make its decision on any matter before it at the
meeting at which the matter is first presented or at the conclusion of the
hearing on the matter if the hearing is continued. Within five days after
making any decision, the Board shall file in the office of the Board a copy of
its decision.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.296 COMMITMENTS.
   (A)   In the case of a petition for a variance, conditional use or special
exception from the terms of this chapter, the Board may permit or require the
owner of the affected parcel to make a written commitment concerning the use or
development of the affected parcel.
   (B)   The Board may adopt rules governing the creation, form, recording,
modification, enforcement, and termination of commitments; and designating
which specially affected persons and classes of specially affected persons are
entitled to enforce commitments.
   (C)   Commitments shall be recorded in the County Recorder’s office and
shall take effect upon the granting of the exception, use or variance. Unless
modified or terminated by the Board, a commitment is binding on the owner of
the parcel, each subsequent owner and each other person acquiring an interest
in the parcel. A commitment is binding on the owner of the parcel even if it is
unrecorded; however, an unrecorded commitment is binding on a subsequent owner
or other person acquiring an interest in the parcel only if that subsequent
owner or other person had actual notice of the commitment. A commitment may be
modified or terminated only by the Board at a public hearing after notice as
provided by rule.
   (D)   By permitting or requiring commitments, the Board does not become
obligated to approve or deny any request.
   (E)   Conditions imposed on the granting of an exception, use or variance
are not subject to the rules applicable to commitments.
   (F)   The rules applicable to commitments do not affect the validity of any
covenant, easement, equitable servitude or other land use restriction created
in accordance with law.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.297 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Each decision of the Board on a matter specified in §
155.295 of this subchapter is subject to review by certiorari.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
APPEALS
§ 155.310 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and determine appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative official, hearing officer, or staff member under this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall also hear and determine appeals from and review any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative board
or other body, except the Plan Commission, in relation to the enforcement of
this chapter or to the enforcement of any other titles of the county code
requiring procurement of a building permit or occupancy permit.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.311 INITIATION.
   An appeal may be filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals by any person
aggrieved by the order, requirement, decision or determination described in §
155.310 of this subchapter. An appeal filed with the Board must specify the
grounds of the appeal and must be filed in the form and within the time limit
established by rule of the Board, except that a decision of a hearing officer
must be appealed within 14 days after the decision is made.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.312 PROCESSING.
   An appeal shall be filed with the planning staff, who shall forward such
appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals for processing in accordance with this
chapter and applicable state statutes.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.313 PUBLIC HEARING.
   A public hearing shall be conducted by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
conformance with I.C. 53-1-2 and 5-3-1-4 and the County Board of Zoning Appeals
rules of procedure. The party making the appeal shall be required to assume the
cost of public notice and due notice to interested parties.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.314 DECISIONS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear testimony and evidence concerning
appeals, and prepare findings of fact and shall render a final decision on all
appeals. A written copy of such decision, as described in the rules of
procedure, shall be available in the Planning Department within five days after
making such decision.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.315 ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   The administrative official, hearing officer, administrative board, or
other body from whom the appeal is taken shall, on the request of the Board,
transmit to the Board certified copies of all documents, plans, and papers
constituting the record of the action from which an appeal was taken.
   (B)   When an appeal from the decision of an official or board has been
filed with the Board, proceedings and work on the premises affected shall be
stayed unless the official or board certifies to the Board that, by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life
or property. In that case, proceedings or work may not be stayed except by
court order.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
PLANNING DEPARTMENT
§ 155.330 PURPOSE OF THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   The purpose of the County Planning Department is to administer and enforce
this chapter. The Department may consist of the County Planning Director, the
county planners, the county zoning inspectors and any other employees deemed
necessary by the Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.331 DUTIES OF PLANNING DIRECTOR.
   On behalf of the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Zoning Appeals and the
Plan Commission, the Planning Director shall:
   (A)   Perform the administrative duties of the department head of the Plan
Department, including the supervision of Planning Department personnel and the
preparation of Planning Department budgets;
   (B)   Assist the Plan Commission in the preparation and amendment of the
Comprehensive Plan by compiling data on land use and development in the county,
researching planning theories and techniques, conducting forums on local
planning issues, and rendering written recommendations to the Plan Commission;
   (C)   Administer and enforce this chapter, including the issuance of
permits, certificates, notices and orders;
   (D)   Keep and maintain careful and comprehensive records of applications
and petitions filed, of permits and certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports and recommendations rendered and of notices and orders issued;
   (E)   Prepare, keep and maintain the official minutes of all meetings,
hearings and proceedings of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Plan Commission,
and the Plan Commission committees and hearing officers;
   (F)   Make all records kept by the Planning Department available for public
inspection, at reasonable hours, subject to any limitation imposed in
accordance with I.C. 5-14-3 and this chapter;
   (G)   When requested by the Board of Commissioners, investigate any matter
concerning or relevant to land use in the county, and render a written report
to the Board of Commissioners on the same;
   (H)   Prepare and submit an annual report of the activities of the Plan
Department to the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Zoning Appeals and the
Plan Commission; and
   (I)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned, from time to time, by
the Plan Commission or Commissioners including but not limited to the duties of
the planners and inspectors.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.332 DUTIES OF THE PLANNERS.
   On behalf of the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
Plan Commission and the Planning Director, the planners shall:
   (A)   Receive all applications for approvals, recommendations, permits,
certificates and appeals, and review all such applications for compliance with
this chapter;
   (B)   Receive all petitions for zoning amendments and review all such
petitions for compliance with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   Prepare a report and recommendation on each application or petition
received and forward said report and recommendation to the Planning Director;
   (D)   Provide the public, upon request, with information and materials
concerning this chapter and all rules and procedures adopted thereunder,
subject to any limitation imposed in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3 and this
chapter; and
   (E)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned, from time to time, by
the Planning Director.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.333 DUTIES OF THE ZONING INSPECTORS.
   On behalf of the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
Plan Commission, the Planning Director and the planners, the zoning inspectors
shall:
   (A)   Inspect structures and land uses for compliance with this chapter;
   (B )   Assist in the review of applications for approvals, recommendations,
permits, certificates and appeals;
   (C)   Assist in the review of petitions for zoning amendments;
   (D)   Assist the attorney for the Plan Commission in the enforcement of the
this chapter; and
   (E)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned, from time to time, by
the Planning Director.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.345 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The erection, demolition, conversion, construction, enlargement,
moving or maintenance of any structure, or the use of any land, structure or
premises, which is contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter, is hereby
declared to be a common nuisance and an unlawful violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The erection, demolition, conversion, construction, enlargement,
moving or maintenance of any structure, or the use of any land, structure, or
premises, which is contrary to any requirement, condition or commitment imposed
or made by the Board, Commission, Planning Director or applicant under the
provisions of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a common nuisance and an
unlawful violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person, whether as principal agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer or otherwise who, either individually
or in concert with another, acts contrary to any provision of this chapter or a
condition or commitment made thereunder, shall be liable for maintaining a
common nuisance and shall be in violation of this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.346 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Director to enforce the
provisions of this chapter in the manner and form and with the powers provided
by this chapter.
   (B)   If the Planning Director finds that any provision of this chapter is
being, or has been, violated, he or she shall send a written notice to the
person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it. Additional written notices may
be sent at the Planning Director’s discretion.
   (C)   The final written notice (and the initial written notice may be the
final notice) shall state what action the Planning Director intends to take if
the violation is not corrected.
   (D)   If the violation is not corrected, the Planning Director shall seek
Plan Commission authority to pursue the remedies authorized by this chapter.
   (E)   The above notwithstanding, in cases where delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of the ordinance or pose a danger to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the Planning Director may seek enforcement
without prior written notice or Board authority by invoking any of the remedies
authorized by this chapter.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.347 AUTHORIZED REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon a reasonable belief that a person is violating a provision of
this chapter or a condition, requirement or commitment imposed or made
thereunder, the Planning Director may seek, with the assistance of the
Commission Attorney, the following civil remedies:
      (1)   A civil penalty for ordinance violation;
      (2)   A temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction or permanent
injunction to restrain a person from violating the ordinance or a condition,
requirement or commitment imposed or made thereunder; and
      (3)   A mandatory injunction directing a person to perform a condition,
requirement or condition imposed or made under the ordinance or to remove a
structure erected in violation of the ordinance. The foregoing remedies may be
sought by any property owner specially damaged by any such violation of the
ordinance.
   (B)   In the event the Planning Director finds that a violation of the terms
and provision of an approval, certificate or permit granted pursuant to these
regulations has occurred, the Planning Director may use the following
administrative remedies:
      (1)   Suspend and withhold other approvals, certificates and/or permits
relevant to the development or use of the site on which the violation has
occurred (such as, if a structure which is subject to a Commission-approved
development plan is occupied prior to the issuance of a land use certificate
therefore, and such land use certificate cannot be issued because all
improvements serving such structure (as shown on the approved development plan,
including sewage disposal systems) have not been properly installed or have not
become operational, the Planning Director shall not issue any additional
improvement location permits for structures within the development plan until
all previously approved improvements serving such structure are properly
installed and operational, and such structure otherwise qualifies for the
issuance of the land use certificate); and/or
      (2)   Issue a stop work order and instruct the building permit official
to suspend and withhold all building code inspections relevant to the
development or use of the site on which the violation has occurred (such as, if
the terms and provisions of an erosion control/grading plan have been violated,
the building permit official shall, at the Planning Director’s request, suspend
and withhold all subsequent building code inspections at the site of the
violation, until the violation has been corrected, as determined by the
Planning Director). (The building permit official shall comply with the
Planning Director’s instructions in this regard);
      (3)   Draw on an application letter of credit, or other financial
guaranty, as necessary to affect any remedial actions required to abate the
violation; and/or
      (4)   Revoke the permits, certificates and/or approvals that have been
violated. The purpose of each of the foregoing administrative remedies is to
encourage compliance with the terms and provisions of the approval, certificate
and/or permit without having to resort to litigation. If used, the Planning
Director shall apply the foregoing remedies in a measured and reasonable
fashion to achieve their recognized purpose (such as, withholding or revoking
only those permits that relate directly to the violation, such as improvement
location permits for the structures that would be primarily served by the
unfinished street).
   (C)   The Planning Director may issue ordinance violation notices for
violations of this chapter. The ordinance violation notices may be processed
through the County Attorney. If the person to whom the notice is issued does
not file an admission in a timely manner, the Planning Director may address the
violation by employing any other enforcement remedies authorized by law and may
seek civil penalties in the full amount authorized by this chapter.
   (D)   The remedies provided for in these regulations shall be cumulative,
and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by
law.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
FEES
§ 155.360 FEE REQUIREMENT AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be accompanied by the filing fees specified by Plan Commission
rule and posted in the Plan Commission office.
   (B)   No part of any filing fee shall be returnable to the applicant except
by order of the Plan Commission or of a court of competent jurisdiction. All
fees shall be payable to the County Plan Commission and shall be deposited
according to procedures established by the County Auditor.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.361 EXEMPTIONS FROM FEE REQUIREMENT.
   Governmental agencies shall be exempt from paying fees for improvement
location permits, land use certificates or any other permit prescribed by these
regulations.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.362 WAIVER OF FEE REQUIREMENT.
   An applicant or petitioner may request a waiver of the fee requirement
pursuant to and in accordance with the county code ordinances.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
§ 155.363 PLAN COMMISSION AND BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS FEES.
Type of Fee Amount
Type of Fee                Amount
Preliminary plat           $500 + $25 per lot + $100 per street/traffic sign
Final plat                 $500 +$100 per street/traffic sign for additional
                           signs
Minor subdivision          $200 + $100 per street/traffic sign
Administrative subdivision $100
Plat amendments            $250 + $25 per lot + $100 per street/traffic sign
Rezone                     $500
Design variance            $250
Use variance               $500
Conditional use            $250
Planned unit development   $500 + $100 per street/traffic sign
Appeal                     $200
*Applicant/petitioner must reimburse for all postage and notice publication
fees.
 
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003; BC Ord. 2009-014, passed
8-17-2009; BC Ord. 2023-014, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Subdivision control. Penalties for violation of §§
155.080 through
155.123 shall be in accordance with state law and county ordinance(s) setting
forth penalties for infractions. Each day of a violation shall be considered as
a separate infraction. Major violations shall be defined as a violation
resulting from an intentional act or careless disregard for these regulations.
The penalty for major violations shall not exceed $500 for each infraction (day
of violation). Minor violations shall include violations resulting from
inadvertent action or failure to act. The penalty for minor violations shall
start at $50 for each infraction (day of violation) and increase in a manner to
be determined by the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall notify a
violator that he or she is in violation of §§
155.080 through
155.123 prior to assessment of any penalties.
   (B)   Zoning Code. Penalties for violation of this chapter except for §§
155.080 through
155.123 shall be in accordance with state law and county ordinance(s) setting
forth penalties for infractions. Each day of a violation shall be considered as
a separate infraction. Major violations shall be defined as a violation
resulting from an intentional act or careless disregard for these regulations.
The penalty for major violations shall not exceed $500 for each infraction (day
of violation). Minor violations shall include violations resulting from
inadvertent action or failure to act. The penalty for minor violations shall
start at $50 for each infraction (day of violation) and increase in a manner to
be determined by the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall notify a
violator that he or she is in violation of this chapter prior to assessment of
any penalties.
(BC Ord. passed 1-22-2003; BC Ord. passed 3-26-2003)
CHAPTER 156: UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
Section
   
156.01   Title and scope
   
156.02   Administration
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Unsafe buildings and premises described
   
156.05   Commissioners’ findings; vacant or deteriorated structures
   
156.06   Orders; contents; notice; expiration
   
156.07   Modification or rescission of orders
   
156.08   Hearings; hearing authority findings and actions; additional period
for ordered actions; continuous enforcement order; performance bond; record of
findings; collection of penalties
   
156.09   Noncompliance with order to repair or rehabilitate unsafe building;
civil penalties
   
156.10   Appeals
   
156.11   Emergency action; recovery of costs; challenge of determination of
emergency
   
156.12   Action to enforce orders
   
156.13   Liability for costs for performance of work required by orders
   
156.14   Liability for cost of emergency action taken or performance of work
required by orders
   
156.15   Notice of unpaid costs; filing with Clerk of Court; hearing; judgment
lien
   
156.16   Unpaid costs for unsafe premises repairs or emergency actions taken;
collection
   
156.17   Unsafe Building Fund; deposits and expenditures
   
156.18   Inspection warrants
   
156.19   Civil actions regarding unsafe premises; treble damages under second
or subsequent judgment
   
156.20   Injunctions
   
156.21   Performance bond
   
156.22   Civil forfeitures
   
156.23   Appointment of receiver; conditions; rehabilitation of property by
owner, mortgagee, or person with substantial interest
   
156.24   Property determined unsafe and abandoned; receiver; sale proceeds; fee
simple estate subject to easements, liens, and encumbrances
   
156.25   Court order authorizing performance of work; judgment for costs
   
156.26   Emergencies; court order authorizing action to make premises safe;
judgment for costs
   
156.27   Change of venue and judge
   
156.28   Priority of actions
   
156.29   Manner of serving notice
   
156.30   Recording of orders, statements of rescission, statements of public
bids, and records of actions taken by hearing authority
   
156.31   Transfers of property by persons not complying with orders
   
156.32   Order of action related to unsafe premises; written information
required
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   The Board of Commissioners of the County of Owen do hereby adopt the
following Owen County unsafe building and premises law. This chapter shall
apply to all areas of Owen County under the jurisdiction of the Owen County
Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Board of Commissioners of the County of Owen hereby appoints the
Building, Plan Commission, and Board of Zoning Appeals Department to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION. A citizen's group, neighborhood association,
neighborhood development corporation, or similar organization that:
      (1)   Has specific geographic boundaries defined in its bylaws or
articles of incorporation and contains at least 40 households within those
boundaries;
      (2)   Is a nonprofit corporation that is representative of at least 25
households or 20% of the households in the community, whichever is less;
      (3)   Is operated primarily for the promotion of social welfare and
general neighborhood improvement and enhancement;
      (4)   Has been incorporated for at least two years; and
      (5)   Is exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
   CONTINUOUS ENFORCEMENT ORDER. An order that:
      (1)   Is issued for compliance or abatement and that remains in full
force and effect on a property without further requirements to seek additional:
         (a)   Compliance and abatement authority; or
         (b)   Orders for the same or similar violations;
      (2)   Authorizes specific ongoing compliance and enforcement activities
if a property requires reinspection or additional periodic abatement;
      (3)   Can be enforced, including assessment of fees and costs, without
the need for additional notice or hearing; and
      (4)   Authorizes the enforcement authority to assess and collect ongoing
costs for continuous enforcement order activities from any party that is
subject to the enforcement authority's order.
   DEPARTMENT. The Building, Plan Commission, and Board of Zoning Appeals
Department.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The chief administrative officer of the Department or
their designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. A three member board consisting of a County Commissioner
or a designee appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the County of Owen,
the Administrator of the Owen County Health Department or their designee, and
the Highway Superintendent or their designee.
   KNOWN OR RECORDED FEE INTEREST, LIFE ESTATE INTEREST, OR EQUITABLE INTEREST
OF A CONTRACT PURCHASER. Any fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable
interest of a contract purchaser held by a person whose identity and address
may be determined from:
      (1)   An instrument recorded in the Owen County Recorder's office;
      (2)   Written information or actual knowledge received by the department;
or
      (3)   A review of department records that is sufficient to identify
information that is reasonably ascertainable.
   KNOWN OR RECORDED SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property,
including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage
interest, a lien as evidenced by a certificate of sale issued under I.C. 6-1.1-
24, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser, that:
      (1)   May be affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this
chapter; and
      (2)   Is held by a person whose identity and address may be determined
from:
         (a)   An instrument recorded in:
            1.   The Owen County Recorder's office; or
            2.   The Owen County Auditor's office in the case of a lien
evidenced by a certificate of sale issued under I.C. 6-1.1-24;
         (b)   Written information or actual knowledge received by the
Department; or
         (c)   A review of Department records that is sufficient to identify
information that is reasonably ascertainable.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest,
or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024; BC Ord. 2024-015, passed 7-3-2024)
§ 156.04 UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PREMISES DESCRIBED.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, a building or structure, or any part of
a building or structure, that is any of the following is considered an unsafe
building:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant or blighted and not maintained in a manner that would allow
human habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the following are considered unsafe
premises:
      (1)   An unsafe building and the tract of real property on which the
unsafe building is located.
      (2)   A tract of real property, not including land used for the
production agriculture, that does not contain a building or structure or
contains a building or structure that is not considered an unsafe building, if
the tract of real property is:
         (a)   A fire hazard;
         (b)   A hazard to public health;
         (c)   A public nuisance; or
         (d)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or an ordinance.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.05 COMMISSIONERS' FINDINGS; VACANT OR DETERIORATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   In Owen County there exists a number of unoccupied structures that are
not maintained and that constitute a hazard to public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (B)   Vacant structures often become dilapidated because the structures are
not maintained and repaired by the owners or persons in control of the
structures.
   (C)   Vacant structures attract children, become harborage for vermin, serve
as temporary abodes for vagrants and criminals, and are likely to be damaged by
vandals or set ablaze by arsonists.
   (D)   Unkept grounds surrounding vacant structures invite dumping of
garbage, trash, and other debris.
   (E)   Many vacant structures are situated on small lots and in close
proximity to neighboring structures, thereby increasing the risk of
conflagration and spread of insect and rodent infestation.
   (F)   Vacant, deteriorated structures contribute to blight, cause a decrease
in property values, and discourage neighbors from making improvements to
properties.
   (G)   Structures that remain boarded up for an extended period of time also
exert a blighting influence and contribute to the decline of the neighborhood
by decreasing property values, discouraging persons from moving into the
neighborhood, and encouraging persons to move out of the neighborhood.
   (H)   Vacant structures often continue to deteriorate to the point that
demolition of the structure is required, thereby decreasing available housing
in Owen County and further contributing to the decline of the neighborhood.
   (I)   The blighting influence of vacant, deteriorated structures adversely
affects the tax revenues of Owen County.
   (J)   The Commissioners find that vacant, deteriorated structures create a
serious and substantial problem in Owen County and are public nuisances.
   (K)   In recognition of the problems created in a Owen County by vacant
structures, the Commissioners find that vigorous and disciplined action should
be taken to ensure the proper maintenance and repair of vacant structures and
premises.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.06 ORDERS; CONTENTS; NOTICE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may issue an order requiring action relative
to any unsafe structure or premises, including:
      (1)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
      (2)   Sealing an unsafe building in a manner that will ensure against
intrusion by unauthorized persons;
      (3)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (4)   Removal of trash, debris, fire hazardous material, or a public
health hazard in and about the unsafe premises;
      (5)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy, or use by a statute, a rule adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2, or an ordinance;
      (6)   Demolition and removal of part of an unsafe building;
      (7)   Demolition and removal of an unsafe building if:
         (a)   The general condition of the building warrants removal; or
         (b)   The building continues to require reinspection and additional
abatement action after an initial abatement action was taken pursuant to notice
and an order; and
      (8)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a period
of more than 90 days:
         (a)   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
effects of weather;
         (b)   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
         (c)   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and premises.
Notice of the order must be given under §
156.29. The ordered action must be reasonably related to the condition of the
unsafe premises and the nature and use of nearby properties. The order
supersedes any permit relating to building or land use, whether that permit is
obtained before or after the order is issued.
   (B)   The order must contain the following:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued.
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are
the subject of the order.
      (3)   The action that the order requires.
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is given.
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
place of the hearing, and stating that person to whom the order was issued is
entitled to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel, present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments.
      (6)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that an order under
division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) becomes final ten days after notice
is given, unless a hearing is requested in writing by a person holding a fee
interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser
in the unsafe premises, and the request is delivered to the enforcement
authority before the end of the ten day period.
      (7)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
enforcement authority if the order is not complied with.
      (8)   A statement indicating the obligation created by §
156.31 relating to notification of subsequent interest holders and the
enforcement authority.
      (9)   The name, address, and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
      (10)   A statement that the hearing authority may determine the property
to be abandoned as provided in I.C. 36-7-37.
   (C)   The order must allow a sufficient time of at least ten days but not
more than 60 days from the time when notice of the order is given to accomplish
the required action. If the order allows more than 30 days to accomplish the
action, the order may require that a substantial beginning be made in
accomplishing the action within 30 days.
   (D)   The order expires two years from the day the notice of the order is
given, unless one or more of the following events occurs within that two year
period:
      (1)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed under §
156.10.
      (2)   A contract for action required by the order is let at public bid
under §
156.13.
      (3)   A civil action is filed under §
156.19.
   (E)   If the order contains a statement under division (A)(6) or (A)(7),
notice of the order shall be given to each person with a known or recorded
substantial property interest.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.07 MODIFICATIONS OR RESCISSION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may issue an order that modifies the order
previously issued.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may rescind an order previously issued, even
if the order has been affirmed by the hearing authority.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.08 HEARINGS; HEARING AUTHORITY FINDINGS AND ACTION; ADDITIONAL PERIOD FOR
ORDERED ACTIONS; CONTINUOUS ENFORCEMENT ORDER; PERFORMANCE BOND; RECORD OF
FINDINGS; COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.
   (A)   A hearing must be held relative to each order of the enforcement
authority, except for an order issued under §§
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), or
156.09. An order issued under §§
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), or
156.09 becomes final ten days after notice is given, unless a hearing is
requested before the ten day period ends by a person holding a fee interest,
life estate interest, mortgage interest, or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing
authority.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than ten days
after notice of the order is given. The hearing authority may, however, take
action at the hearing, or before the hearing if a written request is received
by the enforcement authority not later than five days after notice is given, to
continue the hearing to a business day not later than 14 days after the hearing
date shown on the order. Unless the hearing authority takes action to have the
continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the continued
hearing must be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
days before the continued hearing date, in the manner prescribed by §
156.29. If the order being considered at the continued hearing was served by
publication, it is sufficient to give notice of the continued hearing by
publication unless the enforcement authority has received information in
writing that enables it to make service under §
156.29 by a method other than publication.
   (C)   The person to whom the order was issued, any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises that are the subject of
the order, or any other person with an interest in the proceedings may appear
in person or by counsel at the hearing. Each person appearing at the hearing is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present
arguments.
   (D)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the hearing authority may make findings and take action to:
      (1)   Affirm the order;
      (2)   Rescind the order; or
      (3)   Modify the order, but unless the person to whom the order was
issued, or counsel for that person, is present at the hearing, the hearing
authority may modify the order in only a manner that makes its terms less
stringent.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to affirming the order, in those cases in which the
hearing authority finds that there has been a willful failure to comply with
the order, the hearing authority may impose a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed $5,000. The effective date of the civil penalty may be postponed for a
reasonable period, after which the hearing authority may order the civil
penalty reduced or stricken if the hearing authority is satisfied that all work
necessary to fully comply with the order has been done. For purposes of an
appeal under §
156.10 or enforcement of an order under §
156.19, action of the hearing authority is considered final upon the
affirmation of the order, even though the hearing authority may retain
jurisdiction for the ultimate determination related to the civil penalty. In
the hearing authority's exercise of continuing jurisdiction, the hearing
authority may, in addition to reducing or striking the civil penalty, impose
one or more additional civil penalties in an amount not to exceed $5,000 per
civil penalty. An additional civil penalty may be imposed if the hearing
authority finds that:
         (a)   Significant work on the premises to comply with the affirmed
order has not been accomplished; and
         (b)   The premises have a negative effect on property values or the
quality of life of the surrounding area or the premises require the provision
of services by local government in excess of the services required by ordinary
properties.
      (2)   The hearing authority may not impose an additional civil penalty in
a hearing to review a civil penalty imposed by the enforcement authority under
§
156.09.
   (F)   If, at a hearing, a person to whom an order has been issued requests
an additional period to accomplish action required by the order, and shows good
cause for this request to be granted, the hearing authority may grant the
request. However, as a condition for allowing the additional period, the
hearing authority may require that the person post a performance bond to be
forfeited if the action required by the order is not completed within the
additional period.
   (G)   If an order is affirmed or modified, the hearing authority shall issue
a continuous enforcement order (as defined in §
156.03).
   (H)   The Commissioners may, at a public hearing, after having given notice
of the time and place of the hearing by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1, adopt a schedule setting forth the maximum amount of performance bonds
applicable to various types of ordered action. The hearing authority shall use
this schedule to fix the amount of the performance bond required under division
(F) above.
   (I)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the hearing
authority at the hearing shall be available to the public upon request.
However, neither the enforcement authority nor the hearing authority is
required to give any person notice of the findings and action.
   (J)   If a civil penalty under division (E) above is unpaid for more than 15
days after payment of the civil penalty is due, the civil penalty may be
collected from any person against whom the hearing officer assessed the civil
penalty or fine. A civil penalty or fine may be collected under this division
in the same manner as costs under §§
156.15 or
156.16. The amount of the civil penalty or fine that is collected shall be
deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.09 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH ORDER TO REPAIR OR REHABILITATE UNSAFE BUILDING;
CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   This section applies to an order issued under §
156.06(A)(5) for which a hearing was not requested as provided in §
156.08.
   (B)   If the person to whom the order was issued fails or refuses to comply
with the order within 60 days or the time specified in the order, the
enforcement authority may impose a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500. The
enforcement authority shall give notice of the civil penalty to all persons
with a known or recorded substantial property interest in the unsafe premises.
   (C)   After a civil penalty is imposed under division (B), the enforcement
authority may impose an additional civil penalty in an amount not to exceed
$1,000 every 90 days if the person to whom the order was issued continues to
fail or refuse to comply with the order.
   (D)   If a civil penalty under this section is unpaid for more than 15 days
after payment of the civil penalty is due, the civil penalty may be collected
in the same manner as costs under §§
156.15 or
156.16. The amount of the civil penalty that is collected shall be deposited in
the Unsafe Building Fund.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   An action taken by the hearing authority under §§
156.08(D), (E), or
156.10(D) or a finding by the hearing authority of abandonment under I.C. 36-7-
37 is subject to review by the Circuit Court of Owen County in which the unsafe
premises are located, on request of:
      (1)   Any person who has a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises; or
      (2)   Any person to whom that order or finding was issued.
   (B)   A person requesting judicial review under this section must file a
verified complaint including the findings of fact and the action taken by the
hearing authority. The complaint must be filed within ten days after the date
when the action was taken.
   (C)   An appeal under this section is an action de novo. The court may
affirm, modify, or reverse the action taken by the hearing authority.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.11 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS; CHALLENGE OF DETERMINATION OF
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   If the enforcement authority finds it necessary to take emergency
action concerning an unsafe premises in order to protect life, safety, or
property, it may take that action without issuing an order or giving notice.
However, this emergency action must be limited to removing any immediate
danger.
   (B)   The department, acting through the enforcement authority, may recover
the costs incurred by the enforcement authority in taking emergency action, by
filing a civil action in the Circuit Court of Owen County against the persons
who held a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser in the unsafe premises at the time the enforcement authority
found it necessary to take emergency action. The department is not liable for
the costs of this civil action.
   (C)   If an unsafe premises poses an immediate danger to the life or safety
of persons occupying or using nearby property, the enforcement authority may,
without following this chapter's requirements for issuing an order and giving
notice, take emergency action to require persons to vacate and not use the
nearby property until the danger has passed. However, any person required to
vacate an unsafe premises under this division may challenge in an emergency
court proceeding the enforcement authority's determination that the premises
poses an immediate danger to the life or safety of any person. In an emergency
court proceeding, the enforcement authority has the burden of proving that
emergency action is necessary to protect from immediate danger the life or
safety of persons occupying or using nearby property.
   (D)   Instead of filing a civil action to recover the costs incurred by the
enforcement authority in taking emergency action, the enforcement authority may
set a hearing for the hearing authority to review the necessity of the
emergency action and the amount of the costs of the emergency action. Notice of
the hearing must be provided to each person with a known or recorded
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises. If the emergency action
or the costs of the emergency action are determined by the hearing authority to
have been an abuse of discretion or otherwise unlawful, the hearing authority
may reduce or deny the costs of the emergency action as warranted under the
circumstances; otherwise, the hearing authority shall affirm the costs of the
emergency action. The amount of the costs affirmed by the hearing authority may
then be collected as provided in §§
156.14 through
156.16.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.12 ACTION TO ENFORCE ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order
issued under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) to be performed by a contractor if:
      (1)   The order has been served, in the manner prescribed by §
156.29, on each person having a known or recorded fee interest, life estate
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises
that are the subject of the order;
      (2)   The order has not been complied with;
      (3)   A hearing was not requested under §
156.06(B)(6), or, if a hearing was requested, the order was affirmed at the
hearing; and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed under §
156.10.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order,
other than an order under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), to be performed if:
      (1)   Service of an order under §
156.06(A)(1), in the manner prescribed by §
156.29, has been made on each person having a known or recorded substantial
property interest or present possessory interest in the unsafe premises that
are the subject of the order;
      (2)   Service of an order under §
156.06(A)(6), (A)(7), or (A)(8), in the manner prescribed by §
156.29, has been made on each person having a known or recorded substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises that are the subject of the order;
      (3)   The order has been affirmed or modified at the hearing in such a
manner that all persons having a known or recorded substantial property
interest, and persons holding a present possessory interest, as required, in
the unsafe premises that are the subject of the order are currently subject to
an order requiring the accomplishment of substantially identical action;
      (4)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with; and
      (5)   The order is not being reviewed under §
156.10.
   (C)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement by
publication and indicate that the enforcement authority intends to perform the
work, unless the authority has received information in writing that enables it
to make service under §
156.29 by a method other than publication.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.13 LIABILITY FOR COSTS FOR PERFORMANCE OF WORK REQUIRED BY ORDERS.
   (A)   The work required by an order of the enforcement authority may be
performed in the following manner:
      (1)   If the work is being performed under an order other than an order
under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), and if the cost of this work is estimated to
be less than $10,000, the Department, acting through the unit's enforcement
authority or other agent, may perform the work by means of the unit's own
workers and equipment owned or leased by the unit. Notice that this work is to
be performed must be given to all persons with a known or recorded substantial
property interest, in the manner prescribed in division (C), at least ten days
before the date of performance of the work by
the enforcement authority. This notice must include a statement that an amount
representing a reasonable estimate of the cost incurred by the enforcement
authority in processing the matter and performing the work may, if not paid, be
recorded after a hearing as a lien against all persons having a fee interest,
life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the
unsafe premises.
      (2)   If the work is being performed under an order other than an order
under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), and if the estimated cost of this work is
$10,000 or more, this work must be let at public bid to a contractor licensed
and qualified under law. The obligation to pay costs imposed by §
156.14 is based on the condition of the unsafe premises at the time the public
bid was accepted. Changes occurring in the condition of the unsafe premises
after the public bid was accepted do not eliminate or diminish this obligation.
      (3)   If the work is being performed under an order issued under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), the work may be performed by a contractor who
has been awarded a base bid contract to perform the work for the enforcement
authority, or by the Department, acting through the unit's enforcement
authority or other governmental agency and using the unit's own workers and
equipment owned or leased by the unit. Work performed under an order issued
under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of this chapter may be performed without
further notice to the persons holding a fee interest, life estate interest, or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser, and these persons are liable for
the costs incurred by the enforcement authority in processing the matter and
performing the work, as provided by §
156.14.
   (B)   Bids may be solicited and accepted for work on more than one property
if the bid reflects an allocation of the bid amount among the various unsafe
premises in proportion to the work to be accomplished. The part of the bid
amount attributable to each of the unsafe premises constitutes the basis for
calculating the part of the costs described by §
156.14(A)(1).
   (C)   All persons who have a known or recorded substantial property interest
in the unsafe premises and are subject to an order other than an order under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) must be notified about the public bid in the
manner prescribed by §
156.29, by means of a written statement including:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order was issued;
      (2)   A legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order;
      (3)   A statement that a contract is to be let at public bid to a
licensed contractor to accomplish work to comply with the order;
      (4)   A description of work to be accomplished;
      (5)   A statement that both the bid price of the licensed contractor who
accomplishes the work and an amount representing a reasonable estimate of the
cost incurred by the enforcement authority in processing the matter of the
unsafe premises may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien against
all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest
of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (6)   The time of the bid opening;
      (7)   The place of the bid opening; and
      (8)   The name, address, and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (D)   If the notice of the statement that public bids are to be let is
served by publication, the publication must include the information required by
division (C), except that it need only include a general description of the
work to be accomplished. The publication must also state that a copy of the
statement of public bid may be obtained from the enforcement authority.
   (E)   Notice of the statement that public bids are to be let must be given,
at least ten days before the date of the public bid, to all persons who have a
known or recorded substantial property interest in the property and are subject
to an order other than an order under §
156.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4).
   (F)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
public bids are to be let by publication, unless the enforcement authority has
received information in writing that enables the unit to make service under §
156.29 by a method other than publication.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.14 LIABILITY FOR COST OF EMERGENCY ACTION TAKEN OR PERFORMANCE OF WORK
REQUIRED BY ORDERS.
   (A)   When action required by an order is performed by the enforcement
authority or by a contractor acting under §§
156.11 or
156.13, each person who held a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable
interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises from the time when the
order requiring the work performed was issued to the time that the work was
completed, or, if emergency action was taken under §
156.11, during the time of such emergency action, is jointly and severally
responsible for the following costs:
      (1)   The:
         (a)   Actual cost of the emergency action taken, as affirmed by the
hearing authority; or
         (b)   Actual cost of the work performed by the enforcement authority
or the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor under §
156.13.
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the enforcement authority in taking
the technical, administrative, and legal actions concerning typical unsafe
premises that are necessary under this chapter so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor under §§
156.11 or
156.13. In calculating the amount of the average processing expense, the
following costs may be considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of persons who own a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises;
         (b)   The cost of notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, notice of statements that public bids
are to be let or that the enforcement authority intends to accomplish the work,
and notice that a hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record,
in accordance with §
156.29;
         (c)   Salaries for employees; and
         (d)   The cost of supplies, equipment, and office space.
   (B)   The board or commission having control over the Department shall
determine the amount of the average processing expense at the public hearing,
after notice has been given in the same manner as is required for other
official action of the board or commission. In determining the average
processing expense, the board or commission may fix the amount at a full dollar
amount that is an even multiple of ten.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.15 NOTICE OF UNPAID COSTS; FILING WITH CLERK OF COURT; HEARING; JUDGMENT
LIEN.
   (A)   If all or any part of the costs listed in §
156.14 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than unsafe premises owned
by a governmental entity) for more than 15 days after the completion of the
work, the enforcement authority does not act under §
156.16, and the enforcement authority determines that there is a reasonable
probability of obtaining recovery, the enforcement authority shall prepare a
record stating:
      (1)   The name and last known address of each person who held a known or
recorded fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser in the unsafe premises from the time the order requiring the
work to be performed was recorded to the time that the work was completed;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that were
the subject of work;
      (3)   The nature of the work that was accomplished;
      (4)   The amount of the unpaid bid price of the work that was
accomplished; and
      (5)   The amount of the unpaid average processing expense.
   (B)   The enforcement authority, or its head, shall swear to the accuracy of
the record before the Clerk of the Owen Circuit Court and deposit the record in
the Clerk's office. Notice that the record has been filed and that a hearing on
the amounts indicated in the record may be held must be sent in the manner
prescribed by §
156.29 to all of the following:
      (1)   The persons named in the record; and
      (2)   Any mortgagee that has a known or recorded substantial property
interest.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after the notice required by division (B), a person
named in the record or a mortgagee files with the Clerk of the Owen Circuit
Court a written petition objecting to the claim for payment and requesting a
hearing, the Clerk shall enter the cause on the docket of the Owen Circuit
Court as a civil action, and a hearing shall be held on the question in the
manner prescribed by I.C. 4-21.5. However, issues that could have been
determined under §
156.10 may not be entertained at the hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the Court shall either sustain the petition or enter a judgment against the
persons named in the record for the amounts recorded or for modified amounts.
   (D)   If no petition is filed under division (C), the Clerk of the Owen
Circuit Court shall enter the cause on the docket of the Court and the Court
shall enter a judgment for the amounts stated in the record.
   (E)   A judgment under division (C) or (D), to the extent that it is not
satisfied under I.C. 27-2-15, is a debt and a lien on all the real and personal
property of the person named, or a joint and several debt and lien on the real
and personal property of the persons named in the record prepared under
division (A). The lien on real property is perfected against all creditors and
purchasers when the judgment is entered on the judgment docket of the court.
The lien on personal property is perfected by filing a lis pendens notice in
the appropriate filing office, as prescribed by the Indiana Rules of Trial
Procedure.
   (F)   Judgments rendered under this section may be enforced in the same
manner as all other judgments are enforced.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.16 UNPAID COSTS FOR UNSAFE PREMISES REPAIRS OR EMERGENCY ACTIONS TAKEN;
COLLECTION.
   (A)   This section does not apply to the collection of an amount if a court
determines under §
156.15 that the enforcement authority is not entitled to the amount.
   (B)   If:
      (1)   All or any part of the costs listed in §
156.14 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than unsafe premises owned
by a governmental entity) for more than 15 days after completion of the work;
or
      (2)   Emergency action was taken under §
156.11, for more than 15 days after the costs of the emergency action have been
affirmed by the hearing authority;
the enforcement authority may send notice under §
156.29 to each person who held a known or recorded fee interest, life estate
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
If the notice is sent, the enforcement authority shall also send notice to any
mortgagee with a known or recorded substantial property interest. The notice
must require full payment of the amount owed within 30 days.
   (C)   If full payment of the amount owed is not made less than 30 days after
the notice is delivered, the enforcement officer may certify the following
information to the Owen County Auditor:
      (1)   The name of each person who held a known or recorded fee interest,
life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the
unsafe premises.
      (2)   The description of the unsafe premises, as shown by the records of
the Owen County Auditor.
      (3)   The amount of the delinquent payment, including all costs described
in §
156.14.
   (D)   The Owen County Auditor shall place the total amount certified under
division (C) on the tax duplicate for the affected property as a special
assessment. The total amount, including accrued interest, shall be collected as
delinquent taxes are collected.
   (E)   An amount collected under division (D), after all other taxes have
been collected and disbursed, shall be disbursed to the unsafe building fund.
   (F)   A judgment entered under §§
156.15,
156.22,
156.25, or
156.26 may be certified to the auditor and collected under this section.
However, a judgment lien need not be obtained under §
156.13 before a debt is certified under this section.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.17 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND; DEPOSITS AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall establish in its operating budget a
fund designated as the Unsafe Building Fund. Any balance remaining at the end
of a fiscal year shall be carried over in the Fund for the following year and
does not revert to the General Fund.
   (B)   Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any source,
including appropriations by local, state, or federal governments, and
donations. The following money shall be deposited in the Fund:
      (1)   Money received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments established under §§
156.11 through
156.15 and
156.19 through
156.26;
      (2)   Money received from bonds posted under §
156.08;
      (3)   Money received in satisfaction of receivers' notes or certificates
that were issued under §
156.23 and were purchased with money from the Unsafe Building Fund;
      (4)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties or
fines imposed under §
156.08; and
      (5)   Money received from the collection of special assessments under §
156.16.
   (C)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, including:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and
location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
      (2)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the Department;
      (3)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by §
156.29;
      (5)   The bid price of work by a contractor under §§
156.12 or
156.19 through
156.26;
      (6)   The cost of emergency action under §
156.11; and
      (7)   The cost of notes or receivers' certificates issued under §
156.23.
   (D)   Payment of money from the Unsafe Building Fund must be made in
accordance with applicable law.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.18 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   If the owners or those in possession of a building refuse inspection,
an inspection officer of the enforcement authority may obtain an inspection
warrant from the Owen Circuit Court in which the building is located in order
to determine if the building is an unsafe building. The court shall issue the
warrant subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The person seeking the warrant must establish that the building to
be searched or inspected is to be searched or inspected as part of a legally
authorized program of inspection that naturally includes the building, or that
there is probable cause for believing that a condition, object, activity, or
circumstance legally justifies a search or inspection of that building.
      (2)   An affidavit establishing one of the grounds described in division
(1) must be signed under oath or affirmation by the affiant.
      (3)   The court must examine the affiant under oath or affirmation to
verify the accuracy of the affidavit.
   (B)   The warrant is valid only if it:
      (1)   Is signed by the judge of the court and bears the date and hour of
its issuance above that signature, with a notation that the warrant is valid
for only 48 hours after its issuance;
      (2)   Describes (either directly or by reference to the affidavit) the
building where the search or inspection is to occur so that the executor of the
warrant and owner or the possessor of the building can reasonably determine
what property the warrant authorizes an inspection of;
      (3)   Indicates the conditions, objects, activities, or circumstances
that the inspection is intended to check or reveal; and
      (4)   Is attached to the affidavit required to be made in order to obtain
the warrant.
   (C)   A warrant issued under this section is valid for only 48 hours after
its issuance, must be personally served upon the owner or possessor of the
building, and must be returned within 72 hours.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.19 CIVIL ACTIONS REGARDING UNSAFE PREMISES; TREBLE DAMAGES UNDER SECOND
OR SUBSEQUENT JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The Department, acting through its enforcement authority, a person
designated by the enforcement authority, or a community organization may bring
a civil action regarding unsafe premises in the Owen Circuit Court. The
department is not liable for the costs of such an action. The court may grant
one or more of the kinds of relief authorized by §§
156.20 through
156.26.
   (B)   A civil action may not be initiated under this section before the
final date of an order or an extension of an order under §
156.06(C) requiring:
      (1)   The completion of the required remedial action; or
      (2)   A substantial beginning toward accomplishing the completion of the
required remedial action.
   (C)   A community organization may not initiate a civil action under this
section if:
      (1)   The enforcement authority or a person designated by the enforcement
authority has filed a civil action under this section regarding the unsafe
premises; or
      (2)   The enforcement authority has issued a final order that the
required remedial action has been satisfactorily completed.
   (D)   A community organization may not initiate a civil action under this
section if the real property that is the subject of the civil action is located
outside the specific geographic boundaries of the area defined in the bylaws or
articles of incorporation of the community organization.
   (E)   At least 60 days before commencing a civil action under this section,
a community organization must issue a notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, that:
      (1)   Specifies:
         (a)   The nature of the alleged nuisance;
         (b)   The date the nuisance was first discovered;
         (c)   The location on the property where the nuisance is allegedly
occurring;
         (d)   The intent of the community organization to bring a civil action
under this section; and
         (e)   The relief sought in the action; and
      (2)   Is provided to:
         (a)   The owner of record of the premises;
         (b)   Tenants located on the premises;
         (c)   The enforcement authority; and
         (d)   Any person that possesses an interest of record.
   (F)   In any action filed by a community organization under this section, a
court may award reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and other reasonable
expenses of litigation to the prevailing party as allowed under I.C. 36-7-9 et
seq.
   (G)   If a second or subsequent civil judgment is entered under this
section:
      (1)   Against an owner of a known or recorded fee interest, life estate,
or equitable interest as a contract purchaser of property; and
      (2)   During any two year period;
a court may order the owner to pay treble damages based on the costs of the
ordered action. The second or subsequent civil judgment may relate to the same
property or a different property held by the owner.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.20 INJUNCTIONS.
   A court acting under §
156.19 may grant a mandatory or prohibitory injunction against any person that
will cause the order to be complied with, if it is shown that:
   (A)   An order, which need not set a hearing date, was issued to the person;
   (B)   The person has a property interest in the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order that would allow the person to take the action required by
the order;
   (C)   The building that is the subject of the order is an unsafe building;
and
   (D)   The order is not being reviewed under §
156.10.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.21 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   A court acting under §
156.19 may condition the granting of a period of time to accomplish the action
required by an order on the posting of a performance bond that will be
forfeited if the action required by the order is not completed within the
period the court allows. Before granting a period of time that is conditioned
on the posting of a bond, the court may require that the requesting person
justify the request with a workable and financially supported plan. If the
court determines that a significant amount of work must be accomplished to
comply with the order, the court may require that the bond specify interim
completion standards and provide that the bond is forfeited if any of these
interim completion standards are not substantially met.
   (B)   An amount collected under division (A) on a forfeited bond shall be
deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.22 CIVIL FORFEITURES.
   (A)   A court acting under §
156.19 may impose a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 against any person if
the conditions of §
156.20 are met. The penalty imposed may not be substantially less than the cost
of complying with the order, unless that cost exceeds $2,500. The effective
date of the penalty may be postponed for a period not to exceed 30 days, after
which the court may order the penalty reduced or stricken if it is satisfied
that all work necessary to fully comply with the order has been done.
   (B)   On request of the enforcement authority the court shall enter a
judgment in the amount of the penalty. If there is more than one party
defendant, the penalty is separately applicable to each defendant. The amount
of a penalty that is collected shall be deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.23 APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER; CONDITIONS; REHABILITATION OF PROPERTY BY
OWNER, MORTGAGEE, OR PERSON WITH SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   A court acting under §
156.19 may appoint a receiver for the unsafe premises, subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The purpose of the receivership must be to take possession of the
unsafe premises for a period sufficient to accomplish and pay for repairs and
improvements.
      (2)   The receiver may be a nonprofit corporation the primary purpose of
which is the improvement of housing conditions in the county where the unsafe
premises are located, or may be any other capable person.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any prior assignments of the rents and other income
of the unsafe premises, the receiver must collect and use that income to repair
or remove the defects as required by the order, and may, upon approval by the
court, make repairs and improvements in addition to those specified in the
order or required by applicable statutes, ordinances, codes, or regulations.
      (4)   The receiver may make any contracts and do all things necessary to
accomplish the repair and improvement of the unsafe premises.
      (5)   (a)   A receiver that expends money, performs labor, or furnishes
materials or machinery, including the leasing of equipment or tools, for the
repair of an unsafe premises may have a lien that is equal to the total
expended. When a lien exists, the receiver may sell the property:
            1.   To the highest bidder at auction under the same notice and
sale provisions applicable to a foreclosure sale of mechanic's liens or
mortgages; or
            2.   For fair market value if all persons having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises agree to the amount and procedure.
         (b)   The transferee in either a public or private sale must first
demonstrate the necessary ability and experience to rehabilitate the premises
within a reasonable time to the satisfaction of the receiver.
      (6)   The court may, after a hearing, authorize the receiver to obtain
money needed to accomplish the repairs and improvement by the issuance and sale
of notes or receiver's certificates to the receiver or any other person or
party bearing interest fixed by the court. The notes or certificates are a
first lien on the unsafe premises and the rents and income of the unsafe
building. This lien is superior to all other assignments of rents, liens,
mortgages, or other encumbrances on the property, except taxes, if, within 60
days following the sale or transfer for value of the notes by the receiver, the
holder of the notes files a notice containing the following information in the
Owen County Recorder's Office:
         (a)   The legal description of the tract of real property on which the
unsafe building is located;
         (b)   The face amount and interest rate of the note or certificate;
         (c)   The date when the note or certificate was sold or transferred by
the receiver; and
         (d)   The date of maturity.
      (7)   Upon payment to the holder of a receiver's note or certificate of
the face amount and interest, and upon filing in the Recorder's office of a
sworn statement of payment, the lien of that note or certificate is released.
Upon a default in payment on a receiver's note or certificate, the lien may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose in the manner prescribed for mechanic's
liens or mortgages. However, the foreclosure proceedings must be commenced
within two years after the date of default.
      (8)   The receiver is entitled to the same fees, commissions, and
necessary expenses as receivers in actions to foreclose mortgages. The fees,
commissions, and expenses shall be paid out of the rents and incomes of the
property in receivership.
   (B)   The issuance of an order concerning unsafe premises is not a
prerequisite to the appointment of a receiver nor does such an order prevent
the appointment of a receiver.
   (C)   If the enforcement authority or the enforcement authority's designee
requests the appointment of a receiver, all persons having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party defendants.
   (D)   A court, when granting powers and duties to a receiver, shall
consider:
      (1)   The occupancy of the unsafe premises;
      (2)   The overall condition of the property;
      (3)   The hazard to public health, safety, and welfare;
      (4)   The number of persons having a substantial property interest in the
unsafe premises; and
      (5)   Other factors the court considers relevant.
   (E)   Instead of appointing a receiver to sell or rehabilitate an unsafe
premises, the court may permit an owner, a mortgagee, or a person with
substantial interest in the unsafe premises to rehabilitate the premises if the
owner, mortgagee, or person with substantial interest:
      (1)   Demonstrates the ability to complete the rehabilitation within a
reasonable time, but not to exceed 60 days;
      (2)   Agrees to comply within a specified schedule for rehabilitation;
and
      (3)   Posts a bond as security for performance of the required work in
compliance with the specified schedule in division (E)(2) above.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.24 PROPERTY DETERMINED UNSAFE AND ABANDONED; RECEIVER; SALE PROCEEDS; FEE
SIMPLE ESTATE SUBJECT TO EASEMENTS, LIENS, AND ENCUMBRANCES.
   (A)   This section applies only to property determined to be:
      (1)   An unsafe premises under this chapter; and
      (2)   Abandoned under I.C. 36-7-37.
   (B)   The hearing authority is the Board of Commissioners of the County of
Owen.
   (C)   Upon the request of the enforcement authority or the enforcement
authority's designee, the Owen Circuit Court acting under §
156.19 may appoint a receiver to take possession of, rehabilitate, and transfer
the property. The receiver may be any competent person who has been approved by
the enforcement authority.
   (D)   If the enforcement authority or the enforcement authority's designee
requests the appointment of a receiver, all persons having a substantial
interest in the property shall be made party defendants and given notice.
   (E)   A receiver shall provide written notice to the Owen County Auditor and
the Owen County Treasurer that a receiver has been appointed.
   (F)   The Owen County Treasurer may file a proof of claim with the receiver
that identifies the taxes that are owed at the time the receiver took
possession of the property. The proof of claim must include a detailed
breakdown of all taxes, special assessments, fees, fines from the enforcement
authority, and penalties that are owed on the property.
   (G)   The Owen County Treasurer may request that the Owen County Auditor
waive penalties that were incurred after the proof of claim is filed. The Owen
County Auditor may waive such penalties.
   (H)   (1)   A receiver appointed to transfer property may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts and do all things necessary to maintain,
rehabilitate, and prepare the property for sale, including demolition of
structures or parts of structures that may not reasonably be rehabilitated;
         (b)   Enter into any contracts and do all things necessary to
accomplish the transfer of the property; and
         (c)   Investigate claims on the proceeds of sale submitted under
division (J).
      (2)   The enforcement authority may utilize funds from the Unsafe
Building Fund for expenses incurred by the receiver in carrying out the
receiver's responsibilities.
   (I)   A transfer under this section shall be conducted as follows:
      (1)   The property shall be offered at a public auction, unless the
property is claimed at any time by a recorded owner of the property.
      (2)   A bidder must be in good standing as determined by the enforcement
authority or by the receiver acting as the enforcement authority's designee.
The receiver may establish minimum qualifications for bidders, investigate a
bidder's qualifications and ability to rehabilitate the property, and
prequalify bidders before holding an auction. A person prohibited from bidding
at an auction held under I.C. 6-1.1-24-6.1 may not bid at a receiver's auction
held under this section.
      (3)   The receiver may establish a minimum bid for the auction.
      (4)   Notice of the auction must be given by publication and such other
means as determined by the receiver at least 30 days before the auction.
      (5)   The receiver may cancel the auction at any time and for any reason.
The auction may be rescheduled as determined by the receiver.
      (6)   The receiver may impose any reasonable conditions upon the sale.
   (J)   After the transfer of title to the purchaser, the receiver shall serve
a notice on all persons who, before the transfer, had a known or recorded
substantial property interest in the property. The notice must contain the
following information:
      (1)   The fact of the transfer and the purchase price paid;
      (2)   The order in which the proceeds of the sale are to be applied as
described in division (K);
      (3)   Instructions for submitting a claim;
      (4)   The date by which a claim must be submitted, which may not be less
than 90 days after the date the notice is served; and
      (5)   If the receiver takes reasonable steps but is unable to locate a
person entitled to notice under this division, the receiver may serve the
notice by publication. Any proceeds from the sale remaining after all claims
have been paid shall be deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund.
   (K)   The proceeds of the sale shall be applied in the following order:
      (1)   Current year taxes of not to exceed $2,500;
      (2)   The receiver's expenses, including administrative expenses, and
costs of sale;
      (3)   Any additional current year taxes in addition to the limit set in
division (K)(1), delinquent taxes and penalties, unpaid fees and fines issued
by the enforcement authority, and special assessment accrued on the property;
      (4)   Any liens on the property in their order of priority; and
      (5)   Any remaining money shall be paid to the divested owner.
   (L)   The issuing authority of the special assessments may choose to waive
the special assessments and not collect them.
   (M)   A deed executed under this section vests in the grantee an estate in
fee simple absolute, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances created or
suffered before or after the sale except those liens granted priority under
federal law and the lien of the state or a political subdivision for taxes and
special assessments that accrue after the sale. However, subject to division
(N) below, the estate is subject to the following:
      (1)   All easements, covenants, declarations, and other deed restrictions
shown by public records.
      (2)   Laws, ordinances, and regulations concerning governmental police
powers, including zoning, building, land use, improvements on the land, land
division, and environmental protection.
      (3)   Liens and encumbrances created or suffered by the grantee.
   (N)   A deed executed under this section:
      (1)   Does not operate to extinguish an easement recorded before the date
of the sale in the office of the Owen County Recorder, regardless of whether
the easement was taxed separately from the real estate; and
      (2)   Conveys title subject to all easements recorded before the date of
the sale in the office of the Owen County Recorder.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.25 COURT ORDER AUTHORIZING PERFORMANCE OF WORK; JUDGMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   A court acting under §
156.19 may authorize the Department, acting through its enforcement authority,
to cause the action required by the order to be performed by a contractor
licensed and qualified under law, if it is shown that:
      (1)   An order was issued to each person having a substantial property
interest in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   Each of the orders has been affirmed or modified at a hearing in
such a manner that all persons having substantial property interest in the
unsafe premises that are the subject of the orders are currently subject to an
order requiring substantially identical action;
      (3)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with;
      (4)   The building that is the subject of the order is an unsafe
building, or if the property is subject of the order is an unsafe premises; and
      (5)   The order is not being reviewed under §
156.10.
   (B)   If the enforcement authority requests permission to cause the action
required by the order to be performed by a contractor, all persons having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party
defendants.
   (C)   The cost of the work and the processing expenses incurred by the
enforcement authority computed under §
156.14, may, after a hearing, be entered by the court as a judgment against
persons having a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.26 EMERGENCIES; COURT ORDER AUTHORIZING ACTION TO MAKE PREMISES SAFE;
JUDGMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   A court acting under §
156.19 may set a hearing to be held within ten days after the filing of a
complaint alleging the existence of unsafe premises presenting an immediate
danger to the health and safety of the surrounding community sufficient to
warrant emergency action. Upon a finding at the hearing in favor of the
Department, the court may:
         (a)   Permit the enforcement authority to cause the action necessary
to make the premises safe to be immediately performed by a contractor licensed
and qualified under law;
         (b)   Permit the enforcement authority to cause the action necessary
to make the premises safe to be immediately performed by a contractor licensed
and qualified under law after the defendants have had a reasonable time, as
established by the court, to make the unsafe premises safe and have failed to
complete the necessary action; or
         (c)   Grant a mandatory injunction relative to the unsafe premises
that would require a defendant who has an interest in the premises that allows
the defendant to take corrective action to immediately make the premises safe.
      (2)   In granting relief under division (A)(1)(b) or (c) above, the court
shall set a date certain for the completion of the necessary action and shall
hold a hearing within ten days after that date to determine whether the
necessary action has been completed.
   (B)   The issuance of an order concerning the unsafe premises is not a
prerequisite to permission by the court to cause action to be performed on the
unsafe premises. If an order has been issued concerning the unsafe premises, it
does not prevent the permission by the court to cause action to be performed on
the unsafe premises.
   (C)   If the enforcement authority requests authority to cause action on the
unsafe premises to be performed by a contractor, all persons having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party
defendants.
   (D)   The cost of accomplishing the work may, after a hearing, be entered by
the court as a judgment against persons having a fee interest, life estate
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.27 CHANGE OF VENUE AND JUDGE.
   A change of venue may not be allowed in an action filed under §§
156.10,
156.15 or
156.19, but a change of judge shall be allowed in the same manner as is
provided for other civil matters.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.28 PRIORITY OF ACTIONS.
   An action filed under §§
156.10 and
156.19 takes precedence over other pending litigation, and shall be tried and
determined by the court at as early a date as possible.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.29 MANNER OF SERVING NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without a
specified date, notice of a statement that public bids are to be let, and
notice of claims for payment must be given by:
         (a)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by registered or
certified mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the
person to be notified, with return receipt requested;
         (b)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified;
         (c)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or
usual place of abode of the person to be notified and sending by first class
mail a copy of the order or statement to the last known address of the person
to be notified; or
         (d)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by first class mail to
the last known address of the person to be notified.
      (2)   If a notice described in division (A)(1)(a) above is returned
undelivered, a copy of the order or statement must be given in accordance with
division (A)(1)(b), (c), or (d) above.
   (B)   (1)   If service is not obtained by a means described in division (A)
and the hearing authority concludes that a reasonable effort has been made to
obtain service, service may be made by publishing a notice of the order or
statement in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the county where the unsafe premises
are located. However, publication must be made two times, at least one week
apart:
         (a)   With each publication of notice in a newspaper in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the county where the unsafe premises are located; or
         (b)   With the first publication of notice in a newspaper described in
division (B)(1)(a) and the second publication of notice:
            1.   In accordance with I.C. 5-3-5; and
            2.   On the official web site of the county where the unsafe
premises are located.
      (2)   The second publication must be made at least three days before an
event described in division (A). If service of an order is made by publication,
the publication must include the information required by §
156.06(B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(4), (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7), and (B)(9), and must also
include a statement indicating generally what action is required by the order
and that the exact terms of the order may be obtained from the enforcement
authority. The hearing authority may make a determination about whether a
reasonable effort has been made to obtain service by the means described in
division (A) on the basis of information provided by the Department (or, in the
case of a consolidated city, the enforcement authority). The hearing authority
is not required to make the determination at a hearing. The hearing authority
must make the determination in writing.
   (C)   When service is made by any of the means described in this section,
except by mailing or by publication, the person making service must make an
affidavit stating that the person has made the service, the manner in which
service was made, to whom the order or statement was issued, the nature of the
order or statement, and the date of service. The affidavit must be placed on
file with the enforcement authority.
   (D)   The date when notice of the order or statement is considered given is
as follows:
      (1)   If the order or statement is delivered personally or left at the
dwelling or usual place of abode, notice is considered given on the day when
the order or statement is delivered to the person or left at the person's
dwelling or usual place of abode.
      (2)   If the order or statement is mailed, notice is considered given on
the date shown on the return receipt, or, if no date is shown, on the date when
the return receipt is received by the enforcement authority.
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of the second
day that publication was made.
   (E)   A person with a property interest in an unsafe premises who does not:
      (1)   Record an instrument reflecting the interest in the Recorder's
office of the county where the unsafe premises is located; or
      (2)   If an instrument reflecting the interest is not recorded, provide
to the Department in writing the person's name and address and the location of
the unsafe premises; is considered to consent to reasonable action taken under
this chapter for which notice would be required and relinquish a claim to
notice under this chapter.
   (F)   The Department may, for the sake of administrative convenience,
publish notice under division (B) at the same time notice is attempted under
division (A). If published notice is given as described in division (B), the
hearing authority shall subsequently make a determination about whether a
reasonable effort has been made to obtain service by the means described in
division (A).
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.30 RECORDING OF ORDERS, STATEMENTS OF RESCISSION, STATEMENTS OF PUBLIC
BIDS, AND RECORDS OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall record in the office of the county
recorder orders issued under §§
156.06(A)(6),
156.06(A)(7),
156.07(A), or
156.09. If the enforcement authority records an order issued under §§
156.06(A)(6),
156.06(A)(7),
156.07(A), or
156.09, statements of rescission issued under §
156.08(B), statements that public bids are to be let under §
156.13, and records of action in which the order is affirmed, modified, or
rescinded taken by the hearing authority under §
156.08 shall be recorded. The recorder shall charge the fee required under I.C.
36-2-7-10 for recording these items.
   (B)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that are the subject
of a recorded order takes that interest, whether or not a hearing has been
held, subject to the terms of the order and other documents recorded under
division (A) and in such a manner that all of the requirements of §§
156.12,
156.13, and
156.19 through
156.26 relating to the issuance of orders, service of orders and affirmation of
orders are considered satisfied. If a hearing has been held, the interest is
taken subject to the terms of the order as modified at the hearing, in other
documents recorded under division (A) above, and in such a manner that all of
the requirements of §§
156.12,
156.13, and
156.19 through
156.26 relating to the issuance of orders, service of orders, and modification
of orders at hearing are considered satisfied.
   (C)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises, that are the
subject of a recorded statement that public bids are to be let, takes the
interest subject to the terms of the statement and in such a manner that the
notice of the statement required by §
156.13 is considered given to the person.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.31 TRANSFERS OF PROPERTY BY PERSONS NOT COMPLYING WITH ORDERS.
   A person who has been issued and has received notice of an order relative to
unsafe premises and has not complied with that order:
   (A)   Must supply full information regarding the order to a person who takes
or agrees to take a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises before
transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest; and
   (B)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to transfer a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises, supply the enforcement
authority with written copies of:
      (1)   The full name, address, and telephone number of the person taking a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises; and
      (2)   The legal instrument under which the transfer or agreement to
transfer the substantial property interest is accomplished.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.32 ORDER OF ACTION RELATED TO UNSAFE PREMISES; WRITTEN INFORMATION
REQUIRED.
   (A)   This section applies to a person if:
      (1)   An order is issued to the person under this chapter requiring
action related to an unsafe premises:
         (a)   Owned by the person and leased to another person; or
         (b)   Being purchased by the person under a contract and leased to
another person;
      (2)   A hearing on the order was not requested under §
156.06(B)(6), or, if a hearing was requested, the order was affirmed at the
hearing; and
      (3)   Either:
         (a)   The order is not being reviewed under §
156.10; or
         (b)   After review by the circuit court, the court entered a judgment
against the person.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) must provide to the Department (or,
in the case of a consolidated city, the enforcement authority) in writing the
person's name, street address (excluding a post office box address), and phone
number.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   A person who commits the following commits a Class C infraction. Each day
that the violation continues constitutes a separate offense:
   (A)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order made
under this chapter;
   (B)   Knowingly interferes with or delays the carrying out of an order made
under this chapter;
   (C)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this chapter; or
   (D)   Fails to comply with §
156.31.
(BC Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-7-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   VACATIONS AND ROAD-RELATED REGULATIONS
   
II.   FRANCHISES
   
III.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
   
IV.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
   
V.   PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: VACATIONS AND ROAD RELATED REGULATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.      Date Passed Description
                               Vacating County Road 200S in Section 36,
BC Ord. 1998-20    - -         Washington Township and an undesignated roadway
                               in Sections 32 and 33, Franklin Township.
                               Vacating County Road 60N, running between S.R.
BC Res.            12-22-2000  246 and County Road 1050W (also known as Humpty
                               Dumpty Road).
BC Ord. 2002-52    2-7-2002    Temporary closing of County Road 150W.
BC Ord. 2009-15    8-17-2009   Vacating a portion of Splinter Ridge Road.
BC Ord. 2009-16    8-17-2009   Vacating an alleyway in Coal City.
                               Vacating a portion of a public thoroughfare
BC Ord. 2009-19    11-12-2009  located in Section 11, Township 9 North, Range 6
                               West.
BC Ord. 2012-19    12-3-2012   Vacating a portion of Straightline Roadway in
                               Lafayette Township.
BC Ord. 2013-0002  4-15-2013   Vacating alleyways in Coal City.
BC Ord. 2013-00010 11-18-2013  Vacating alleyways in Coal City.
BC Ord. 2015-0008  4-6-2015    Vacating a section of Old S.R. 42.
BC Ord. 2017-11    11-6-2017   Vacating a portion of Wells Road in Jefferson
                               Township.
                               Vacating an 15-foot by 240-foot long alley
BC Ord. 2019-003   3-4-2019    between parcels 601109300360111022 and
                               301109300360110022 in Vandalia.
BC Ord. 2019-0013  7-15-2019   Vacating roadway in Whitehall. 2020-0062
2020-0062          12-7-2020   Establishing the county Highway Department
                               annual road maintenance and improvement plan.
2020-063           12-7-2020   Establishing the county Highway Department snow
                               and ice control policy.
                              
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed Description
                            Approving the transfer and assignment by Alliance
BC Res. 2001-44 11-29-2001  Communications Partners LP to Insight
                            Communications Midwest LLC of the franchise to
                            operate a cable television system in the county.
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed Description
BC Res. 16       10-27-2004  Approving a guaranteed energy savings contract.
                             Interlocal agreement between the county and the
BC Ord. 2018-001 5-21-2018   Town of Spencer relating to information technology
                             services.
 
TABLE IV: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
CC
Ord.  11-10- Establishing an economic revitalization area as follows:
2008- 2008
39
             1.   Highway 46 East/43 South (Township 10, Range 3, Sections 21, 22, 23, 25,
             26, 27, 34 and 35; and Township 9, Range 3, Sections 2, 3 and 10);
             2.   Highway 46 West (Township 10, Range 3, Sections 19 and 20; and Township 10,
             Range 4, Sections 13 and 24);
             3.   Highway 231 North (Township 12, Range 3, Sections 19, 20, 28, 29, 32 and
             33; and Township 11, Range 3, Sections 4, 5, 8 and 9);
             4.   Highway 67 North (Township 11, Range 2, Sections 21, 28, 29, 30 and 31; and
             Township 11, Range 3, Sections 25, 26, 27, 33, 34, 35 and 36);
             5.   Highway 67 South (Township 10, Range 3, Sections 29, 30 and 31; and
             Township 9, Range 4, Section 10); and
             6.   Highway 246 West (Township 10, Range 6, Sections 23, 24, 25 and 26).
CC
Res.  4-8-   Establishing an economic revitalization area for 3720 State Highway 43, Spencer,
2019- 2019   Indiana.
006
 
TABLE V: PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed Description
CC Ord. 1985-4   3-19-1985   Authorizing the sale of two acres located in the
                             Town of Spencer, Lots 131 and 132.
                             Rescinding CC Ord. 1985-4, authorizing the sale of
BC Ord. 1988-2   3-7-1988    two acres located in the Town of Spencer, Lots 131
                             and 132.
                             Transferring interest in Parcel No. 60-17-10-500-
BC Res. 2024-009 7-17-2024   080.000-016 from the county to the Owen County
                             Redevelopment Commission.
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                         10.04
1-1-1-7                         10.12
1-1-1-8                         10.06
1-1-4-5                         10.05
1-1-5-1                         10.11
1-1-6-1                         10.08
1-2-7-1(b)(1)(2)                90.58
3-6-4.2-14                      39.122
3-11-8                          34.03
3-11-15                         34.03
4-13-1.7                        38.018
4-13-17                         38.001
4-13.6-6-2.5                    38.020
4-21.5                          156.15
4-21.5-1-9                      111.001 ,
                                112.02
4-21.5-3-7                      151.046
4-22-2                          156.06
5-2-11-5                        35.051
5-3-1 et seq.                   38.004,
                                38.020
                                35.015,
                                38.018,
                                38.019,
                                38.035,
                                38.037,
                                38.055,
5-3-1                           38.076,
                                50.15,
                                155.087,
                                155.177,
                                155.197 ,
                                156.08,
                                156.29
5-3-1-2                         155.295,
                                155.313
5-3-1-4                         155.295,
                                155.313
5-3-5                           156.29
5-4-1-10                        39.031
5-4-1-18(c)                     39.031
5-4-1-18(h)                     39.031
5-11-1-27(e)                    31.006,
                                36.03
5-11-4-3                        30.022
5-11-10-1.6                     30.031
5-11-13-1                       39.005
5-11-14-1                       39.122
5-13-8                          30.035,
                                35.048
5-13-9                          30.035
5-14-1-18(i)                    39.031
5-14-1-18(j)                    39.031
5-14-1.5 et seq.                31.073
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.              155.256
5-14-3                          155.331,
                                155.332
5-14-3-1 et seq.                155.256,
                                155.292
5-14-3-3(d)                     30.100
5-14-3-3.6(c)(2)                35.004
5-14-3-3.6(e)                   35.004
5-14-3-8(g)                     40.004
5-14-3-8(h)                     35.004
5-14-3-8.3                      35.004
5-16-6-1                        38.072
5-16-13                         38.072
                                38.002,
5-22                            38.037 ,
                                39.005
5-22-3-5                        38.019
5-22-9 et seq.                  38.020
5-22-10-10                      38.016
5-22-15-16                      38.020
5-22-15-18                      38.021
5-22-15-19                      38.021
5-22-15-20                      38.021
5-22-15-23                      38.021
5-22-15-23.5                    38.021
5-22-15-24                      38.021
5-22-18-2                       38.019
5-22-22 et seq.                 37.02
5-22-22-4.5                     37.02
5-22-22-8                       37.02
5-22-22-9                       37.02
5-23                            38.001
5-26.5-2                        30.065
5-28-28.5-7                     30.010
5-28-28.5-7(a)                  30.010
6-1.1-12.5-4                    53.01
6-1.1-23-5(b)                   30.022
6-1.1-24                        30.022 ,
                                156.03
6-1.1-24-6.1                    156.24
6-1.1-25-1                      30.022
6-1.1-25-3                      30.022
6-1.1-26-6                      30.022
6-1.1-35-3                      39.122
6-1.1-35.2-3                    39.122
6-1.1-37-10                     30.011
6-1.1-37-10(F) and (G)          30.011
6-1.1-41                        35.015
6-3-1                           36.30
6-3-2-2.8                       111.037
6-3.5 et seq.                   36.15
6-3.5-4                         36.61,
                                36.62
6-3.5-5                         36.62
6-3.5-5-4                       36.61
6-8.1-8-3                       35.045
6-9-18-3                        31.005,
                                36.45
8-1-23-2                        94.008
8-1-32.5-3                      30.010
8-17-8-1                        152.18
8-17-8-2                        152.19
8-17-8-3                        152.21
8-23-1-33                       70.19
Title 9                         73.21
9-13-2-1                        94.008
9-13-2-60(2)                    73.15
9-17                            70.60,
                                70.61
9-17-2-12                       70.62
9-18                            90.56
9-18.1-14-1 et seq.             73.17
9-18.1-14-5                     73.17
9-20-1-3(a)(2)                  70.17
9-20-4-1                        70.71,
                                Ch. 74, Sch. II
9-20-4-1(b)(3)                  70.72,
                                Ch. 74, Sch. II
9-20-5                          70.71,
                                Ch. 74, Sch. II
9-20-7-1                        70.70,
                                Ch. 74, Sch. II
                                70.71,
9-20-7-2                        70.72,
                                Ch. 74, Sch. II
9-20-7-3                        70.73,
                                Ch. 74, Sch. II
9-21-9-2                        71.16
9-21-9-4                        71.17
9-21-20-1                       70.15
9-21-20-2                       70.15
9-21-20-3                       70.15
9-25 et seq.                    73.18
9-26-9-2                        70.15
9-30-3                          71.20
Title 10, Article 14, Chapter 3 31.002
10-14-3-1 et seq.               31.002
10-14-3-7                       31.036
10-14-3-11                      31.036
10-14-3-17                      31.002
10-14-3-17(d)(2)                31.002
10-14-3-25                      35.001
11-8-8-21                       40.045
11-12-2-4                       31.023
13-1-5.7-1                      155.051
13-11-2-106                     50.15
13-11-2-158                     50.15
13-11-2-205                     50.15
13-11-2-209                     50.15
13-13-1                         50.15
13-13-2                         50.15
13-17-12-6                      10.99
13-19                           50.15,
                                50.16
13-21-1                         50.15
13-21-5                         50.15
13-21-13                        50.15
13-22-1 through 13-22-8         50.15
13-22-13 through 1-22-14        50.15
Title 14                        73.21
14-16-1-25                      73.99
14-16-1-29                      73.99
14-16-1-30                      73.17
14-28-1                         153.069
14-28-1-26                      153.069
16-18-2-110                     70.15
16-20-1-6                       112.12
16-20-1-10                      111.077 ,
                                112.16
16-20-1-25                      111.075 ,
                                112.15
16-20-1-25(c)                   112.15
16-20-1-26                      111.053
16-20-1-27                      111.035 ,
                                112.11
16-20-2                         31.035
16-20-2-3                       31.037
16-20-2-4                       31.038
16-20-2-8                       31.041
16-20-2-10                      31.042
16-20-2-11                      31.043
16-20-2-12                      31.044
16-20-2-14                      31.045
16-20-2-15                      31.046
16-20-2-16                      31.047
16-20-8-5                       111.054
16-20-8-6                       111.057
16-20-25                        31.039
16-22                           70.15
16-41-16-4                      50.15
16-42-1-6                       111.015
16-42-1-13                      111.053
16-42-5-23                      111.053
16-42-5-30                      111.037
20-47-2                         38.001
20-47-3                         38.001
Title 22                        91.06
22-3-2 et seq.                  39.121
22-9-1-4 et seq.                93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                93.01
22-9.5-2-2                      93.02
22-9.5-2-3                      93.02
22-9.5-2-4                      93.02
22-9.5-2-8                      93.02
22-9.5-2-9                      93.02
22-9.5-2-11                     93.02
22-9.5-2-13                     93.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.                93.11
22-9.5-3                        93.03
22-9.5-4-8                      93.10
22-9.5-5                        93.02
22-9.5-5-1                      93.03
22-9.5-6                        93.02,
                                93.11
22-12                           151.046
22-12-1 et seq.                 151.003
22-12-1-3                       151.003
22-12-1-4                       151.003 ,
                                151.021
22-12-1-5                       151.003
22-12-1-5(a)(1)                 151.021
22-12-1-5(a)(2)                 151.021
22-12-1-6                       151.003
22-12-1-7                       151.003
22-12-1-11                      151.003
22-12-1-12                      151.003
22-12-1-13                      151.003
22-12-1-14                      151.003
22-12-1-15                      151.003
22-12-1-16                      151.003
22-12-1-17                      151.003
22-12-1-18                      151.003
22-12-1-18.7                    151.003
22-12-1-19.1                    151.003
22-12-1-22                      151.003
22-12-1-22(b)(12)               151.061
22-12-1-23                      151.003
22-12-1-26                      151.003
22-12-7 et seq.                 151.005
22-13                           151.046
22-13-2-3(b)                    151.060
22-13-2-6                       151.004
22-13-2-7                       151.046
22-13-2-7(b)                    151.060
22-13-2-9                       151.004
22-13-2-11                      151.005
22-14                           151.046
22-15                           151.046
22-15-3                         151.021
22-15-4                         151.004
24-4-16.4-2                     91.06
25-4                            38.001,
                                38.042
25-4-1                          38.001
25-14                        31.039
25-21.5                         38.001
25-23                           31.039
25-26                           31.039
                                31.039,
25-31                           38.001,
                                38.042
25-31-1                         38.001
25-37-1 et seq.                 110.01
25-38.1                         31.039
25-39-4-1                       95.03
26-2-7 et seq.                  30.011
27-2-15                         156.15
31-25-1-1                       30.065,
                                30.066
31-37-1-2                       31.051
31-37-2-1                       31.051
32-33-10                        70.42
33-36-3 et seq.                 90.99
33-37-4-2                       40.032
33-37-5                         40.004,
                                40.032
33-37-7-2(c)                    35.051
33-37-7-8(e)                    35.051
33-37-8-6                       35.052
33-38-9-7                       39.122
33-39-6-1                       39.122
33-40-3                         31.053
33-40-7-5                       31.053
33-40-7-11                      31.055
34-28-2                         30.066
34-28-5                         71.20,
                                90.58
34-28-5-1                       40.032,
                                112.15
34-28-5-2                       111.076
Title 35                        73.21
35-41-1-6                       31.051
35-45-4-1(d)                    91.06
35-47-2                         73.20
35-47-2-2                       73.20
36-1                            30.001
36-1-2 et seq.                  35.017
36-1-2-6                        38.001
36-1-2-13                       38.001
36-1-2-23                       39.005
36-1-3                          30.001
36-1-3-2                        30.001
36-1-3-4                        30.021,
                                155.004
36-1-3-8                        30.001
36-1-3-8(a)(9)                  10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                 40.032
36-1-5-4                        151.060,
                                151.061
36-1-6-2                        40.032,
                                90.58
36-1-6-2(a)                     90.58
                                39.018,
36-1-6-4                        40.032,
                                90.04,
                                151.045
36-1-6-9                        151.046
36-1-8-3                        35.052
36-1-8-5                        35.002
36-1-8-7(a)                     30.066
36-1-8-5.1                      35.002
36-1-8.5                        30.066
36-1-8.5  et seq.               30.066 ,
                                30.068
36-1-8.5-3                      30.065
36-1-8.5-4                      30.065
36-1-8.5-4.5                    30.065
36-1-8.5-5                      30.065
36-1-8.5-7                      30.066
36-1-8.5-7(d)                   30.066
36-1-8.5-9                      30.069
36-1-8.5-10(b)                  30.066
36-1-8.5-11                     30.070
36-1-8.5-12                     30.068
36-1-8.5-25                     30.065
36-1-10                         38.001
36-1-12                         39.005
36-1-12-2                       38.001
36-1-21-2                       39.005
36-1-21-3                       39.005
36-1-21-4(b)                    39.005
36-1-21-6                       39.005
36-2-2 et seq.                  30.021
36-2-2-4(e)                     34.02
36-2-2-4 (f)                    34.02
36-2-2-4(g)   34.02          34.02
36-2-3-4(e)                     34.02
36-2-3-4 (g)                    34.02
36-2-3-4(h)                     34.02
36-2-3-4(j)                     34.02
36-2-3-4.7                      34.02
36-2-5-2(b)                     35.045
36-2-5-3                        39.030
36-2-6 et seq.                  30.021
36-2-6-2                        30.030,
                                39.032
36-2-6-3                        30.022
36-2-6-4                        30.031
36-2-6-4(d)                     30.031
36-2-6-4.5(b)(1) through (12)   30.022
36-2-6-4.5(b)(13)               30.023
                                30.022,
36-2-6-4.5(c)                   30.023 ,
                                36.04
                                30.022,
36-2-6-4.5(d)                   30.023 ,
                                36.04
36-2-6-5                        30.032
36-2-6-6                        30.033
36-2-7-10                       40.004,
                                156.30
36-2-7-10(c)                    40.017
36-2-7-10(c)(1)                 40.017
36-2-7-10(c)(5)                 40.017
36-2-7-10(c)(6)                 40.017
36-2-7-10(c)(10)                40.017
36-2-7-10.1                     30.005,
                                30.100
36-2-7-10.1(h)                  30.005
36-2-9-18(d)                    40.015
36-2-13-5.5                     35.048
36-7-3                          155.230
                                153.001,
36-7-4                          155.230,
                                155.245,
                                155.280
36-7-4-1 et seq.                155.004
36-7-5.1                        155.230
36-7-8-9                        151.046
36-7-9 et seq.                  156.19
36-7-9-2                        40.032
36-7-10.1                       90.99
36-7-10.1-3                     90.04
36-7-10.1-4                     90.04
                                31.070,
                                31.073,
36-7-14 et seq.                 31.075,
                                31.076,
                                31.078
36-7-14-6.1                     31.074
                                156.06,
36-7-37                         156.10,
                                156.24
36-8-16.7-9                     40.060
36-8-16.7-10                    40.060
36-8-16.7-19                    40.060
36-8-17                         151.041
36-9-14.5-6                     35.065
                                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Editor’s note:
“CC” denotes legislation passed by the County Council.
* denotes legislation passed by both the Board of the Commissioners and the
County Council.
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
–         12-22-2000  TSO I
CC          1-8-2001    30.003
2001-44     11-29-2001  TSO II
2001-46     11-29-2001  30.004
2002-49     2-7-2002    31.001
2002-50     2-7-2002    150.15
CC 2004-1   2-9-2004    35.002
16          10-27-2004  TSO III
2005-3*     3-7-2005    30.050,
                        30.051
2005-8*     5-16-2005   34.03
2006-1      1-3-2006    40.046
2006-17     9-18-2006   37.01
2007-10     3-26-2007   39.045
2007-27     7-17-2007   155.085,
                        155.097
                        155.013,
2007-28     7-17-2007   155.027,
                        155.045
2007-32     8-20-2007   39.045
2007-60     12-14-2007  39.045
2007-61     12-17-2007  39.045
2008-33     9-15-2008   40.046
2008-41     11-17-2008  39.045
2008-42     12-15-2008  39.045
2009-0002   2-13-2009   39.045
2009-08     10-5-2009   30.085 -
                        30.087
CC 2009-17  11-9-2009   30.009
CC 2011-12  5-9-2011    31.003
2012-08     5-21-2012   39.045
2012-09     5-21-2012   39.045
2012-16     11-5-2012   39.045
2014-0003   1-10-2014   39.045
2014-0009   7-21-2014   40.095
2014-00010  10-6-2014   39.060 -
                        39.067
2015-003    1-20-2015   39.045
2019-001    - -2019     30.002
2019-006    4-8-2019    TSO IV
2020-0018   2-3-2020    30.002
2020-0019   2-18-2020   37.06
2020-0021   2-1-2020    30.030 -
                        30.033
2021-03     1-4-2021    30.030 -
                        30.034
2021-08     1-19-2021   30.035
2021-11     2-1-2021    37.06
CC 2021-20  6-28-2021   39.004
2021-21     7-6-2021    31.006
2021-22     7-19-2021   39.005
2022-018    12-5-2022   150.15
CC 2023-006 6-12-2023   TSO IV
2023-07     6-21-2023   37.08
CC 2023-008 7-10-2023   TSO IV
CC 2023-12  10-2-2023   TSO IV
2024-009    7-17-2024   TSO V
                       
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Editor’s note:
“CC” denotes legislation passed by the County Council.
* denotes legislation passed by both the Board of the Commissioners and the
County Council.
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed   Code Section
CC –         - -           39.030
CC 1988-4      - -           40.047
1998-20        - -           TSO I
1973-1         5-7-1973      71.03,
                             71.99
                             50.30 -
1979-1         6-18-1979     50.32,
                             50.99
1979-3         11-5-1979     35.015
82-1           3-1-1982      32.15 -
                             32.23
1982-2         4-5-1982      114.01 -
                             114.14
–            8-2-1982      39.001
                             94.001 -
1982-4         9-20-1982     94.022,
                             94.999
CC 1986-1      1-7-1985      39.032
CC 1985-4      3-19-1985     TSO V
CC 1986-2      5-5-1986      36.16
CC 1986-3      9-2-1986      39.032
CC 1           - -1987       40.047
CC 1987-2      9-8-1987      36.02
1988-2         3-7-1988      TSO V
1988-5*        7-5-1988      35.052
1988-7         12-23-1988    50.34
                             152.01 -
                             152.04,
                             152.15 -
1-1990         6-25-1990     152.21,
                             152.35,
                             152.36,
                             152.99
1991-11        2-3-1991      31.035
1991-1         2-19-1991     71.03
1991-2         5-13-1991     35.065
                             52.01 -
1991-3         5-28-1991     52.07,
                             52.99
1991-5         6-24-1991     50.01
91-6           10-28-1991    50.15 -
                             50.18
CC 1991-7      11-4-1991     40.060 -
                             40.066
1991-8         11-12-1991    35.050
1991-10        11-12-1991    70.60 -
                             70.64
1991-11a       11-25-1991    35.051
1991-12        12-23-1991    35.050
1992-1         2-3-1992      31.020 -
                             31.024
1992-2         2-18-1992     37.05
1992-3         3-2-1992      Ch. 74, Sch. I
1992-5         3-16-1992     30.007
1992-12        9-21-1992     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1992-14        12-21-1992    94.035
1993-5         4-26-1993     90.45
1993-6         4-26-1993     40.003
1993-4         4-29-1993     35.018
1993-9*        10-12-1993    50.17
1993-11        11-8-1993     50.45,
                             50.99
1993-12        12-6-1993     40.002
1994-2         1-4-1994      Ch. 74, Sch. I
1994-1         1-31-1994     Ch. 75, Sch. I
1994-7         6-6-1994      32.15,
                             32.21
1994-8         6-20-1994     35.065
1994-13        11-21-1994    31.001
1994-16        11-21-1994    Ch. 75, Sch. II
1995-1         1-17-1995     94.008,
                             94.999
1995-4         3-24-1995     35.049
1995-6         4-10-1995     Ch. 75, Sch. I
1995-7         5-8-1995      32.36
1995-8         5-22-1995     50.33
1995-11        7-11-1995     71.02
1995-10        8-28-1995     72.01,
                             72.99
1995-12        9-11-1995     39.095 -
                             39.102
                             95.01 -
1995-13        9-25-1995     95.03,
                             95.99
                             154.01 -
1995-14        10-23-1995    154.11,
                             154.99
1995-16        11-6-1995     31.050 -
                             31.055
                             93.01 -
1996-1         3-11-1996     93.08,
                             93.10,
                             93.11
1996-7         6-17-1996     37.04
1996-8         7-22-1996     Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 1997-2      - -1997       40.017
                             36.60 -
CC 1997-4      6-16-1997     36.62,
                             70.01
CC 1997-9      7-1-1997      36.30
CC 1998-2      1-7-1998      36.30
1998-8         3-23-1998     30.001
1998-11        4-20-1998     Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 1998-2A     6-2-1998      36.61,
                             70.01
1998-15        8-10-1998     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1998-17        9-8-1998      150.02
1999-27        4-19-1999     150.02
1999-29        6-28-1999     32.15,
                             32.21
1999-30        7-26-1999     35.005
99-31          8-9-1999      Ch. 74, Sch. III
1999-32        8-9-1999      71.99
1999-33        8-9-1999      32.36
99-35          8-23-1999     Ch. 74, Sch. III
CC 99-39       9-13-1999     35.016
2000-3A        - -2000       52.03
2000-2         1-24-2000     35.015
2000-3         2-7-2000      52.03
2000-5         2-7-2000      52.21
2000-6         2-7-2000      52.20
2000-11        4- -2000      32.36
2000-16        7-24-2000     40.030
2000-20        9-1-2000      Ch. 74, Sch. III
2000-21        9-1-2000      Ch. 74, Sch. III
CC 2000-28     11-6-2000     39.032
2001-3         2-16-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-6         3-5-2001      Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 2001-7      3-5-2001      40.001
2001-9         3-5-2001      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-11        4-16-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-12        4-30-2001     31.001
2001-13        4-30-2001     39.080
2001-15        5-14-2001     71.01,
                             71.99
2001-17        5-25-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2001-19        6-13-2001     33.02
2001-20        6-13-2001     150.01
2001-21        7-11-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2001-22        7-11-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-23        7-11-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-24        7-11-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-25        7-11-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-30        9-12-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-31        9-12-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-32        9-12-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-33        9-12-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-34        9-12-2001     113.01,
                             113.99
2001-35        9-20-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-36        9-26-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-37        9-26-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-38        9-26-2001     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-41        10-11-2001    40.030
2001-42        10-11-2001    40.031
2001-47        12-12-2001    94.050,
                             94.999
                             90.01 -
2002-73        - -2002       90.04,
                             90.99
2002-54        1-23-2002     32.35
2002-52        2-7-2002      TSO I
2002-53        3-13-2002     37.03
2002-56        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-57        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-58        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-59        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-60        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-61        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-62        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-63        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-64        4-10-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2002-66        6-26-2002     31.001
2002-67        6-26-2002     40.030
2002-68        7-24-2002     40.030
–            11-8-2002     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2002-72        11-8-2002     35.030
                             155.001 -
                             155.013,
                             155.025 -
                             155.030,
                             155.045 -
                             155.051,
                             155.065 -
                             155.067,
                             155.080 -
                             155.123,
                             155.135 -
                             155.143,
                             155.155 -
                             155.164,
                             155.175 -
                             155.184,
                             155.195 -
–            1-22-2003     155.202,
                             155.215 -
                             155.217,
                             155.230,
                             155.231,
                             155.245 -
                             155.265,
                             155.280 -
                             155.297,
                             155.310 -
                             155.315,
                             155.330 -
                             155.333,
                             155.345 -
                             155.347,
                             155.360 -
                             155.363,
                             155.999
                             155.001 -
                             155.013,
                             155.025 -
                             155.030,
                             155.045 -
                             155.051,
                             155.065 - 155.071,
                             155.080 -
                             155.123,
                             155.135 -
                             155.143,
                             155.155 -
                             155.164,
                             155.175 -
                             155.184,
                             155.195 -
–            3-26-2003     155.202,
                             155.215 -
                             155.217,
                             155.230,
                             155.231,
                             155.245 -
                             155.265,
                             155.280 -
                             155.297,
                             155.310 -
                             155.315,
                             155.330 -
                             155.333,
                             155.345 -
                             155.347,
                             155.360 -
                             155.363,
                             155.999
2003-74        3-27-2003     33.01
–            5-28-2003     155.030
2002-76        6-11-2003     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2003-77        8-13-2003     35.047
2002-81        11-12-2003    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2003-78        11-12-2003    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2003-82        11-26-2003    73.01,
                             73.99
2004-2A*       2-11-2004     34.03
2004-4         2-25-2004     32.36
2004-8         4-14-2004     39.120 -
                             39.124
CC 2004-11     6-14-2004     39.032
2004-12        7-14-2004     Ch. 74, Sch. I
                             155.027,
2004-19        7-14-2004     155.030,
                             155.051,
                             155.182
2004-14        8-11-2004     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2004-15        9-8-2004      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2004-17        12-8-2004     31.002
CC 2005-6      5-9-2005      35.001
CC 2005-09     5-23-2005     36.30
2005-10        9-19-2005     71.03,
                             71.99
CC 2005-11     11-14-2005    40.061 -
                             40.066
                             111.001,
                             111.002,
                             111.015 -
                             111.024,
2005-16        11-21-2005    111.035 -
                             111.038,
                             111.050 -
                             111.057,
                             111.070 -
                             111.077
2005-17        11-21-2005    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2005-18        12-5-2005     40.016
                             155.087,
2006-6         3-6-2006      155.098,
                             155.197
CC 2006-14     6-12-2006     39.032
2006-18        11-6-2006     31.036
2006-19        11-20-2006    50.01
                             90.30 -
2007-2         1-12-2007     90.32,
                             90.99
2007-20        6-22-2007     30.100
2007-33        9-4-2007      40.080
2007-43        10-15-2007    40.080
2007-37*       11-14-2007    35.046
2007-52        12-3-2007     90.99
CC 2007-44     12-10-2007    31.004
2007-38        12-17-2007    32.01
2008-13        5-5-2008      110.01 -
                             110.04
2008-16        6-2-2008      40.080
CC 2008-17     6-9-2008      39.032
2008-31        9-2-2008      71.99,
                             Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 2008-38     11-10-2008    36.01
CC 2008-39     11-10-2008    TSO IV
CC 2009-001    2-9-2009      35.003
2009-11        6-15-2009     30.005
                             70.35 -
2009-10        7-20-2009     70.45,
                             70.99
2009-014       8- -2009      152.15 -
                             152.17
2009-014       8-17-2009     155.117,
                             155.363,
2009-15        8-17-2009     TSO I
2009-16        8-17-2009     TSO I
2009-06        9-8-2009      39.002
                             90.15 -
2009-07        9-9-2009      90.18,
                             90.99
CC 2009-9      10-12-2009    39.032
2009-19        11-12-2009    TSO I
                             70.15 -
                             70.18,
2011-10        3-7-2011      70.20,
                             70.21,
                             70.99
2011-15        6-20-2011     31.005
2011-018       7-18-2011     155.090
2011-17        8-8-2011      35.004
2011-20        9-7-2011      40.045
2011-21        9-7-2011      35.017
CC 2011-22     10-10-2011    39.032
                             39.015 -
2011-24        11-14-2011    39.018,
                             39.999
2012-01*       1-3-2012 BC    
              1-9-2012 CC   31.070 -
                             31.078
2012-19        12-3-2012     TSO I
2013-0002      4-15-2013     TSO I
2013-0003      6-3-2013      31.050 -
                             31.055
2013-04        6-3-2013      39.068
2013-05        6-3-2013      37.02
–            8-19-2013     40.032,
                             40.999
                             151.001 -
                             151.007,
                             151.020 -
                             151.025,
–            8-19-2013     151.040 -
                             151.046,
                             151.060,
                             151.061,
                             151.075,
                             151.999
2013-00010     11-18-2013    TSO I
                             153.001 -
                             153.004,
                             153.015,
                             153.030 -
                             153.038,
2014-0004      2- -2014      153.050 -
                             153.052,
                             153.065 -
                             153.072,
                             153.085 -
                             153.091,
                             153.999
2014-0009      7-21-2014     40.095
2014-00011     11-3-2014     30.020 -
                             30.022
2015-0005      4-6-2015      35.080
2015-0008      4-6-2015      TSO I
2015-0006      4-20-2015     35.045
                             92.01 -
2015-0009      5-18-2015     92.07,
                             92.99
2015-00011     6-1-2015      31.005
2015-00014     7-6-2015      51.01 -
                             51.10
CC 2015-00015  8-10-2015     39.030
CC 2015-00017  11-9-2015     36.15
2015-00018*    11-9-2015 CC  39.031
              11-16-2015 BC  
2015-0019      12-7-2015     Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 2015-0020   12-14-2015    39.030
2016-0005      1-4-2016      39.045
CC 2016-0001   1-11-2016     39.030
2016-0004      1-19-2016     39.045
2016-0008      3-21-2016     39.045
2016-0009      4-4-2016      34.02
2016-0010      4-4-2016      90.99
2016-000-18    6-27-2016     30.100
2018-005       - -2017       30.065 -
                             30.070
2017-02        2-6-2017      30.008
CC 2017-03     2-13-2017     30.035
2017-008       6-17-2017     39.003
2017-11        11-6-2017     TSO I
                             38.001 -
                             38.004,
                             38.015 -
                             38.019,
                             38.021,
                             38.035 -
2018-002       3-5-2018      38.044,
                             38.055 -
                             38.057,
                             38.070 -
                             38.078,
                             38.090 -
                             38.094
2018-003       4-16-2018     30.100
2018-004       4-16-2018     30.005
2018-001       5-21-2018     TSO III
2018-006       5-21-2018     53.01
2018-0013      10-2-2018     Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 2018-0015   10-9-2018     36.45
2018-0018      11-7-2018     Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 2018-002    12-17-2018    39.030
2019-003       3-4-2019      TSO I
                             96.01 -
2019-007       6-17-2019     96.05,
                             96.99
2019-009       6-17-2019     94.023
2019-0010      6-17-2019     40.015
                             94.065 -
2019-0012      7-15-2019     94.072,
                             94.999
2019-0013      7-15-2019     TSO I
2019-004       8-5-2019      10.99
2019-15        8-5-2019      31.090,
                             31.091
2019-0017      8-5-2019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-0018      8-5-2019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-0019      8-5-2019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-0020      8-5-2019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-0021      8-5-2019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-0023      8-5-2019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019–0022    8-15-019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019–0024    8-19-019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019–0025    8-19-019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019–0026    8-19-019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019–0027    8-19-019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019–0028    8-19-019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019–0029    8-19-019      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-0030      8-19-2019     35.048
                             38.003,
                             38.015,
2019-0031      9-16-2019     38.016,
                             38.019,
                             38.020
                             73.15 -
2019-0032      9-16-2019     73.22,
                             73.99
2019-0034      9-24-2019     31.090,
                             31.091
2019-0036      10-7-2019     30.008
2019-0035      10-10-2019    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-0044      11-4-2019     36.03
2019-0042      12-2-2019     37.20 -
                             37.24
                             91.01 -
2019-0041      12-16-2019    91.13,
                             91.99
2019-0050      12-16-2019    40.080
                             70.17 -
2019-0054      12-16-2019    70.19,
                             70.99
2018-0014      - -2020       Ch. 74, Sch. II
2020-008       1-6-2020      35.051
2020-0009      1-6-2020      94.999
2020-0010      1-6-2020      39.102
                             70.70 -
2020-0014      1-21-2020     70.74,
                             70.99
2020-0016      2-3-2020      30.023
2020-0023      10-5-2020     90.55 -
                             90.58
2020-0030      4-20-2020     38.003,
                             38.016
                             40.032,
2020-0031      4-20-2020     94.067,
                             94.072
2020-0036      5-18-2020     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-0037      6-1-2020      93.01 -
                             93.11
2020-0040      7-6-2020      31.050 -
                             31.055
2020-0042      7-20-2020     30.065 -
                             30.070
2020-046       9-8-2020      Adopting Ordinance
2020-0048      9-21-2020     30.010
2020-0049      10-5-2020     40.032,
                             40.999
2020-0050      9-21-2020     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-0051      9-21-2020     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-0052      9-21-2020     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-0053      9-21-2020     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-0054      9-21-2020     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-0055      9-21-2020     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-0056      11-2-2020     94.050 -
                             94.056
2020-0062      12-7-2020     TSO I
2020-0063      12-7-2020     TSO I
-              1-4-2021      39.045
-              1-4-2021      39.045
2021-003       2-1-2021      94.072
CC 2021-04     2-8-2021      37.07
2021-005       3-1-2021      40.095
                             31.035,
2021-06        3-1-2021      31.037 -
                             31.047
                             38.003,
2021-007       4-5-2021      38.015,
                             38.016
2021-008       4-19-2021     38.090 -
                             38.094
2021-009       4-19-2021     35.031
2021-12        7-19-2021     34.02
2021-015       8-2-2021      30.022,
                             30.023
2021-27        10-18-2021    94.071
2021-28        10-18-2021    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-29        11-1-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-32        11-1-2021     30.011
2021-33        11-1-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2021-034       11-1-2021     94.054
2021-35        11-1-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-36        11-1-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-37        11-1-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-38        11-1-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-41        12-6-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-42        12-6-2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
021-047        12-20-2021    Ch. 74, Sch. III
2022-005       1-18-2022     Ch. 74, Sch. I
CC 2022-008    2-14-2022     39.032
2022-09        2-17-2022     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2022-010       2-17-2022     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2022-012       3-7-2022      112.01 -
                             112.17
2022-014       4-18-2022     TSO I
CC 2022-016(A) 7-11-2022     39.032
2022-018       9-19-2022     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2022-019       9-19-2022     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2023-001       2-6-2023      Ch. 74, Sch. III
CC 2023-004    4-10-2023     40.004
2023-007       6-21-2023     53.01
                             71.10 -
2023-009       7-19-2023     71.20,
                             71.99
2023-011       7-19-2023     94.050
                             151.021,
                             151.023,
2023-014       10-2-2023     151.025,
                             151.040,
                             151.999,
                             155.363
2023-020       12-20-2023    37.40 -
                             37.42
                             156.01 -
2024-003       2-7-2024      156.32,
                             156.99
2024-008       4-3-2024      37.25
2024-013       6-5-2024      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2024-14        7-3-2024      31.090
2024-015       7-3-2024      156.03
CC 2024-016    7-8-2024      36.45
                            
 
