TOWN OF PAOLI, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23;
Res. 2024-04, passed 3-5-24; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2023 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1999-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF PAOLI, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, ADDING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
AND NEW GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF PAOLI, INDIANA, DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE TOWN OF
PAOLI:
Section 1.   The general ordinances and resolutions of the Town of Paoli as
revised, amended, restated, added, codified, and compiled in book form are
hereby adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Paoli, Indiana.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         Title I      General Provisions
         Title III   Administration   (including Schedule of Code and Ordinance
Bureau Violations)
         Title V      Public Works
         Title VII   Traffic Code
         Title IX   General Regulations
         Title XI   Business Regulations
         Title XIII   General Offenses
         Title XV   Land Usage
         Table of Special Ordinances
Section 3.   All prior ordinances and resolutions (not of a salutary nature)
pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed
repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance of this ordinance
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in such Code;
provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.   
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Paoli, Indiana, this 27th
day of October, 1999.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF PAOLI, INDIANA
                                                Faye Walls /s/
                                                President
ATTEST:
Carolyn N. Clements /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.13   Limitation periods
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Paoli shall be
designated as the Code of Paoli and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authorization of codification of ordinances, see I.C. 36-1-5-3
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted, amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing law refer to the new code numbers assigned to that law.
   (G)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Any editor's notes, cross-references or statutory references
following a section of this code is for reference purposes only, and is not a
part of the section.
   (H)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Paoli, Indiana.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Paoli, Indiana.
   COUNTY. Orange County, Indiana.
   HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
   MONTH. One calendar month.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the town.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
   TOWN. The Town of Paoli, Indiana.
   WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
   YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then such named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.13 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:   (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
   or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-
14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
      
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
36.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
37.   TOWN BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provision
   
30.01   Membership; election; term
Town Council Procedures
   
30.15   Docketing of documents
   
30.16   Dockets
   
30.17   Voting procedures
   
30.18   Agenda
   
30.19   Roll call vote
   
30.20   Suspension of rules
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Standing Committees
   
30.23   Control of meetings
   
30.24   Organization of Council
   
30.25   Quorum
   
30.26   Conflicts clause
   
30.27   Electronic meetings policy
Public Purchasing and Procurement Policy
   
30.40   Publication of notices
   
30.41   Receiving offers
   
30.42   Request for proposals
   
30.43   Special purchasing methods
   
30.44   Micro purchases (less than $10,000)
   
30.45   Small purchases ($10,000 - $150,000)
   
30.46   Purchases over $150,000
   
30.47   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
30.48   Purchase of services
   
30.49   Suspension and/or debarment of vendor when federal funds/federal
assistance involved
   
30.50   Purchasing agents for the town
Cross-reference:
   Anti-nepotism policies, see §§
34.09 and
34.10
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 MEMBERSHIP; ELECTION; TERM.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, the number of members of the Town Council
shall be increased from three to five members.
   (B)   The two new members shall be elected at large and be residents of any
part of the town.
   (C)   The existing three members of the Town Council shall continue to be
required to reside in each of the three districts now established and elected
at large by the voters of the whole town and shall serve four year terms.
   (D)   The two new at large members shall serve four year terms. The first
term for the new members shall begin at noon, January 1, 1996.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-16-93)
TOWN COUNCIL PROCEDURES
§ 30.15 DOCKETING OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   To be considered at any Town Council meeting, without the necessity of
suspending the rules, any ordinance, resolution, contract or other writing
requiring legislative action shall be filed in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer not later than the close of business on the fifth day prior to the
Town Council meeting at which it is to be considered.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall stamp each such document requiring Town
Council action with a legible date stamp reflecting the date such document was
docketed in that office; shall assign a docket number to the document; and
shall cause the document to be placed on the agenda of the Town Council meeting
for the Council’s consideration. A written statement in support or explanation
of such docketed item may be presented and should be filed simultaneously. Such
additional writing shall bear the same docket number as the document to which
it relates.
   (C)   All documents tendered to the Clerk-Treasurer for docketing shall be
tendered with an original and nine copies. Upon receipt and docketing of the
same, the Clerk-Treasurer shall retain the original in the record; shall cause
one copy of each such docketed matter to be distributed to each Council member,
the Town Manager and the Town Attorney within two working days; and post one
copy on the public bulletin board at the entrance to the Town Hall.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.16 DOCKETS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain the dockets described in this
subchapter, suitably indexed, as a permanent record of documents tendered for
Town Council action:
      (1)   Ordinance docket.
      (2)   Resolution docket.
      (3)   Contract docket.
      (4)   Miscellaneous docket.
   (B)   All documents logged upon a docket shall bear a prefix which
identifies the docket, the year in which the document is docketed and the
number assigned to such documents which shall be serial on such docket.
   (C)   The prefix foe each of the dockets shall be:
      (1)   Ordinance - ORD.
      (2)   Resolution - RES.
      (3)   Contract - CON.
      (4)   Miscellaneous - MISC.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.17 VOTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Ordinances.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-9.8, any ordinance being passed by the Town
Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which it is introduced
required a 2/3 vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent of the
members present to consider the ordinance.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-9.6, and other ordinances, a majority vote
of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance being considered for its
second time at a separate meeting on a separate day, unless a greater vote is
required by statute or by ordinance.
   (B)   Resolutions, contracts and miscellaneous.
      (1)   Resolutions, contracts and miscellaneous may be adopted on one
reading only if such resolution receives the unanimous affirmative vote of the
Town Council, upon a motion to adopt at first reading, at a meeting at which
not less than three members of the Town Council are present and voting.
      (2)   In all other cases, resolutions are deemed adopted after an
affirmative majority vote upon a motion to adopt after a second reading at the
next Town Council meeting.
   (C)   Reading defined. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRST READING. For all matters properly docketed pursuant to this
subchapter, a reading is accomplished by verbally reading the number, title or
name of the document and its docket number together with the date of docketing.
For all other matters requiring a reading, such reading shall be a
verbal verbatim reading of the document, without reference to its adoption or
attestation clauses, if so directed by the Council.
      SECOND READING. A verbal reading by name or title of the document only.
   (D)   Amendments and other changes. The amendment of any ordinance or change
in any resolution, contract or miscellaneous matter requires the same vote as
was originally required for passage.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.18 AGENDA.
   (A)   All items requiring action by the Town Council shall be placed upon
the agenda not later than 12:00 p.m. (noon) of the last business day preceding
the meeting at which such action is to be taken. A copy of the agenda shall be
provided to each Council member and posted on the public bulletin board at the
entrance to the Town Hall at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
   (B)   The agenda shall prescribe the order of business which shall generally
be conducted in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Roll call to establish quorum.
      (3)   Approval of previous minutes.
      (4)   Town Attorney’s report.
      (5)   Town Manager’s report.
      (6)   Clerk-Treasurer’s report.
      (7)   Committee reports.
      (8)   Old business.
      (9)   New business.
      (10)   Miscellaneous business.
      (11)   Comments by citizens on topics not listed on the agenda (three
minutes per speaker).
      (12)   Approval of claims.
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (C)   The presiding officer of a Council meeting may alter the order of the
agenda for the convenience of the Council.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97; Am. Ord. 1998-1, passed 3-2-98)
§ 30.19 ROLL CALL VOTE.
   All votes of the Town Council shall be roll call votes. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall call the roll on the question and record each Council member’s vote
separately in the minutes of the meeting.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.20 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of procedure set forth in this subchapter may be suspended, and
action taken which would otherwise contravene this subchapter, upon a unanimous
affirmative vote of the Town Council at a meeting at which at least four
Council members are present and voting.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The President of the Town Council shall call a special meeting of the Town
Council either upon the written request of any two Council members delivered in
writing and signed by them, or upon the President’s own determination. Such
request shall state the purpose for such meeting.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.22 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   There are hereby established three standing committees which shall be known
as the Committee on Finance, Committee on Personnel and the Committee on
Utilities and Public Works. Such committees shall consist of not more than two
members of the Town Council who shall serve as co-chairperson of the committee,
and such other persons as shall be selected by the Council to serve on such
committees. Such committees may conduct such investigation or hold such
hearings as they deem necessary regarding any matter before them and shall
report their recommendations, if any, to the Town Council on such matters.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.23 CONTROL OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The President of the Town Council shall open, control, limit and close
public comment on agenda matters.
   (B)   The President shall begin discussion of an agenda item and shall open
Council discussion of the item, should he or she choose to do so. Other Council
members shall continue discussion and comments after being recognized by the
President. After discussion by the Council members, the President may open
discussion to members of the public.
   (C)   Any member of the public wishing to speak on an agenda item must sign
up to speak on a sign- up sheet located at the entrance to the meeting room.
The preparation of the sign-up sheet is to allow the President to set a time
limit for each person signed up to speak in order that the Council will have
time to hear all points of view and to conduct all of the business on the
agenda. The time for each speaker, unless expanded by the President prior to
the start of discussion, shall be three minutes. Each speaker must be
recognized by the President prior to speaking. Each speaker may only speak once
unless a majority of the Council members present vote to expand public
discussion.
   (D)   Upon the completion of public discussion, additional discussion may be
made by members of the Town Council. Upon completion of this discussion, the
President shall call for a motion. If a motion is made and properly seconded,
the question shall then be voted upon.
   (E)   All members of the Town Council, including the President, are allowed
to make motions and to vote on all motions.
   (F)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-8, the Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of
the Town Council and whenever the Town Council has an even number of members,
for any reason, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-officio member for the purpose of
casting the deciding vote and break a tie.
   (G)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-10, an ordinance, order or resolution passed
by the legislative body is considered adopted when signed by the President of
the Town Council. Thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for
promulgating or publishing such ordinance, order or resolution, in the manner
required by law.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.24 ORGANIZATION OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall organize itself by the election of officers at
the first meeting held during each calendar year. The sitting President of the
Town Council shall conduct the election of officers. If there is no sitting
President, or Vice-President, then the members of the Town Council shall select
one of their members to chair the meeting.
   (B)   The officers of the Town Council, who shall hold their office for an
annual period, shall be as follows:
      (1)   President. The President shall be the town executive, and shall
have all authority and power vested in such executive by the laws of the state
or by this or any other ordinance.
      (2)   Vice-President. The Vice-President shall perform all of the acts
and duties of the President in the absence or disability of the President.
      (3)   Second Vice-President. The Second Vice-President shall perform all
of the acts and duties of the President in the absence or disability of the
President and Vice-President.
   (C)   In the event an officer resigns or dies, the Town Council shall elect
a successor to complete such officer’s term of office.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.25 QUORUM.
   (A)   A quorum is defined as a majority of the elected members of the
Council.
   (B)   In the event that less than a quorum of Town Council shall be present
for a regular or special meeting, such Council members as are present may, upon
the passage of 30 minutes after the designated time for the meeting to
commence, declare that no meeting shall commence for lack of a quorum. In such
event, all business on the agenda shall be transferred to the agenda for the
next meeting.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.26 CONFLICTS CLAUSE.
   The rules of procedure set forth in this subchapter are to define the
general procedures for the Town Council. These rules supersede all previous
rules to the extent they are in conflict therewith. Nothing contained in this
subchapter shall be construed to alter or amend any specific rule provided by
law or statute.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-8-97)
§ 30.27 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the "electronic meetings policy" of the
Town Council of the Town of Paoli, Indiana ("Town Council") and applies to the
Town Council and any committee appointed directly by this Town Council or its
presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E), any member may participate in
a meeting by any electronic means of communication that: (i) allows all
participating members of the governing body to simultaneously communicate with
each other; and (ii) other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows
the public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
(i) shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum; and (ii)
may participate in final action only if the member can be seen and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than a 50% of the meetings in a
calendar year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's
electronic participation is due to: (1) military service; (2) illness or other
medical condition; (3) death of a relative; or (4) an emergency involving
actual or threatened injury to persons or property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member's absence is due to: (1) military service; (2) illness or
other medical condition; (3) death of a relative; or (4) an emergency involving
actual or threatened injury to persons or property.
   (D)   The minutes of a meeting at which any member participates by
electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to: (1)
adopt a budget; (2) make a reduction in personnel; (3) initiate a referendum;
(4) impose or increase a fee; (5) impose or increase a penalty; (6) exercise
the Council's power of eminent domain; or (7) establish, impose, raise or renew
a tax.
   (F)   This resolution shall be effective from and after adoption by this
Council and compliance with I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 4-27-21)
PUBLIC PURCHASING AND PROCUREMENT POLICY
§ 30.40 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitations for bids.
      (1)   All notices of invitations for bids shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the local newspaper and in such other
publications as the purchasing agent may see fit in each set of circumstances.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice shall be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
   (B)   Requests for proposals.
      (1)   All notices of requests for proposals shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the local newspaper and in such other
publications as the purchasing agent may see fit in each set of circumstances.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice shall be published two times, at least one week apart.
The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (C)   Requests for specifications.
      (1)   All notices of requests for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the local newspaper and in such other
publications as the purchasing agent may see fit in each set of circumstances.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
specifications. The notice shall be published at least two times, at least one
week apart. The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the
date the responses will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing information.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.41 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers.
      (1)   The purchasing agent may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals or request for specifications.
      (2)   A purchasing agent may only receive an electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the governmental body’s best interests, the
purchasing agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that
the solicitation included information concerning the possibility of and
procedure for cancellation.
   (D)   Correction/withdrawal of bids. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination after a review of information available to him or her and
within 48 hours of receipt of the bid or proposal that there has been an
inadvertently erroneous bid or proposal, the purchasing agency may permit the
correction or withdrawal of the bid, or cancel awards or contracts based on
inadvertent bid or proposal mistakes; provided, however, the purchasing agency
will not permit changes in bid prices or other provisions of a bid prejudicial
to the interests of the governmental body or fair competition after bid
opening.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.42 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   When a purchasing agent makes a written determination that the use of
competitive sealed bidding is either not practical or not advantageous to the
governmental body, a purchasing agent may award a contract using a request for
proposals in accordance with I.C. 5-22-9.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.43 SPECIAL PURCHASING METHODS.
   A purchasing agent may make a purchase without soliciting bids or proposals
provided a special purchasing method is allowed in accordance with I.C. 5-22-
10.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.44 MICRO PURCHASES (LESS THAN $10,000).
   A purchasing agent (other than the Utility General Foreman) may purchase
supplies within a specific budget line item with an estimated cost of less than
$1,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes, proposals or
bids. The Utility General Foreman may purchase supplies within a specific
budget line item with an estimated cost of $2,500 or less on the open market
without inviting or receiving quotes, proposals or bids. However, the elected
Fiscal Officer of the town can authorize emergency operational expenses for the
town up to $5,000. If there is a vacancy in any department that has a
designated purchasing agent, the elected Fiscal Officer of the town can make
those purchases so that operations do not cease.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.45 SMALL PURCHASES ($10,000 - $150,000).
   (A)   Purchases between $25,000 and $150,000 require prior approval of the
purchasing agency (i.e., the Town Council) and a solicitation of three written
price quotations, if available. The purchase shall be made from the vendor
submitting the lowest quote unless justifiable circumstances exist to accept a
higher quote. A contract is required for purchases between $50,000 and
$150,000.
   (B)   Any purchase having the potential of obligating the town for more than
one payment must have prior approval of the purchasing agency (i.e., telephone
lines, machine leases, maintenance contracts, and the like).
   (C)   All purchases are subject to approved appropriations and availability
of funds.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.46 PURCHASES OVER $150,000.
   The purchasing agency shall issue an invitation for bids for purchases over
$150,000 and shall give notice of invitation for bids in the manner required by
I.C. 5-3-1.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.47 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.48 PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The Town Council determines that the purchasing agency may purchase
services in whatever manner it determines to be reasonable. The purchasing
agency may purchase services on the open market without inviting or receiving
quotes, proposals or bids, although it may use those methods if desired.
Individual purchasing agents are subject to this same policy, except no
services over $1,000 may be purchased without prior approval of the purchasing
agency (i.e., the Town Council) (other than the Utility General Foreman). The
Utility General Foreman may purchase services with an estimated cost of $2,500
or less on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes, proposals or
bids. However, the elected Fiscal Officer can authorize emergency operational
expenses for the town up to $5,000. If there is a vacancy in any department
that has a designated purchasing agent, the elected Fiscal Officer can make
those purchases so that operations do not cease.
   (B)   Any purchase having the potential of obligating the town for more than
one payment must have prior approval of the purchasing agency (i.e., telephone
lines, machine leases, maintenance contracts, and the like).
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.49 SUSPENSION AND/OR DEBARMENT OF VENDOR WHEN FEDERAL FUNDS/FEDERAL
ASSISTANCE INVOLVED.
   The following specific provisions are applicable under the purchasing policy
and procedure of the town for determining suspension and/or debarment status of
any vendor doing business with the Town Council for which federal funds and/or
federal assistance are being utilized by the town, namely:
   (A)   SAM search, verification by contracted vendor, or contractual
provision. Prior to any purchase for which federal funds and/or federal
assistance is being utilized by the town, the purchasing agency, or its
designee, shall:
      (1)   Examine and verify the status of any vendor participating in or to
be contracted for business with the town utilizing federal funds and/or federal
assistance for debarment and suspension status to determine whether such vendor
is qualified to participate. The check or verification for debarment and
suspension shall be performed using the System for Award Management (“SAM”), or
any similar such system as then currently approved for such purposes. The town
department responsible for facilitating, coordinating, and utilizing federal
funds and/or federal assistance will be required to conduct and complete the
SAM search, or its approved equivalent, as such procedures and methods are
amended, on all vendors with whom the town intends to conduct business
utilizing such federal funds. Further, the town or entity responsible shall
provide a hard copy proof and verification of each SAM search, or its approved
equivalent search, which will be required to be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer
for maintenance and record keeping in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   Require each contracted vendor that is utilizing federal funds and/
or federal assistance to certify that the contracted vendor was not suspended
or debarred; or
      (3)   Add a clause to appropriate contract to ensure that the contracted
vendors were not suspended or debarred.
   (B)   No business with debarred or suspended entity. It is specifically
directed and required that the town will not conduct any business with any
firm, individual, or entity which has been identified and verified as having
been debarred or suspended for such purposes, in conformance with applicable
law, as the same may be amended from time to time. Further, these policy
requirements for determination of suspension and/or debarment status of any
vendor doing business with the town in which federal funds and/or federal
assistance is utilized shall pertain to “Covered Transactions” under 2 C.F.R.
pt. 180 subpt. B, which include those government contracts for goods and
services awarded under a non-procurement transaction (e.g., grant or
cooperative agreement) that are expected to equal or exceed $25,000, or meet
certain other specified criteria.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
§ 30.50 PURCHASING AGENTS FOR THE TOWN.
   Pursuant to the town public purchasing and procurement policy, the following
individuals, in addition to the Town Council, are hereby designated as
purchasing agents for the various departments to serve until replaced by the
Town Council.
   Departments      Designated Purchasing Agents
   Clerk            Clerk-Treasurer
   Police            Police Chief or Assistant Police Chief
   Fire            Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief
   Parks            Park Director
   Street            Utility General Foreman or Department head
   Electric         Utility General Foreman or Department head
   Water/Sewer         Utility General Foreman or Department head
   Buildings and Grounds   Utility General Foreman or Department head
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed
4-4-23; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-8-23)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Town Manager
   
31.01   Position established
   
31.02   Appointment
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Duties, powers and responsibilities
   
31.05   Desirable knowledge, skills, abilities and experience
TOWN MANAGER
§ 31.01 POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a new position in the town to be titled Town
Manager, with his or her duties and salary to be established solely by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 3-3-20)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire Town
Council then holding office, and for such compensation as the Town Council
shall determine.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 3-3-20)
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Town Council may remove the Town Manager at any time by a majority vote
of the entire Town Council then holding office.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 3-3-20)
§ 31.04 DUTIES, POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Town Manager shall have the following duties, powers and
responsibilities:
   (A)   To administer and enforce all policies, directives, laws adopted by
the Town Council; to oversee the administration of all municipal departments,
except the police and town office personnel and operation; and to review
departmental procedures and to determine that recommendations are carried out.
   (B)   To act as business manager for the town under the direction of the
Town Council.
   (C)   To administer town personnel rules, policies and procedures;
appointments of employees and remove employees of the town consistent with the
approved employee manual; and to make appointments and remove department heads
of the town subject to the prior approval of the Town Council except the police
and town office personnel.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall follow all directives in the employee manual,
unless they are in conflict with this chapter or by Town Council action. The
Town Manager shall receive the same benefits received by other employees, plus
the use of a town vehicle.
   (E)   To prepare annual operating and capital improvement budgets for all
municipal departments under his or her control and submit them to the Town
Council for their possible changes and/or approval and be responsible, after
approval, for the administration and implementation of the budgets. To prepare
periodic reports as directed by the Town Council.
   (F)   To prepare semi-annual written reports describing progress to date and
accomplishments, including problems and solutions for the town affairs and
suggestions for future improvements in town operations for more efficient
operations, together with constructive criticisms.
   (G)   To initiate investigations and conduct inquiries related to citizen
complaints concerning the conduct of employees and the quality of municipal
services; and to speak before public and private groups to explain the
functions and operations of the town's government.
   (H)   To recommend to the Town Council a standard pay schedule of pay for
each employee of the town, including minimum and maximum pay rates of pay, and
to recommend periodic merit, promotion and services increases.
   (I)   To attend all meetings of the Town Council unless excused therefrom
and to take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Town
Council, but with no right to vote.
   (J)   To attend meetings of the town committees and commissions when
requested and available.
   (K)   To act as one of the town's purchasing agents in accordance with the
town's procurement policy; to administer purchasing activities and supervise
procedures, as approved by state law and recommendations and approved policies
of the Indiana State Board of Accounts; and to approve purchases for operating
supplies only that are less than $5,000. All other purchases must have prior
approval of the Town Council.
   (L)   To coordinate and direct all town services; to undertake studies in
the manner in which such services are provided; and to make recommendations to
the Town Council for changes in the types and quality of services provided.
   (M)   To perform related work to all of the above, and such other duties as
required by ordinance or resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 3-3-20)
§ 31.05 DESIRABLE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, ABILITIES AND EXPERIENCE.
   Desirable knowledge, skills, abilities and experience for the Town Manager
is encouraged and includes but is not limited to the following: have the
knowledge of principles of public administration and of the grant process and
public finance; experience as a Town Manager with a degree in business of five
years proven experience and training; and proven executive and administrative
qualifications with respect to controlling and supervising the operations,
personnel and functions of a municipality.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 3-3-20)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Senior Citizens Board
   
32.10   Board created
Plan Commission
   
32.20   Plan Commission established
Local Board of Aviation Commissioners
   
32.30   Composition
   
32.31   Term of members
   
32.32   Election of officers
Department of Redevelopment
   
32.45   Establishment
   
32.46   Governance
   
32.47   Commission members
   
32.48   Qualifications
   
32.48   Non-voting advisors
   
32.49   Management of funds
Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.65   Paoli Municipal Volunteer Fire Department established
   
32.66   Fire Chief
   
32.67   Active Volunteer Firefighter
   
32.68   By-laws
   
32.69   Membership
   
32.70   Rules governing membership
   
32.71   Officers
   
32.72   Elections
   
32.73   Meetings
   
32.74   Committees
   
32.75   Charges for certain fire services
Cross-reference:
   Standing Committees (Finance, Personnel and Utilities & Public Works), see §
30.22
SENIOR CITIZENS BOARD
§ 32.10 BOARD CREATED.
   In anticipation of the new senior center to be constructed, and upon its
completion, the town will create a Senior Citizens Board. The town will appoint
members to the Senior Citizens Board, which will be charged with the governing
of the seniors’ activities and the operation and maintenance of the senior
center.
(Res. 2006-08, passed 9-19-06)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.20 PLAN COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Paoli Plan Commission under the
authority of I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
   (B)   The Plan Commission, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-207, shall consist of
seven members as follows:
      (1)   The Town Council shall appoint three persons who must be elected or
appointed officials or employees of the municipal government to hold office
during and for the term of their office with the government;
      (2)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint four citizens as
members of the Commission, not more than two of whom shall be members of the
same political party. Two of the four members shall be appointed for a term of
three years, and two for a term of four years. The terms shall expire on
January 1 of the third and fourth years, respectively, following their
appointment. Thereafter, as terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a
term of four years; and
      (3)   If the town exercises jurisdiction outside its incorporated area
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-205, the executive of the county in which the
unincorporated area is located shall appoint two additional citizen members to
the municipal Plan Commission. The citizen members must reside in the
designated unincorporated area and shall not be of the same political party.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-97)
LOCAL BOARD OF AVIATION COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.30 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Local Board of Aviation Commissioners shall be composed of four
members. The Town Council shall select the members of the Boards. To be
eligible to be a member of the Board, a person must:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Be a resident of Orange County; and
      (3)   Not be actively engaged or employed in commercial aeronautics.
   (B)   Not more than two members of the Board shall be of the same political
party.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 3-26-01)
§ 32.31 TERM OF MEMBERS.
   Upon the establishment of a Local Board of Aviation Commissioners, the terms
of the members initially appointed shall be one, two, three and four years.
Thereafter, as a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year
term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday of January, but an appointee
shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 3-26-01)
§ 32.32 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a president
and vice president. The vice president shall have authority to act as president
of the Board during the absence or disability of the president.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 3-26-01)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 32.45 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment of the Town of
Paoli, Indiana (the “town”) which shall be entitled to exercise all the rights,
powers, privileges, and immunities accorded to such department by I.C. § 36-7-
14, as amended (the “Redevelopment Act”).
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-17-11)
§ 32.46 GOVERNANCE.
   The Department of Redevelopment of the town shall be under the control of a
board of five voting members to be known as the Paoli Redevelopment Commission.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-17-11)
§ 32.47 COMMISSION MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a board to be known as the Paoli Redevelopment
Commission (the “Commission”). Three of the members of the Commission shall be
appointed by the President of the
Town Council (the “Council President”) and two shall be appointed by the Town
Council of the Town. Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year
from the first day of January after his or her appointment and until his or her
successor is appointed and has qualified, except that the original
Commissioners shall serve from the date of their appointment until the first
day of January in the second year after their appointment. If a vacancy occurs,
a successor shall be appointed in the same manner as the original Commissioner
and the successor shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
   (B)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her duties
shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by law to be
indorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (C)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before taking his or her duties,
shall execute a bond payable to the State of Indiana (the “state”), with surety
to be approved by the Council President. The bond must be in a penal sum of
$15,000 and must be conditioned on the faithful performance that may come into
his or her hands or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall be
paid by the special taxing district.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-17-11)
§ 32.48 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Redevelopment Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by
the laws of the state as from time to time amended and shall qualify as therein
provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the
duties and obligations conferred and imposed by Redevelopment Act, including,
but not limited to, the following qualifications:
   (A)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least eighteen 18 years of age
and must be a resident of the town. If a Redevelopment Commissioner ceases to
be qualified under this section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
   (B)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the town shall receive a salary; but
such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (C)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in any
contract. Employment, purchase or sale made under such provisions of this
subchapter and the underlying statutes. However, any property required for
redevelopment purposes in which a Redevelopment Commissioner has a pecuniary
interest may be acquired, but only by give or condemnation. A transaction made
in violation of this Section of this subchapter is void.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-17-11)
§ 32.48 NON-VOTING ADVISORS.
   The Redevelopment Commission shall also have one non-voting advisor who is
appointed by the Council President (the “advisor”). The Advisor must also be a
member of the school board of a school corporation that includes all or part of
the territory served by the Redevelopment Commission. The advisor is not
considered a member of the Redevelopment Commission, but is entitled to attend
and participate in the proceedings of all meetings of the Redevelopment
Commission. The advisor is not entitled to a salary, per diem, or reimbursement
of expenses. The advisor shall serve for two years from the first day of
January after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the original advisor shall serve from
the date of his or her appointment until the first day of January in the second
year after his or her appointment.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-17-11)
§ 32.49 MANAGEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town charged by law for the performance of duties
in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same duties
with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of Redevelopment,
except as otherwise provided for in the Redevelopment Act.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-17-11)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.65 PAOLI MUNICIPAL VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the Town of Paoli, Indiana, a Municipal
Volunteer Fire Department for the purpose of protecting the public from loss or
injury by fire or other casualty.
   (B)   The Department shall be known as the Paoli Municipal Volunteer Fire
Department (hereinafter referred to as the "Department" or the "Paoli Municipal
Volunteer Fire Department").
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.66 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Paoli Town Council shall appoint a Fire Chief and shall fix his or
her compensation. Members of the Paoli Municipal Volunteer Fire Department may
recommend at least two individuals for fire chief to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and is
subject to the minimum basic training requirements found at I.C. 36-8-10.5-6.
   (C)   The Paoli Municipal Volunteer Fire Department shall be administered
and supervised by the Fire Chief, who shall act with the advice and consent of
the Paoli Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.67 ACTIVE VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER.
   The Town Council shall semi-annually pay required compensation, car
allowance, insurance and clothing allowance as provided for in I.C. 36-8-12 for
up to 15 active volunteer firefighters, providing such volunteers are certified
by the Fire Chief of the Department as having met all of the following
requirements:
   (A)   (1)   Attendance at 33% of each of the following:
         (a)   Fire and related alarms;
         (b)   Work details; and
         (c)   Training meeting meetings;
      (2)   Attendance exceeding the minimum in one category may be used in
another category, but no category may be less than 25%. Credit will be given
for attendance at a fire or related alarm if the volunteer remains at the
station and assists with truck preparation when it returns, although it will
not be necessary to remain if the volunteer must return or report to work;
   (B)   They reside within ten miles of the Paoli town limits or work full
time in Paoli at a job they may leave for alarms;
   (C)   They have taken and passed a physical examination during the last two
years or more often, if required by the Fire Chief;
   (D)   They have taken and passed a mandatory drug test and background check.
Furthermore, they shall submit to future drug tests as required by the Fire
Chief; and
   (E)   They have acquired and maintained an acceptable level of proficiency
and knowledge of fire fighting practices, as determined by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.68 BY-LAWS.
   The following by-laws are created for the establishment of good government
and sound administration of this Department.
   (A)   All articles to be accepted will require a majority vote of members
present at a regular meeting.
   (B)   The by-laws and all additions to the by-laws will be presented to the
Town Council of Paoli, Indiana for its approval, and are not effective without
approval.
   (C)   Any amendments to these by-laws or additions to these by-laws will
require a two-thirds vote of the members present at the regular May by-laws
meeting, and approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.69 MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership of this Department shall be divided into three types: active,
associate and probationary trainee.
   (A)   The membership of this Department shall be limited to 15 active
members and as many probationary trainees as deemed necessary by the Fire
Chief.
      (1)   Active firefighters shall have full voting rights and will be
eligible to hold elective offices in this Department.
      (2)   To remain active, members must meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Attendance at 33% of each of the following:
            1.   Fire and related alarms;
            2.   Work details;
            3.   Training meetings; and
            4.   Attendance exceeding the minimum in one category may be used
in another category, but no category may be less than 25%. Credit will be given
for attendance at a fire or related alarm if the volunteer remains at the
station and assists with truck preparation when it returns, although it will
not be necessary to remain if the volunteer must return or report to work.
         (b)   That they reside within ten miles of Paoli town limits or work
full time in Paoli at a job they may leave for alarms;
         (c)   That they have taken and passed a physical examination during
the last two years or more often, if required by the Fire Chief;
         (d)   That they have taken and passed a mandatory drug test and
background check. Furthermore, they shall submit to future drug tests as
required by the Fire Chief;
         (e)   That they have acquired and maintained an acceptable level of
proficiency and knowledge of firefighting practices, as determined by the Fire
Chief;
         (f)   All members will work together in harmony and strive for the
betterment of the Department;
         (g)   To respond to all fire alarms and calls of the Chief or his or
her assistants as far as possible; and
         (h)   To assist in keeping the Department and all of the equipment
clean and in good operating condition.
      (3)   Excusable reasons for not participating will be sickness, death in
family, working schedules, vacations or others approved by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Associate members are those active members who have chosen to become
inactive in Department functions or those who can no longer serve as active
members due to circumstances such as (but not limited to) illness, physical
handicaps, military duty or working handicaps.
      (1)   Associate members may attend all meetings and be active in all
Department functions other than actual firefighting.
      (2)   Associate members will not have voting powers, but will have a
floor voice at all business meetings.
      (3)   Associate members will be eligible for appointed office such as
committee chairmen and the like.
      (4)   Associate members shall be known as active firefighters upon the
direction and by being declared so by the ranking officer in charge at a fire.
      (5)   Associate members may become active members in the event of an
active membership vacancy if approved by the majority of members present at a
regular meeting.
      (6)   When active members go associate, they will be compensated for the
entire six month compensation period.
      (7)   When active members go associate, they will remain as associate
members either indefinitely or until a request is heard from said member to be
deleted from the associate membership roll.
   (C)   Probationary trainees will be those who have made application, on the
prescribed forms, and have been accepted by the majority of the active members
present at a regular meeting. Applicants shall not be present on the day of
voting on their membership. The vote will be by secret ballot.
      (1)   To be eligible for application, the applicant must be over the age
of 18, of sound mind, physically fit, and a resident of the Town of Paoli,
Indiana, or reside within ten miles of Paoli town limits or work full-time at a
job in Paoli which they may leave for fire alarms.
         (a)   Applicants 21 or older will be shown preference.
         (b)   All applicants must have a high school education or equivalent.
      (2)   All applicants must furnish a statement of physical fitness signed
by a licensed M.D. to meet Fire Department standards.
      (3)   Probationary trainees will be required to participate in a nine
month training program covering various phases of firefighting and first aid
practice. He or she will then be eligible for an active membership vote
whenever a vacancy occurs. Probationary trainees must be 18 years of age in
order to be eligible for active membership.
      (4)   Probationary trainees may attend all business meetings and
Department functions. They will not have voting rights but will have a floor
voice.
      (5)   In the event of two or more trainees becoming eligible for an
active membership vote, the one showing the greatest amount of interest such as
regular attendance and willingness to learn and participate will be considered
first.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.70 RULES GOVERNING MEMBERSHIP.
   Any member who fails to do the duties prescribed for members shall forfeit
their right to membership of the Department.
   (A)   Acts of insubordination and/or defamation of the Department shall be
controlled by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Whenever the Fire Chief, after just consideration, terminates a
member, they must present their claims at a regular business meeting. The
member shall have die right to be heard. After all discussion by the Fire Chief
and the said member, in front of all members present at a regularly scheduled
meeting when it will be voted upon by all members present in the absence of the
said member. The Fire Chief’s decision will be overturned only if at least
three-fourths of the members voting are in favor of revoking the termination.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.71 OFFICERS.
   Officers of this Department shall include Chief, Assistant Chief, First
Captain, First Lieutenant and Secretary/Treasurer.
   (A)   The Chief shall be executive officer of the Department in complete
charge of all fires, meetings and functions.
   (B)   The Assistant Chief will be in command in the absence of the Chief.
   (C)   The First Captain, or in his absence, the First Lieutenant will be in
command in the absence of the superior officers.
   (D)   The Secretary and/or Treasurer shall keep minutes of meetings, handle
correspondence, disperse all monies and maintain an accurate bookkeeping
system. All checks will be signed by the Treasurer.
   (E)   Any member who has been in active membership in good standing for at
least the 12 month period prior to elections will be eligible for nomination
and election to any office, with the exception of Chief. The Chief must be
chosen from the roll of officers who have served during the preceding four
years.
   (F)   All terms of office will run from January 1 until December 31.
   (G)   The officers will be appointed by the Chief. Initial appointments are
by the Chief. After one year, the Chief may extend the appointment for one year
or remove the officer. A two-thirds vote of the members will reinstate the
removed officer after the officer the officer has served in the position for
two consecutive years.
   (H)   In the event a vacancy occurs in the ranks of the elected officers, a
special election shall be held to fill the vacancy at the next regularly
scheduled meeting after the vacancy occurs, with majority rules prevailing.
Nominations will be open from the floor.
   (I)   Any office with no nominees will be filled by appointment by the Fire
Chief for the upcoming year.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.72 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Nominations will be held at the regular November business meeting.
   (B)   Voting on the nominations will be at the regular December business
meeting.
   (C)   The election of officers will be conducted by active members of the
Department who may or may not vote at their discretion.
   (D)   All officers shall be elected by secret ballot, majority will rule.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.73 MEETINGS.
   (A)   There shall be at least one business meeting each month and as many
training meetings deemed necessary by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The regular business meeting shall be on every Tuesday of each month
at 6:30 p.m.
   (C)   Called meetings shall be at the discretion of the Chief or his or her
assistants.
   (D)   Parliamentary procedure shall rule at all meetings.
   (E)   There will be no monetary dues or assessments levied.
   (F)   Any changes in the by-laws will be put in the form of a written motion
presented at the April meeting and voted on at the May meeting. The motions
shall be posted in the fire station, by the Secretary, for the perusal of the
membership between the April and May meetings. Approval of the Town Council is
required.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.74 COMMITTEES.
   There will be one standing committee.
   (A)   A Membership Investigating Committee consisting of the Assistant Chief
and two active members appointed by the Chief shall investigate prospective
members and present their findings at the time of the vote.
   (B)   The Chief will be a member of all committees and appoint all
committees.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
§ 32.75 CHARGES FOR CERTAIN FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   The following charges shall be made for services rendered by the Paoli
Municipal Volunteer Fire Department, unless the property is located within the
town limits, within a township with which the town has a contract or within a
county with which the town has a mutual aid agreement:
      (1)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck or a fire
apparatus, including a hazardous material response unit, or a fire rescue unit
dispatched on a fire or hazardous material incident, $250 per response vehicle
except a command/control vehicle, which is $100 per vehicle.
      (2)   For each hour or fraction thereof of on-scene assistance, $150 per
response unit and $50 per command/control vehicle;
      (3)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials, emulsifiers
or other agents used in cleanup operations, the actual replacement cost of
those materials; and
      (4)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel or contaminated materials
resulting from a
spill, the actual cost of removal and disposal at an authorized locations.
   (B)   The Paoli Municipal Volunteer Fire Department or its agent may
maintain a civil action to recover an unpaid service charge under this section
and may, if it prevails, recover all costs of the action, including reasonable
attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-19-17)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Promotional expenses
   
33.02   Adoption of Capital Improvement Plan
   
33.03   Charge for bad checks
   
33.04   Accident report fee
   
33.05   Vehicle inspection fee
   
33.06   Handling fee on materials supplied by the town
   
33.07   Identity theft prevention program
   
33.08   Advance payments
   
33.09   Capital asset policy
Economic Revitalization Areas
   
33.20   Economic Development Commission to receive applications
   
33.21   Form of application
   
33.22   Application fee; disposition of fee
   
33.23   Submission and consideration of applications
   
33.24   Expiration of designation
   
33.25   Limitations and scope of subchapter
   
33.26   Decision by Town Council
Funds
   
33.35   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.36   Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund
   
33.37   Park Debt Reserve Fund
   
33.38   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.39   Tax Increment Finance (TIF) Fund
   
33.40   Community Outreach Fund
   
33.41   Vehicle Unlock Fund
   
33.42   Reserve Officer Fund
   
33.43   Local Public Safety Income Tax Distribution Fund
   
33.44   Buy Money Program Fund
   33.45   Opioid Settlement Funds—Restricted and Unrestricted
Cross-reference:
   Anti-nepotism policy; contracts, see §
34.10
   Public purchasing and procurement policy, see §§
30.40 et seq.
   Tax abatements, see
T.S.O. IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PROMOTIONAL EXPENSES.
   Whereas certain actions or intended actions of the Town Council are for the
best interests of the town, and a written enabling ordinance authorizing such
actions is appropriate, the Town Council may hereby budget and appropriate
funds form the General Fund of the town to pay the expenses of and to reimburse
town officials as the case may be for expenses incurred in promoting the best
interests of the town. Such expenses may include, but not necessarily be
limited to, rental of meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards,
expense incurred in interviewing job applicants, expenses incurred in promoting
industrial, commercial, and residential development, expenses incurred in
developing relations with other units of government, expenses incurred in
developing the morale of town employees, including the provision of ice, cola
machines, concessions, items such as hams and turkeys on holidays, and any
other expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the Town Council to
be in the best interest of the town.
(Ord. 1990-7, passed 7-16-90)
§ 33.02 ADOPTION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The state General Assembly has authorized counties to impose a county
economic development income tax (“EDIT”) imposed on the adjusted gross income
of county taxpayers, in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-7 (“Act”).
   (B)   The Orange County Council has imposed an EDIT on Orange County at a
rate or 0.25% annually on the adjusted gross incomes of county taxpayers.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, the town is a recipient of a distributive share
of EDIT and receives its distributive share semi-annually in May and November
from the County Auditor.
   (D)   The Act provides that a county, city or town which fails to adopt a
capital improvement plan may not receive:
      (1)   Its fractional amount of the certified distribution of revenues
from EDIT; or
      (2)   Any amount of EDIT revenues designated for its use by another city
or town in the county.
   (E)   The town now desires to use its net distributive share of the
certified distribution of revenues from EDIT to finance certain projects as
authorized by the Act.
   (F)   The town may use its net distributive share to finance capital
projects for which general obligation bonds may be issued and economic
development projects, as defined in the Act, through the issuance of bonds or
through lease financing.
   (G)   Under the Act, the projects will be economic development projects if
the town determines that they will:
      (1)   Promote significant opportunities for the gainful employment of its
citizens;
      (2)   Attract a major, new business enterprise to the town; or
      (3)   Retain or expand a significant business enterprise within the town;
and
      (4)   Involve expenditures for the acquisition of land, interests in
land, site improvements, infrastructure improvements, buildings, structures,
machinery, equipment, furnishings or facilities, or administrative expenses
associated with a project, including contract payments to a not-for-profit
corporation whose primary purpose is to assist government in planning and
implementing economic development projects.
   (H)   The Town Council hereby adopts the following economic development
income tax capital improvement plan for the town for the calendar years 2019,
2020 and 2021, beginning January 1, 2019, and ending December 31, 2021:
      (1)   Orange County Economic Development Partnership   10%;
      (2)   Paoli Volunteer Fire Department Inc   40%;
      (3)   Paoli Municipal Airport   40%;
      (4)   Park   5%;
      (5)   Paoli Senior Citizens   5%
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 8-21-96; Am. Ord. 1997-4, passed 4-21-97; Am. Res. 2003-
02, passed 5-20-03; Am. Res. 2003-03, passed 5-20-03; Am. Res. 2005-01, passed
2-1-05; Am. Res. 2008-02, passed 1-22-08; Am. Res. 2019-02, passed 7-16-19)
§ 33.03 CHARGE FOR BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section for a person to issue or
deliver a check, draft or an order on a credit institution for the payment of
or to acquire money or other property of the town knowing that it will not be
paid or honored by the credit institution upon presentment in the usual course
of business.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall pay a bad check fee to the town of
$20 per check. Further, whoever violates this section shall be prohibited from
presenting any further checks to the town and the town may refuse to accept a
check from the violator thereafter.
(Ord. 1987-5, passed 11-2-87; Am. Ord. 2000-1, passed 5-3-00)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose, see I.C. 36-1-3
§ 33.04 ACCIDENT REPORT FEE.
   The fee charged for the preparation of an accident report shall be $10 and
shall be deposited into the Local Police Education Fund.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 6-4-13)
§ 33.05 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   There be and hereby is authorized and imposed commencing on and after
June 4, 2013 a fee of $5 for each inspection of a vehicle, watercraft, or
trailer by an Officer of the Paoli Police Department in connection with an
application for a certificate of title.
   (B)   Effective date. The fees herein imposed shall be charged and collected
from and after June 4, 2013.
   (C)   Collection of fees. The Chief of the Police Department shall be
responsible for collecting the fees herein established and the Chief shall keep
an accurate record of each inspection made and fee collected. Each person
paying a fee as herein established shall be given a written receipt for the
same. All money collected as herein provided shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer shall be deposited in the Local Police Continuing Education Fund.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-2-13)
§ 33.06 HANDLING FEE ON MATERIALS SUPPLIED BY THE TOWN.
   A 15% handling fee plus sales tax will be charged on materials supplied by
the Town of Paoli to any person.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-5-11)
§ 33.07 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   This plan is intended to identify red flags that will alert our
employees when new or existing accounts are opened using false information,
protect against the establishment of false accounts, provide methods to ensure
existing accounts were not opened using false information, and recite measures
to respond to such events.
      (1)   Contact information. The senior management person responsible for
this plan is:
            Name: Mark Jones
            Title: Town Council President
            Phone Number: 812-723-2739
      (2)   The governing body members are:
         (a)   Gary Barnett;
         (b)   William Windhors;
         (c)   Jerry Meadows; and
         (d)   Bob Gilliatt.
   (B)   Risk assessment. The Town of Paoli has conducted an internal risk
assessment to evaluate how at risk the current procedures are at allowing
customers to create a fraudulent account and evaluate if current (existing)
accounts are being manipulated. This risk assessment evaluated how new accounts
were opened and the methods used to access the account information. Using this
information the utility was able to identify red flags that were appropriate to
prevent identity theft:
      (1)   New accounts opened in person.
      (2)   New accounts opened via telephone.
      (3)   New accounts opened via fax.
      (4)   New accounts opened via web.
      (5)   Account information accessed in person.
      (6)   Account information accessed via telephone (person).
      (7)   Account information is accessed via telephone (automated).
      (8)   Account information is accessed via web site.
      (9)   Identity theft occurred in the past from someone falsely opening a
utility account.
   (C)   Detection (red flags). The Town of Paoli adopts the following red
flags to detect potential fraud. These are not intended to be all-inclusive and
other suspicious activity may be investigated as necessary.
      (1)   Fraud or active duty alerts included with consumer reports.
      (2)   Notice of credit freeze provided by consumer reporting agency.
      (3)   Notice of address discrepancy provided by consumer reporting
agency.
      (4)   Inconsistent activity patters indicated by consumer report such as:
         (a)    Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
         (b)   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
         (c)   A material change in use of credit; and
         (d)   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
      (5)   Identification documents appear to be altered.
      (6)   Photo and physical description do not match appearance of
applicant.
      (7)   Other information is inconsistent with information provided by
applicant.
      (8)   Other information provided by applicant is inconsistent with
information on file.
      (9)   Application appears altered or destroyed and reassembled.
      (10)   Personal information provided by applicant does not match other
sources of information (e.g., credit reports, social security number not issued
or listed as deceased).
      (11)   Lack of correlation between the social security number range and
date of birth.
      (12)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity
(e.g., address or telephone number provided is same as that of a fraudulent
application).
      (13)   Information commonly associated with fraudulent activity is
provided by applicant (e.g., address that is a mail drop or prison, non-working
phone number or associated with answering service/pager).
      (14)   Social security number, address, or telephone number is the same
as that of other customer at utility.
      (15)   Customer fails to provide all information requested.
      (16)   Personal information provided is inconsistent with information on
file for a customer.
      (17)   Applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what could
commonly be
found in a purse or wallet.
      (18)   Identity theft is reported or discovered.
   (D)   Response. Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag
will implement the following response as applicable. All detections or
suspicious red flags shall be reported to the senior management official.
      (1)   Ask the applicant for additional documentation.
      (2)   Notify internal manager: any utility employee who becomes aware of
a suspected or actual fraudulent use of a customer or potential customer’s
identity must notify the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Notify law enforcement: the utility will notify the Paoli Police
Department at 812-723-2836 of any attempted or actual identity theft.
      (4)   Do not open the account.
      (5)   Close the account.
      (6)   Do not attempt to collect against the account but notify
authorities.
   (E)   Personal information security procedures. The Town of Paoli adopts the
following security procedures.
      (1)   Paper documents, files and electronic media containing secure
information will be stored in locked file cabinets. File cabinets will be
stored in a locked room.
      (2)   Access to offsite storage facilities is limited to employees with a
legitimate business need.
      (3)   Visitors who must enter areas where sensitive files are kept must
be escorted by an employee of the utility.
      (4)   When sensitive data is received or transmitted, secure connections
will be used.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 4-19-11)
§ 33.08 ADVANCE PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is approved and authorized to make payments in advance
of formal allowance by the Town Council for certain expenses, including
payments to such vendors or service providers, public or private, which have
provided services or goods to the Town of Paoli and for which a delay of
payment incurs penalties or late payment charges, as well as payroll.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 4-21-20; Am. Ord. 2020-12, passed 12-1-20)
§ 33.09 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section. the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAPITAL ASSETS. Tangible assets of durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the town that are relatively permanent and needed for
the production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment and capital assets. This broad group is usually separated into
classes according to the physical characteristics of the items.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes, without limitation: accounting for costs of
town-owned land, infrastructures, buildings, improvements other than buildings,
machinery and equipment, as well as construction in progress; acquiring land,
and infrastructures as well as installing infrastructures or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings; adding improvements other than
buildings; other capital assets; and machinery and equipment purchases having
an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness. These are expenditures
resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the town's capital assets. All
items will have life expectancies established with depreciated values on an
annual basis except for land. Documentation of costing sources, including
without limitation, architects, engineering firms. project managers, and
construction companies, life expectancy tables, cost indexes and other means
for establishing known or estimated historical costs, will be provided.
      ENTERPRISE FUNDS. Those funds used to account for operations that are
financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise, where
the intent of the town is that the expenses, including depreciation of
providing goods and services to the general public on a continuing basis, be
financed or recovered primarily through user charges; or, where the town has
decided that periodic determination of revenues earned, expenses incurred, and/
or net income is appropriate for capital maintenance, public policy, management
control, accountability and other purposes. The enterprise funds of the town
include the municipally owned water, wastewater and electric utilities, and any
other utility that may be established by the town. Operation of these utilities
shall require enterprise fund accounting and reporting.
      HISTORICAL COST. The case equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services (e.g. land, infrastructure, buildings, improvements other than
buildings, machinery, equipment, and construction in progress) at the date of
acquisition.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses that may be seen and touched.
   (B)   Land capitalization provisions.
      (1)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost,
except payments for land use purchased outright as easements or rights-of-way
for infrastructure.
      (2)   The original historical cost of land will include the known or
estimated full value, including purchase price, relocation payments to former
owners, legal services incidental to the purchase (including title work and
opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying and costs for preparing the
land for its intended purpose (including contractors' and/or town workers'
salaries and benefits) for services; such as demolishing buildings, excavating,
cleanup and/or inspection. Information from county offices including; auditor's
office, assessor's office and recorder's office will be researched and included
in the capital asset report. Land is never depreciated.
      (3)   The town will account for donated land at fair market value on the
date of transfer plus any associated costs necessary for making the land usable
for its intended purpose.
      (4)   Land purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
above provisions as indicated above.
   (C)   Infrastructure capitalization provisions. The town will capitalize
infrastructure that has a life expectancy of greater than two years. Examples
include streets, bike/jogging paths, storm sewers, sewer lines, parking lots,
streetlights and retention/detention ponds.
      (1)   New infrastructure will be capitalized only if (1) the total cost
exceeds $5,000.00; and (2) the useful life is greater than two years.
      (2)   Meters will be expensed rather than capitalized.
      (3)   Only streets and sidewalks constructed on or after 2004 will be
included.
      (4)   Improvements or renovations to existing infrastructure will be
capitalized only if the result meets the following conditions: (1) the total
cost exceeds $5,000,00; and (2) the useful life is extended two or more years.
      (5)   Unless maintenance/repairs exceed $50,000 they will be considered
as expensed items.
      (6)   Donated infrastructure will be recorded at fair market value on the
date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (7)   Infrastructure purchases using federal or state funding will follow
the above provisions of divisions (C)(1) through (C)(6).
   (D)   Building capitalization provisions.
      (1)   The town will capitalize existing buildings that are at or over
$5,000 cost at full cost with no subcategories for the cost of attachments.
Examples of attachments are: roofs, windows, doors, mechanical, plumbing,
electrical, sprinkler systems or any part of the basic building. The town will
include the cost of items designed or purchased exclusively for the building.
Capitalization of building costs will include the preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, accounting costs of material, and
any costs directly attributable to the construction of a building.
      (2)   New buildings will be capitalized only if (1) the total cost
exceeds $5,000; and (2) the useful life is greater than two years.
      (3)   Improvements or renovations to an existing building will be
capitalized only if the result meets the following conditions: (1) the total
cost exceeds $5,000; and (2) the useful life is extended two or more years.
      (4)   Replacement of roofs or other building components such as BVAC
systems will be expensed unless the project totals greater than $100,000.
      (5)   Donated buildings will be recorded at fair market value on the date
of transfer with any associated costs.
      (6)   Building purchases using federal or state funding will follow the
above provisions of items divisions (D)(1) through (D)(5).
   (E)   Improvements other than building capitalization provisions.
      (1)   The town will capitalize existing improvements, other than
buildings attached or not easily removed, that have a life expectancy of
greater than two years. Examples include walks, parking areas, drives, golf
cart paths, fencing, signs, retaining walls, pools, outside, fountains,
underground sprinkler systems and other improvements of similar items on town
property. Known or estimated historical cost of these assets will be included.
For improvements other than buildings where historical cost is unknown, current
acquisition cost will be calculated then based on known or estimated dates of
acquisition and historical cost will be designated by using a cost index table
of percentages. Improvements do not include roads, streets, sidewalks or assets
that are of value only to the public.
      (2)   New improvements other than buildings will be capitalized only if
(1) the total cost exceeds $5,000; and (2) the useful life is greater than two
years.
      (3)   Improvements or renovations to existing improvements other than
buildings will be capitalized only if the result meets the following
conditions: (1) the total cost exceeds $5,000; and (2) the useful life is
greater than two years.
      (4)   Donated improvements will be recorded at fair market value on the
date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (5)   Improvements other than building purchases using federal or state
funding will follow the above provisions of divisions (E)(1) through (E)(4).
   (F)   Machinery and equipment capitalization provisions.
      (1)   The town will capitalize currently owned machinery and equipment
that is not a part of a basic structure or building and that has a life
expectancy of greater than two years. Examples include trucks, cars, machinery,
furniture, computer equipment and other similar items that have a known or
estimated historical cost of $5,000 or greater. Where historical cost is
unknown, current replacement cost will be calculated then based on known or
estimated dates of acquisition and historical cost will be designated by using
a cost index table of percentages.
      (2)   New machinery and equipment will be capitalized only if (1) the
total cost exceeds $5,000; and (2) the useful life is greater than two years.
      (3)   Improvements or renovations to an existing machinery or equipment
will be capitalized only if the result meets the following conditions: (1) the
total cost exceeds $5,000; and (2) the useful life is extended two or more
years.
      (4)   Capitalization of machinery and equipment costs will include
shipping charges, consultant fees and any other cost directly associated with
the purchase, delivery or set up, which makes such machinery or equipment
operable for its intended purpose. Cost of attachments for machinery and
equipment shall be included since they are necessary for using the asset for
its intended purpose.
      (5)   Donated machinery and equipment will be recorded at fair market
value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (6)   Machinery and equipment purchases using federal or state funding
will follow the above provisions of divisions (F)(1) through (F)(4).
   (G)   Construction work in progress capitalization provisions. Where
construction work has not been completed in the current calendar year, the cost
of the project shall be recorded as "construction work in progress." When the
project is complete, the project will be recorded to the applicable capital
asset item type account and only if the capital asset meets the required
conditions.
   (H)   Life expectancy and depreciation methods.
      (1)   The town will indicate life expectancy for each asset and by using
a national table and or generally accepted life expectancy for specific items.
Depreciation of capital assets will be calculated using the straight-line
method. There will be no salvage value used. Depreciation will be calculated at
year-end. The asset current life year and ensuing depreciation shall begin the
year after the year purchased (e.g., the asset purchased in 2012; the 2013
current life and depreciation year is one). Land is not depreciated according
to generally accepted accounting principles.
      (2)   Straight-line depreciation. All assets accounted for under the
capital asset policy will be depreciated using the straight-line method of
depreciation. A gain or loss on disposal will be recorded. Following is a list
of the most town useful lives:
 
Asset                             Useful Life (years)
Land                              Not depreciated
Infrastructure                    20-50
Buildings                         15-50
Improvements other than buildings 10-50
Machinery and equipment           3-20
Construction in progress          Not depreciated
 
(Ord. 2021-09, passed 7-6-21)
ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
§ 33.20 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION TO RECEIVE APPLICATIONS.
   The Economic Development Commission of the town is hereby designated as the
agency of the town which shall receive all applications from persons, firms,
organizations, or corporations requesting that certain real estate be
designated as an Economic Revitalization Area.
(Ord. 1984-6, passed 8-27-84)
Statutory reference:
   Tax abatement for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of property, see I.C.
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
§ 33.21 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   The town shall prepare printed forms and require all applicants applying for
designation of real estate as an Economic Revitalization Area to use such form
in making application. The town shall include, but not be limited to, the
request for the following information: description of the real estate, proposed
use of the real estate, proposed type and cost of redevelopment,
rehabilitation, or new manufacturing equipment, description of the proposed
operation and number of jobs to be created, projected date of completion for
the proposed improvements, and the projected increase in use of public
utilities and town services resulting from the improvements.
(Ord. 1984-6, passed 8-27-84)
§ 33.22 APPLICATION FEE; DISPOSITION OF FEE.
   (A)   The fees to be paid by the applicants on the real estate to be
designated as an Economic Revitalization Area shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of application and shall thereafter remain the property
of the town, and are as follows:
      (1)   $150 if the value of the proposed improvements is $150,000 or less.
      (2)   $1 per $1,000 of the proposed improvements if the proposed
improvements are more than $150,000, but the fee shall not exceed $1,000.
   (B)   The proceeds of the application fee or fees shall be added to the
funds budgeted and allocated to the town Economic Development Commission to be
spent to defray the cost of processing applications and to meet general
commission expenses.
(Ord. 1984-6, passed 8-27-84)
§ 33.23 SUBMISSION AND CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   An applicant for the designation of real estate as an Economic
Revitalization Area shall submit a completed application form to the Secretary
of the Economic Development Commission. The Economic Development Commission
shall investigate the applicant and the proposed improvements to determine the
best interests of the town, shall hold public hearings thereon if necessary or
advisable, and shall thereafter make written recommendations to the Town
Council as the desirability or nondesirability of designating the area
described in the application as an Economic Revitalization Area and may
recommend the period of time during which the area shall be so designated and
the type of deductions that shall be allowed. The Town Council shall consider
the application and recommendation and make the determination as to whether or
not to grant Economic Revitalization Area status in accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-2.5.
   (B)   In considering the advisability of designating real estate as an
Economic Revitalization Area, under the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3, the
Economic Development Commission and the Town Council shall consider the
following issues:
      (1)   Whether there is reason to believe that without such designation
development would not take place;
      (2)   Whether designation would give the affected business an unfair
economic advantage over other community businesses; and
      (3)   The potential increase in demand for town services as a result of
the improvement.
   (C)   In considering the advisability of designating real estate as an
Economic Revitalization Area under the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5, the
Economic Development Commission and Town Council shall consider the issues in
division (B) of this section, as well as the following:
      (1)   Whether the new manufacturing equipment is being installed to
replace equipment that is technologically, economically or energy obsolete; and
      (2)   Whether other economic factors exist which, in accordance with I.C.
6-1.1-12.1-1, establish that designation of an Economic Revitalization Area
under the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5 are in the best long-term interests
of the town.
(Ord. 1984-6, passed 8-27-84)
§ 33.24 EXPIRATION OF DESIGNATION.
   (A)   If the improvements proposed in the application for Economic
Revitalization Area status are not started within one year of the date of
designation, the Economic Revitalization Area designation for the real estate
shall expire; however, the applicant may reapply, and the application fee
therefor shall be 50% of the original fee. Such reapplication shall be made
within 90 days of the date of the expiration of the one year period. In
addition, the Economic Development Commission, upon the applicant’s request, in
writing, may extend such designation for a period not to exceed six months.
   (B)   Where an area has been designated as an Economic Revitalization Area,
such status shall expire two years after the date of designation unless
otherwise stated in the resolution establishing the area; however, such
expiration shall not limit the length of time any persons, firms,
organizations, or corporations are entitled to receive an abatement of taxes to
less than that permitted by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1. Further, the Economic
Revitalization Area designation will be conditioned in such manner that it will
be effective only relative to the project which is described in the final
resolution as supplemented by the information in the application.
(Ord. 1984-6, passed 8-27-84)
§ 33.25 LIMITATIONS AND SCOPE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   No tax abatement application shall be considered under this subchapter
for items of manufacturing equipment which have a total value of less than
$1,500 or for structural improvements valued at less than $10,000.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not give any person, firm, organization, or
corporation any right to tax abatement for a longer period of time, or greater
amount, than as provided by the laws of the state.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to redevelopment, rehabilitation, or new
manufacturing equipment located in the town in the Paoli Industrial Park as
shown on “Map 1" attached to Ordinance 1984-6, passed 8-27-84, or at a site
which is or will be used for manufacturing or processing as defined in the
Standard Industrial Classification Code (“SIC Code”) currently used by the
United States Bureau of the Census.
(Ord. 1984-6, passed 8-27-84)
§ 33.26 DECISION BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   Each application shall be reviewed by the Economic Development Commission
and the Commission shall forward its recommendations to approve or deny the
application in writing to the Town Council within 30 days of receipt of the
application. The town shall in the next ensuing 30 days decide upon the
designation by rejecting the request and recording such action in the minutes
of a regular or special meeting, or by passing a resolution designating the
area an Economic Revitalization Area eligible for tax abatement under the terms
of this subchapter and the state enabling statute.
(Ord. 1984-6, passed 8-27-84)
FUNDS
§ 33.35 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town of Paoli Cumulative Capital Development Fund is hereby
established, for all uses and adhering to all provisions as set out in I.C. 36-
9-15.5 and I.C. 6-1.1-41.
   (B)   The proposed fund will not exceed:
      (1)   $0.016 per $100 of assessed valuation beginning with taxes payable
in 2003;
      (2)   $0.033 per $100 of assess valuation taxes payable in 2004; and
      (3)   $0.0167 per $100 of assessed payable in 2005;
      (4)   $0.0333 per $100 of assessed payable in 2006; and
      (5)   $0.0500 per $100 of assessed valuation payable in 2007 and
thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
   (C)   The funds accumulated in the Town of Paoli Cumulative Capital
Development Fund will be used by emergency services only for the purpose of
other than regular maintenance and operating expenses.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-30-02; Am. Res. 2004-05, passed 7-6-04)
§ 33.36 RIVERBOAT WAGERING TAX REVENUE SHARING FUND.
   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Town of Paoli
Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund. All disbursements from such funds
shall be at the direction of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 8-24-04)
§ 33.37 PARK DEBT RESERVE FUND.
   All funds received from wagering tax distributions from the French Lick
Casino through Orange County shall be deposited into an account to be known as
the Park Debt Reserve Fund, effective until financing is complete for the Town
Park projects.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-17-07)
§ 33.38 RAINY DAY FUND.
   A Rainy Day Fund is now established for the Town of Paoli.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 3-18-08)
§ 33.39 TAX INCREMENT FINANCE (TIF) FUND.
   A Tax Increment Finance (TIF) Fund is hereby established for the Town of
Paoli.
(Res. 2013-05, passed, 6-4-13)
§ 33.40 COMMUNITY OUTREACH FUND.
   A Community Outreach Fund is hereby established for the Town of Paoli.
(Res. 2013-06, passed 6-4-13)
§ 33.41 VEHICLE UNLOCK FUND.
   The Town Council of the Town of Paoli hereby creates a Vehicle Unlock Fund
which shall be a revolving fund, and all monies paid shall be placed in the
fund and in no other place. The monies also shall not revert to the General
Fund but shall remain in the Vehicle Unlock Fund. Money from this fund can be
used at the discretion of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 5-7-14)
§ 33.42 RESERVE OFFICER FUND.
   The Town Council of the town hereby creates a Reserve Officer Fund which
shall be a revolving fund, and all monies paid shall be placed in said fund and
in no other place. Said monies also shall not revert to the general fund but
shall remain in the Reserve Officer Fund. Any money generated from this fund
can be used at the discretion of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 6-20-17)
§ 33.43 LOCAL PUBLIC SAFETY INCOME TAX DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   The Town Council authorized a new fund to be established for the purpose of
receiving and disbursing money associated with the public income tax
disbursement and shall be used only for purposes outlined within I.C. 6-3.6 and
shall abide by all rules and regulations as prescribed by Indiana Code and
State Board of Accounts policy.
(Res. 2017-06, passed 12-19-17)
§ 33.44 BUY MONEY PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Buy Money Program and a Buy
Money Program Fund.
   (B)   The town will place funds relating to its Buy Money Program in the Buy
Money Program Fund.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 3-19-19)
§ 33.44 BUY MONEY PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Buy Money Program and a Buy
Money Program Fund.
   (B)   The town will place funds relating to its Buy Money Program in the Buy
Money Program Fund.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 3-19-19)
§ 33.45 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUNDS—RESTRICTED AND UNRESTRICTED.
   (A)   Established. There is established a special fund known as Opioid
Settlement Fund—Unrestricted (Fund 2256) (the “Unrestricted Fund”) and the
Opioid Settlement Fund—Restricted (Fund 2257) (the “Restricted Fund”).
   (B)   Contributions to the Unrestricted Fund. Contributions to the
Unrestricted Fund shall be the unrestricted portion of opioid settlement funds
received from the State of Indiana by the town as a participating political
subdivision from a national settlement with Johnson & Johnson,
AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health and McKesson.
   (C)   Use of Unrestricted Funds. Expenditures may be made from the
Unrestricted Fund by appropriation by the Town Council for any purpose approved
by the Town Council.
   (D)   Contributions to the Restricted Fund. Contributions to the Restricted
Fund shall be the restricted portion of opioid settlement funds received from
the State of Indiana by the town as a participating political subdivision from
a national settlement with Johnson & Johnson, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal
Health and McKesson. See Exhibit A attached to Ord. 2022-15.
   (E)   Use of Restricted Funds. Expenditures may be made from the Restricted
Fund by appropriation by the Town Council for any purpose approved by the Town
Council from the List of Permitted Categories of restricted spending issued by
the Indiana Office of the Attorney General in accordance with the settlement
agreement from the courts.
   (F)   Termination. The Unrestricted Fund and Restricted Fund shall be
perpetual funds until terminated by future ordinance, and any funds remaining
at time of termination shall be returned to general fund of the town.
(Ord. 2022-15, passed 12-20-22)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
   
34.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
   
34.02   Drug-free workplace policy
   
34.03   [Reserved]
   
34.04   Policy regarding take-home vehicles
   
34.05   Public Employees Retirement Fund
   
34.06   Job classification and pay scale
   
34.07   Expenses for training and licensing
   
34.08   Worker’s compensation leave
   
34.09   Anti-nepotism policy; employment
   
34.10   Anti-nepotism policy; contracts
   
34.11   Gift rule
   
34.12   Uniform internal control standards
   
34.13   Credit card use by town
   
34.14   Special LOIT Distribution Fund
   
34.15   Code of ethical conduct
   
34.16   Residency requirement
§ 34.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies of the Town of Paoli, Indiana, as may be amended or
supplemented from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and shall be
treated as if set forth in full herein. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep and
maintain two true, complete, and legible copies of the personnel policies on
file and available for public inspection during regular business hours at the
town offices.
§ 34.02 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   No employee engaged in employment for the town shall unlawfully
manufacture, distribute, dispense, possess or use on or in the workplace any
narcotic drug, hallucinogenic drug, amphetamine, barbiturate, marijuana,
alcoholic beverage, or any other controlled substance, as defined in schedule I
through V of section 202 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 USC § 812), the
contents of which are on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term WORKPLACE is defined to mean the
site for the performance of work done in connection with employment. The term
includes any town building or any town premise, and town-owned vehicles and any
other town-approved vehicle used off town property during any town work.
   (C)   Employees are to comply with this policy of the town and will notify
their supervisor of an conviction of any criminal drug statute for a violation
occurring in the workplace, no later than five days after such conviction.
   (D)   Any employee who violates the terms of this policy may be non-renewed
or his or her employment may be suspended or terminated, after appropriate due
process, if required.
   (E)   The town will provide drug-free awareness information, in-service, and
information regarding drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance
programs for all employees. Employees should report any need of information or
assistance to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   This policy is to be made available to all employees.
(Res. 1992-6, passed - -92)
§ 34.03 [RESERVED].
§ 34.04 POLICY REGARDING TAKE-HOME VEHICLES.
   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Town Superintendent and the Chief of
Police to drive their assigned vehicles at all times when they are away from
their homes, excluding times when they are on authorized vacation leave from
the town.
(Res. 1996-2, passed 8-21-96; Am. Res. 2000-3, passed 4-4-00)
§ 34.05 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council elects to enlarge its participation in the Public
Employees Retirement Fund by including additional classes of employees as
stated below in the coverage under I.C. 5-10.3 et seq., and all Acts amendatory
and supplemental thereto. This agreement supplements the original dated
January 1, 1983.
   (B)   The Town Council agrees to make the required contributions under the
Public Employees Retirement Fund Act, I.C. 5-10.3 et seq., and all Acts
amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto,
including The Indiana Public Employees Social Security Integration and
Supplemental Retirement Benefits Act, I.C. 5-10.1 et seq.
   (C)   The positions listed on Appendix A to Resolution 2000-4, incorporated
herein by reference, are declared to be covered by the Fund.
   (D)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified under division (C) hereof are compensated on a fee basis or of an
emergency nature, or in a part-time category.
   (E)   The Town Council shall be placed on the list of employees eligible to
participate in the Public Employees Retirement Fund. The job of Town
Councilmember is a full time job which requires at least 1,000 hours per year.
The active participating membership of the Town Council shall begin on July 1,
2000.
   (F)   The Town Attorney shall be placed on the list of employees eligible to
participate in the Public Employees Retirement Fund for the town. The job of
the Town Attorney is a full-time job which requires at least 1,000 hours per
year.
(Res. 1997-4, passed 5-19-97; Am. Res. 2000-1, passed 1-19-00; Am. Res. 2000-4,
passed 4-18-00)
§ 34.06 JOB CLASSIFICATION AND PAY SCALE.
   (A)   The Job Classification and Pay Scale adopted by the town, as amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as if fully
set forth herein. Copies of the Job Classification and Pay Scale are on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and available for public inspection during
regular business hours.
   (B)   Newly hired employees may only receive pay above the minimum amount
set by the Town Council upon approval by the Town Council.
   (C)   A 90-day probationary period will be required for all new employees.
   (D)   All employees must comply with the Employee Handbook for the town.
   (E)   This section shall not constitute an agreement as to the terms of the
employment of any employee.
   (F)   Upon approval by the Town Council, employees not exceeding the highest
rate of pay for their position may be granted C.O.L.A.
(Ord. 2001-5, passed 11-20-01)
§ 34.07 EXPENSES FOR TRAINING AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Meal allowance. It shall be the policy of the town to provide an
allowance for meals for employees who maintain licenses, certifications,
membership in organizations that promote the betterment of government, or
travel at the direction of department heads or the Town Council for town
business. The meal allowances shall be as follows: $6.50 per breakfast, $6.50
per lunch, and $13.00 per dinner. Where meals are included as part of the
conference or travel plans, no allowance shall be payable to the employee. The
meal allowance may be paid in advance provided a claim is submitted to the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office 48 hours before the travel will begin.
   (B)   Hotel allowance. It shall be the policy of the town to provide an
allowance for hotels for employees who maintain licenses, certifications,
membership in organizations that promote the betterment of government, or
travel at the direction of department heads or the Town Council for town
business. The hotel allowance shall be as follows: a maximum of $79.00 per
night.
   (C)   Reimbursement for mileage parking fees and toll fees. It shall be the
policy of the town to provide reimbursement for mileage, parking fee and toll
fees for employees who maintain licenses, certifications, membership in
organizations that promote the betterment of government, or travel at the
direction of department heads or the Town Council for town business.
      (1)   Officials and employees of the Town of Paoli who, in the course of
conducting official town business, operate their own motor vehicles outside the
town of to another location shall be allowed for the mileage traveled by the
most expeditious route in going to and returning from said location, a sum for
mileage at a rate equal to the current rate allowed and paid to employees of
the State of Indiana.
      (2)   In addition to the mileage rate set forth herein above, said
officials and employees shall be entitled to reimbursement for toll charges and
parking fees incurred in connection with their official travel outside the
town.
(Ord. 2002-05A, passed 10-15-02)
§ 34.08 WORKER’S COMPENSATION LEAVE.
   (A)   Officials and workers of the town injured on the job and eligible to
receive worker’s compensation benefits shall receive only those benefits, and
not additional compensation from the town. Provided, however, during the
waiting period for worker’s compensation, the employee or official may use sick
or other available leave of the employee or official.
   (B)   Any previous practice wherein employees or officials were paid their
full wages and/or salary by the town are hereby repealed.
   (C)   Benefits shall continue during the period of worker’s compensation
leave, but not salary or wages.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 2-21-12)
§ 34.09 ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY; EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-20.2, the Town Council hereby adopts
the following anti- nepotism ordinance regarding the employment of relatives.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative body, or fiscal body of a town,
as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or
personnel policies of the town.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town.
      MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The fire chief or a firefighter appointed
to the department.
      MEMBER OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT. The police chief or a police officer
appointed to the department.
      RELATIVE.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   A spouse;
            2.   A parent or stepparent;
            3.   A child or stepchild;
            4.   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual.
         (c)   The terms BROTHER and SISTER include a brother or sister by the
half blood.
   (C)   Exclusions.
      (1)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012 is not
subject to these policies unless the individual has a break in employment with
the town. Breaks in employment do not include the following:
         (a)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
         (b)   The individual’s employment with the town is terminated followed
by immediate reemployment by the town, without loss of payroll time.
      (2)   These policies do not apply to performance of duties as a:
         (a)   Precinct election officer as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1; or
         (b)   Volunteer firefighter.
      (3)   This statute does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the town that:
         (a)   An individual is a party to; and
         (b)   Is in effect on the date the individual’s relative begins
serving a term of an elected office of the town.
   (D)   Employment of relatives.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (2)   With regard to an individual who:
         (a)   Is employed by the town on the date the individual’s relative
begins serving a term of an elected office of the town; and
         (b)   Is not exempt from the application of this statute;
an individual may remain employed by the town and maintain the individual’s
position or rank even if the individual’s employment would violate the
prohibition against one relative being in the direct line of supervision of the
other relative. This individual may not: (I) be promoted to a position or (ii)
be promoted to a position that is not within the merit ranks in the case of an
individual who is a member of a merit police department or merit fire
department, if the new position would violate the prohibition against one
relative being in the direct line of supervision of the other relative.
      (3)   A sheriff’s spouse may be employed as prison matron for the county
under I.C. 36-8-10-5 and the spouse may be in the sheriff’s direct line of
supervision.
      (4)   An individual may be hired in the position of deputy coroner and be
in the coroner’s direct line of supervision, if that individual is one:
         (a)   Who served as coroner;
         (b)   Who is currently ineligible to serve as coroner under Article 6,
Section 2(b) of the Constitution of the State of Indiana;
         (c)   Who, as coroner, received certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3;
and
         (d)   Whose successor in the office of coroner is a relative of the
individual.
      (5)   If a township trustee’s office is located in the township trustee’s
personal residence, the township trustee may hire only one employee who is a
relative. The employee:
         (a)   May be hired to work only in the township trustee’s office;
         (b)   May be in the township trustee’s direct line of supervision; and
         (c)   May not receive total salary, benefits, and compensation that
exceed $5,000 per year.
   (E)   Certification requirement. Each elected officer of the town must
annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury, that the
officer has not violated this statute. Each officer must submit the
certification to the executive of the town not later than December 31 of each
year.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-19-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.10 ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY; CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-21, the Town Council hereby adopts the
following anti- nepotism ordinance regarding contracting with relatives.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL.
         (a)   The executive or a member of the executive body of the town;
         (b)   A member of the legislative body of the town; or
         (c)   A member of the fiscal body of the town.
      RELATIVE.  
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   A spouse;
            2.   A parent or stepparent;
            3.   A child or stepchild;
            4.   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual.
         (c)   The terms BROTHER and SISTER include a brother or sister by the
half blood.
   (C)   Contracting practices.
      (1)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with one of
the following, only if the requirements in divisions (C)(2), (3), and (4) below
are satisfied and the elected official does not violate I.C. 35-44-1-3:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official.
      (2)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described above if:
         (a)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the legislative body of the town and be
accepted by the legislative body in a public meeting of the town prior to final
action on the contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               a.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The clerk of the circuit court in the county where the town
takes final action on the contract or purchase;
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the town:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
         (c)   The town satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
      (3)   An elected official must also comply with the disclosure provisions
of I.C. 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
      (4)   These provisions do not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the town
begins.
   (D)   Certification requirement. Each elected officer of a town must
annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury, that the
officer is in compliance with this statute. An officer must submit the
certification to the executive of the town not later than December 31 of each
year.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-19-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.11 GIFT RULE.
   (A)   (1)   A town employee or town elected official, or the spouse or
unemancipated child of a town employee or elected official, shall not knowingly
solicit, accept, or receive any:
         (a)   Gift;
         (b)   Favor;
         (c)   Service;
         (d)   Entertainment;
         (e)   Food;
         (f)   Drink;
         (g)   Travel expenses; or
         (h)   Registration fees.
      (2)   From a person who has a business relationship with, the employee's
or elected official's department or is seeking to influence an action by the
employee or elected official in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   The following shall not be subject to this rule;
      (1)   Promotional items having no substantial resale value such as
calendars, pens, hats, and t-shirts which bear a company's name or logo; and
      (2)   Food and drink consumed while the personal guest of a giver. In
order for this second exception to apply, the giver or a representative of the
giver must be present when the food and drink are consumed. Reasonable
transportation and entertainment which are incidental to the food and drink are
also allowed. The value of the food and drink is limited to $58 per occasion;
      (3)   Complimentary admission to a civic, non-profit, educational or
political event. This exception applies only when the town employee or elected
official is giving a speech at the event, is on a panel for discussion during
the event, or. is a program honoree. Tickets to collegiate, professional, and
semi-professional sporting events are not included within the exception.
      (4)   Flowers or a donation in connection with the death of an immediate
family member of the town employee or elected official, if the value does not
exceed $100; and
      (5)   Participation in recreational activities such as golf if the value
does not exceed $100 per occasion.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-7-17)
§ 34.12 UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town, hereby adopts as policy the internal control standards as set
forth by the State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for
Indiana Political Subdivisions manual as expressly written and published by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts in September 2015, as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-20-16)
§ 34.13 CREDIT CARD USE BY TOWN.
   The Town Council of the Town of Paoli, Indiana as follows:
   (A)   Town employees and officials may use town credit cards for purchases
related to the performance of town duties when such use is in the best interest
of the town.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to obtain credit cards
titled for the Town of Paoli.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to obtain credit cards
titled for the Town Departments on the request of the Department Head.
   (D)   The Department Head, or their designee, shall be responsible for
safekeeping of the credit cards.
   (E)   Town credit cards shall be used only with the approval of the
Department Head, Clerk-Treasurer, or their designee. The Department Head,
Clerk-Treasurer, or their designee shall maintain a usage log for each card
identified by card account number, with entries certified by signature of the
Department Head, Clerk-Treasurer, or their designee. The log shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The name and position of the individual using the town's card;
      (2)   Upon issuance: the date the card is issued to the individual, the
estimated amounts to be charged, the type of expenses, and the appropriation
account numbers to be expended; and
      (3)   Upon return: the date the card is returned and the amount charged
to the card.
   (F)   Town credit cards shall be used for purchases relating to the
performance of town business only. No personal use of a town credit card is
allowed, even if an employee offers to reimburse the town for the employee's
personal use of a town credit card.
   (G)   Payment of credit card bills shall be subject to the audit
requirements of accounts payable vouchers in conformity with I.C. § 5-11-10 and
I.C. § 36-4-8 and the regulations of the State Board of Accounts. Itemized
receipts are required for all credit card purchases, including restaurant
charges. Payment will not be made on the basis of a credit card statement.
Signed charge slips showing a total charge only, with no itemization of
purchases, are not acceptable. It is the responsibility of the employee
authorizing the charge to obtain proper itemized receipts.
   (H)   Credit card charges that do not meet audit requirements, including
charges that include the imposition of sales taxes for which the town is
otherwise exempt, are the responsibility of the employee authorizing the
charge. The town will take all necessary steps to obtain reimbursement for
charges which do not meet audit requirements from the employee authorizing the
charge, including, but not limited to, the garnishment of the charging
employee's town wages.
   (I)   Any interest or penalty incurred due to late filing with the Clerk-
Treasurer of an accounts payable voucher for payment of a credit card bill, or
incurred due to delay in furnishing of documentation required for audit by an
officer or employee, shall be the responsibility of that officer or employee.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately if a credit card is
lost or stolen. If a credit card is lost due to negligence on the part of a
town employee, the employee shall be responsible for any and all expenses
incurred on the lost credit card.
   (K)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to revoke credit cards that have
been used in violation of town policy.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-6-16)
§ 34.14 SPECIAL LOIT DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   The Town Council of the Town of Paoli hereby authorizes to be established
for the purpose of receiving and disbursing money associated with this Special
LOIT Disbursement and Fund shall be used only for purposes outlined within I.C.
6-3.6-9-17(h)(l)(A) and shall abide by all rules and regulations as prescribed
by Indiana Code and State Board of Accounts policy.
(Res. 2016-04, passed 7-5-16)
§ 34.15 CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT.
   All appointed officials, elected officials, employees, volunteers and others
who participate in town government shall subscribe to the following code of
ethics.
   (A)   To comply with §
34.11, the town’s ethical rules concerning the acceptance of gifts by elected
officials and employees.
   (B)   To comply with §
34.09, the town’s anti-nepotism policy regarding employment of relatives, and §
34.10, the town’s anti-nepotism policy regarding contracting with relatives.
   (C)   To comply with §§
30.40 et seq., the town’s public purchasing and procurement policy.
   (D)   To make decisions for the public’s best interests, even when they may
not be popular.
   (E)   To not engage in any business that would be, directly or indirectly,
inconsistent with the conscientious performance of one’s public duties.
   (F)   To make no private promises of any kind that may unduly influence
one’s public duties.
   (G)   To accept the responsibility to:
      (1)   Expose corrupt practices and/or behaviors; and
      (2)   Where empowered to do so, protect from retaliation any public
employee who has exposed corrupt practices and/or behaviors.
   (H)   To accomplish the goals and responsibilities of one’s individual
position, while respecting one’s role as a member of a team and of the
community at large.
   (I)   To act in a professional and responsive manner.
   (J)   To communicate effectively by listening carefully, asking questions,
and responding in a way that adds value to conversations.
   (K)   To not participate in any decision in which there is a conflict of
interest, or from which one’s family, business or professional associates may
personally benefit.
   (L)   To not use one’s position, public property or public resources for the
personal benefits of one’s self, one’s family or one’s business or professional
associates.
   (M)   To never solicit or accept any favor or benefit for one’s family,
one’s business or professional associates, or one’s self that might be
construed as influencing the performance of one’s public duties.
   (N)   To make full public disclosure of the nature of any conflict of
interest prior to taking any action.
   (O)   To avoid disclosing or abusing information that one gains by virtue of
one’s position for the personal benefit of one’s self, one’s family, or one’s
businesses or professional associates.
   (P)   To not engage in direct competition with the town while an employee,
an appointed official, or an elected official of the town.
   (Q)   To support the public’s right to know the truth, and to encourage
diverse and civil public debate in the decision-making process.
   (R)   To promote nondiscrimination in one’s decision-making for the town,
and to make decisions based upon the merits of the issue at hand.
   (S)   To recognize that the function of government is to serve the best
interests of its citizens.
   (T)   To use one’s authority to promote the efficient and effective delivery
of public services.
   (U)   To refrain from proposing services where adequate resources are not
available.
   (V)   As an employee of the town:
      (1)   To not use one’s position for personal gain, and to not engage in
any business or transaction that conflicts with the proper discharge of one’s
duties;
      (2)   To not engage in or accept private employment, or render services
for private interests, when such employment or services are incompatible with
the proper discharge of one’s official duties, or would tend to impair one’s
independent judgment or action in the performance of official duties.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 12-27-18)
§ 34.16 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   A member of the Town of Paoli Police Department hired on or after May 25,
2021 must reside within Orange County, Indiana or any contiguous county
(Crawford, Dubois, Lawrence, Martin, or Washington) within six months of his/
her date of hire.
(Ord. 2021-06, passed 5-11-21)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
35.01   Designation of Records Access Officer
   
35.02   Records requests
   
35.03   Fees for copies
   
35.04   Response from Records Access Officer
   
35.05   Certification for unavailable records
   
35.07   Inspection of records
   
35.08   Exempt records
§ 35.01 DESIGNATION OF RECORDS ACCESS OFFICER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer, and his or her successors, is hereby designated as the
person responsible for public records release decisions and will be referred to
as the “Records Access Officer.”
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
§ 35.02 RECORDS REQUESTS.
   (A)   Records request will be received between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
regular business days, and must identify, on forms provided by the town, the
record for which disclosure is sought.
   (B)   Requests by mail for copies of records may be addressed to the Records
Access Officer and will be honored upon payment of the regular fee; provided,
the requested record is sufficiently identified to make compliance practicable.
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
§ 35.03 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The fees for copies are as follows:
      (1)   Pages not larger than 8½ inches × 14 inches: $0.15 for each of the
first ten copies and $0.10 per copy thereafter.
      (2)   Any other record: the actual cost of copying.
   (B)   Fees are payable before any record is duplicated and may be paid by
cash or money order payable to the town.
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
§ 35.04 RESPONSE FROM RECORDS ACCESS OFFICER.
   (A)   The Records Access Officer shall have 24 hours in which to respond,
but whenever a request is received on a Friday or on a day preceding a legal
holiday, the person responsible for release decisions shall have until the same
hour on the next business day in which to release, copy, or refuse disclosure,
whichever may be applicable.
   (B)   The Records Access Officer will be guided first by the state Access to
Public Records Act and amendments, if any; seconded by state and federal law
regarding privacy, confidentiality and disclosure requirements of certain
public records; and third, by the Town Council’s resolution which excludes
certain records from disclosure.
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
Statutory reference:
   State Access to Public Records Act, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.05 CERTIFICATION FOR UNAVAILABLE RECORDS.
   With respect to records which are determined not to be available, the
Records Access Officer will certify upon the request form that the town does
not possess the record or that it could not be found after diligent search, and
return one copy of the form to the requester.
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
§ 36.06 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF REQUEST.
   Whenever a request for disclosure is denied by the person responsible for
release decisions, the person making the request may appeal the decision to the
Town Council.
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
§ 35.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   Records may be inspected only at the office or location where such records
are regularly maintained.
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
§ 35.08 EXEMPT RECORDS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby exempts certain records from public
disclosure, unless access to the records is specifically required by a state or
federal statute or is ordered by a court order under the rules of discovery.
   (B)   Such exempted records are as follows:
      (1)   Those declared confidential by state statute;
      (2)   Those declared confidential by rule adopted by a public agency
under specific authority to classify public records as confidential granted to
the public agency by statute;
      (3)   Those required to be kept confidential by federal law;
      (4)   Records containing trade secrets, confidential commercial
information, or confidential financial information;
      (5)   Investigatory records of law enforcement agencies;
      (6)   The work product of attorneys representing the town, Council
members, or any employees;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used in
administering a licensing examination before the examination is given or if it
is to be given again;
      (8)   Scores of tests or license examinations if the person is identified
by name and has not consented to the release of his or her scores;
      (9)   Records that contain inter-agency or intra-agency advisory or
deliberative material that are expressions of opinion or are of a speculative
nature, and that are communicated for the purpose of decision-making;
      (10)   Diaries, journals, or other personal notes serving as the
functional equivalent of a diary or journal;
      (11)   Personnel files of public employees, except for:
         (a)   The name, compensation, application for employment or
appointment, job title, business address, business telephone number, job
description, education and training background, previous work experience, or
dates of first and last employment of present or former officers or employees
of the agency;
         (b)   Information relating to the status of any formal charges against
the employee; and
         (c)   Information concerning disciplinary actions in which final
action has been taken and that resulted in the employee being disciplined or
discharged.
         (d)   However, all personnel file information shall be made available
to the affected employee or his or her representative;
      (12)   Administrative or technical information that would jeopardize a
record-keeping or security system;
       (13)   Computer programs, computer codes, computer filing systems, and
other software that are owned by the public agency or entrusted to it;
      (14)   Records specifically prepared for discussion, or developed during
discussion in an executive session under I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1;
      (15)   The identity of a donor of a gift made to a public agency if the
donor requires nondisclosure of his or her identity as a condition of making
the gift;
      (16)   Library records which can be used to identify any library patron;
and
      (17)   Any other records which current or future legislation allows a
public agency to exempt. Further action by the Town Council is unnecessary.
(Res. passed 9-22-93)
CHAPTER 36: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
36.03   Administration
   
36.04   Schedule of fines adopted
   
36.05   Violator entitled to trial; procedure
   
36.06   Noncompliance; enforcement
   
36.07   Penalties and ordinance violations filed with the Ordinance Violations
Bureau
   Appendix: Exhibit “A”
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Ordinance Violations Bureau, pursuant to I.C.
33-6-3-1 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 5-6-98)
§ 36.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations Clerk,
who administers the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 5-6-98)
§ 36.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Violations Clerk and his or her staff, as agents, shall accept
written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and payment of
civil penalties of not more than $50 in ordinance violation cases, subject to
the schedule of civil penalties adopted under §
36.04 of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-6-3-1(d))
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted, and accounted for by the
Clerk under procedures provided for by the state board of accounts. Payment of
civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person or by mail to the
Violations Clerk.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 5-6-98)
§ 36.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES ADOPTED.
   The schedule of code and ordinance violations which shall be subject to
admission of violation before the Violations Clerk is hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter. Copies of the schedule shall be available for public
inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, as attached hereto as Exhibit
“A.”
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 5-6-98)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of code and ordinance violation fines, see the appendix to this
Chapter 36
§ 36.05 VIOLATOR ENTITLED TO TRIAL; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance or municipal violation of those
town code provisions set out in §
36.04 of this chapter, is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by
civil trial rules, unless that person waives the right to a trial and enters an
admission of the violation with the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon such an
admission, the Clerk-Treasurer shall assess and receive from the violator the
penalty amount as prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties set out in §
36.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   If a person charged with a violation as set out in §
36.04 of this chapter desires to exercise the right to a trial, that person
shall appear before the Clerk-Treasurer and deny the violation or enter a
written denial with the Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after receiving
citation therefor.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 5-6-98)
§ 36.06 NONCOMPLIANCE; ENFORCEMENT.
   If a person either denies an ordinance violation or code violation as set
out in this chapter, or fails to pay and satisfy the civil penalty assessed
within 30 days from filing with the Clerk-Treasurer, or fails to deny or admit
the violation of any of the town code set out in §
36.04 of the chapter, within 30 days from the filing, then the Clerk-Treasurer
shall report this fact to the Town Attorney who may then initiate an action to
enforce the ordinance.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 5-6-98)
§ 36.07 PENALTIES AND ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS FILED WITH THE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
BUREAU.
   (A)   The penalties prescribed in §
36.04 shall only apply when an alleged violator elects to admit an ordinance
violation and pays the prescribed fine to the Ordinance Violations Clerk. §
36.04 shall not amend or supersede any other penalty sections of the Town Code
of the Town of Paoli.
   (B)   If the alleged violator elects not to admit an ordinance violation,
the Town shall have the right to bring suit against the alleged violator
seeking fines and costs greater than those permitted under §
36.04, which are otherwise authorized by the Town Code of the Town of Paoli.
APPENDIX — “EXHIBIT A”
   SCHEDULE OF CODE AND ORDINANCE BUREAU VIOLATIONS
   1.   § 71.01. Violations under Chapter 72, Schedules I (angle parking), II
(parking prohibited), and III (parking restricted—two hours)
A.   If paid within two business days after the date of violation (a business
day is Monday through Friday, except for legal holidays)   $ 5
B.   If paid after two business days but before the filing of an action
         with the court   $ 15
   2.   §
71.01. Violations under
Chapter 72, Schedule IV (reserved handicap parking)
      A.   All violations   $ 50
   3.   §
71.02. Violations under §
71.02 (parking improper vehicles)
      A.   All violations   $ 50
   4.   Chapter 90. Violations under Chapter 90 (animals)
      A.   All violations   $ 25
CHAPTER 37: TOWN BOUNDARIES
Section
   
37.01   The surveyed legal description for all of Paoli, Indiana.
   
37.02   Map
§ 37.01 THE SURVEYED LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR ALL OF PAOLI, INDIANA.
   The surveyed legal description for all of Paoli, Indiana, as it exists
January 1, 2014, is as follows:
   (A)   A part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter and a part of
the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 12, Township 1 North,
Range 1 West, Orange County, Indiana, described as follows: commencing at the
northwest corner of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of said
section; thence east, with the north line of said section, a distance of
1035.69 feet to west line of Julie L. Hopper as recorded in Instrument 121683,
and THE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence south, with the west lines of said Hopper,
Angela K. Slaten as recorded in deed record 158, page 217, Justin P. Marshall
as recorded in Instrument 080342 and Clyde W. and Pat S. Chastain as recorded
in deed record 124, page 218 a total distance of 490 feet to the southwest
corner of said Chastain; thence continue south to a point on the south line of
the trustees of the Paoli United Methodist Church as recorded in deed record
108, page 507; thence east, with the south line of said church and with the
south line of Clyde W. and Pat S. Chastain as recorded in deed record 98, page
588, a distance of 930.5 feet to the southeast corner of said Chastain; thence
north, with the east line of said Chastain, Eldon L. and Kathy J. Seacat as
recorded in deed record 484, page 85 and Bonnie Dickey as recorded in deed
record 153, page 7 a total distance of 990 feet to the north line of said
section; thence West, with, said north line, to the point of beginning.
Containing 21 acres, more or less, in said Section 12.
   (B)   ALSO: Section 1, Township 1 North, Range 1 West, Orange County,
Indiana, except that part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
said Section 1, heretofore conveyed to the United States of America described
as follows: beginning at the southeast cornet of said Section 1; thence west,
with the south line of said section, a distance of 673 feet to the west line of
said United States of America; thence north, with said west line, a distance of
871 feet to the centerline of Lick Creek; thence easterly, with the meanderings
of said Lick Creek, to the east line of said section; thence south, with the
east line of said section, to the point of beginning. Containing 677 acres,
more or less, after said exception.
   (C)   ALSO: A part of Section 2, Township 1 North, Range 1 West, Orange
County, Indiana, described as follows: beginning at the southeast corner of
said section; thence west, with the south line of said section to the southwest
corner of the east half of the southwest quarter; thence north, with the west
line of said east half to the northwest corner of said east half, said point
being on the south line of Max and Vicky Pluris as recorded in instrument
103256; thence east, with the north line of said east half and with the south
line of said Pluris’, to the southeast corner of said Pluris’; thence north,
with the east line of said Pluris’ to the southeast comer of John H. and Joyce
Lindley as recorded in instrument 103255; thence north, with the east line of
said Lindley’s to the northeast corner of said Lindley’s, said point being in
the centerline of Lick Creek; thence westerly, with said centerline and north
line of said Lindley’s to the southeast corner of Barbara Ann McBride, et al as
recorded in instrument 070452; thence with the south lines of said McBride,
Daniel A. Smith as recorded in instrument 072955, David A. and Kathy A. Padgett
as recorded in instrument 073420; thence continuing on an extended south line
of said Padgett’s, bisecting the property of Raymond and Jane E. Weller as
recorded in deed record 159, pages 79-80, Kenneth Minton as recorded in deed
record 131, pages 608-609 and Starr, Inc. as recorded in deed record 149, page
509 to a point on the west line of said Starr, Inc., said point being 373 feet
south of the north quarter corner of said Section 2; thence north, with the
west line of said Starr, Inc. to the north quarter corner of said Section 2;
thence east, with the north line of said Section 2 to the northeast corner of
said section; thence south, with die east line of said section to the point of
beginning. Containing 152 acres, more or less.
   (D)   ALSO: A part of the northwest quarter, northeast quarter and southwest
quarter of Section 6, Township 1 North, Range 1 East, Orange County, Indiana,
described as follows: beginning at the northwest corner of said Section 6;
thence east, with the north line of said section to the west right-of-way of
Triangle Road; thence southwesterly, with said right-of-way, to the
intersection of the north right-of-way of U.S. Highway 150; thence southerly,
across said Highway, to the northeast corner of Knob Hill Subdivision; thence
south. 05 degrees 06.5 minutes east, with the east line of said subdivision, a
distance of 767.1 feet; thence continue with said east line of said
subdivision, south 13 degrees 42.5 minutes west a distance of 226 feet to the
centerline of Lick Creek, said point being the southeast corner of said
subdivision; thence westerly, with the meanderings of Lick Creek 2389 feet,
more or less, to die west line of said Section 6; thence North, with the west
line of said section, to the point of beginning. Containing 242 acres, more or
less.
   (E)   ALSO: A part of the south half of Section 31, Township 2 North, Range
1 East, Orange County, Indiana, described as follows: beginning at the
southwest comer of said Section 31; thence east, with the south line of said
section, to the west right-of-way of Triangle Road; thence northeasterly and
northwesterly, with said right-of-way line and northwesterly extended right-of-
way line to the centerline of State Road 56, said point being the southeast
corner of the unrecorded Country View Subdivision; thence with the east line of
said subdivision the following three courses: (1) north 10 degrees 57.8 minutes
west a distance of 285 feet, (2) north 03 degrees 29.5 minutes west, 215.6 feet
and (3) north 00 degrees 13 minutes west, 805.8 feet to the northeast corner of
said unrecorded subdivision; thence south 89 degrees 18.2 minutes west, with
the north line of said subdivision, a distance of 657.3 feet to the centerline
of Marshall Road; thence northeasterly, with said centerline, a distance of 235
feet, more or less, to the east line of the southwest quarter of said Section
31; thence west, parallel with the north line of the southwest quarter of said
section, a distance of 2730 feet, more or less, to the west line of said
section; thence south, with the west line of said section to the point of
beginning. Containing 157 acres, more or less.
   (F)   ALSO: A part of Section 36, Township 2 North, Range 1 West, Orange
County, Indiana, described as follows: beginning at the northwest corner of
said Section 36; thence south, with the west line of said section to the
southwest corner of said section; thence east, with the south line of said
section to the southeast corner of said section; thence north, with the east
line of said section, to the southeast corner of Lot 9 of Gardners Valley View
2nd Addition to the Town of Paoli, Indiana; thence west, with the south line of
said addition, a distance of 1121.29 feet to the southwest corner of Merrill
and Arija Weseman as recorded in deed record 137, pages 100-102; thence north,
with the west line of said Weseman, a distance of 617.6 feet; east a distance
of 667.90 feet to a point on die east line of Lot 7 of said addition; thence
north, with the east line of Lots 7 and 6, a distance of 682.6 feet to the
northeast corner of Smokie Weeks as recorded in deed record 170, pages 205-209;
thence west, with the north line of said Weeks, to the east right-of-way of the
abandoned C. I. and L. Railroad; thence north 68 degrees 22 minutes west a
distance of 80 feet to the centerline of said railroad; thence northeasterly,
with said centerline, to the north line of said Section 36; thence west, with
the north line of said section, to the north sixteenth corner of the northwest
quarter of said section; thence south, with the quarter-quarter line, a
distance of 363 feet to the centerline of Sandyhook Road, said point being the
southeast corner of Orange County 4-H Club Association, Inc. as recorded in
instrument 080019; dience northwesterly, with the south line of said 4-H Club,
to the north line of said section ; thence west, with said north line, to the
point of beginning. Containing 547 acres, more or less.
   (G)   ALSO: A part of Section 35, Township 2 North, Range 1 West, Orange
County, Indiana, described as follows: beginning at the northeast corner of
said Section 35; tiience south, with the east line of said section, to the
southeast corner of said section; thence west, with the south line of said
section, to the west bank of Lick Creek; thence northwesterly, with the
meanderings of said centerline, to the west line of said section; thence north,
with the west line of said section, to the west quarter of said section, said
point being the southwest corner of Herbert R. Stevens & James C. Tucker as
recorded in deed record 145, pages 185-186; thence with the boundary line of
said Stevens and Tucker the following five courses: (1) east, with the south
line of the northwest quarter of said section, a distance of 653 feet, (2)
north, parallel with the west line of said section, a distance of 1370 feet,
(3) north 45 degrees east 380.37 feet, (4) east a distance of 1881.7 feet to
the east line of said northwest quarter and (5) north, with the east line of
said northwest quarter, a distance of 1003 feet to the north quarter of said
section; thence east, with the north line of said section to the point of
beginning.
      (1)   EXCEPT, that property conveyed to Elsie K. Mullis C/O Rael Oil,
Inc. as recorded in deed record 151, page 54. Containing 563 acres, more or
less.
   (H)   ALSO: a part of the southeast quarter of Section 34, Township 2 North,
Range 1 West, Orange County, Indiana, described as follows: beginning at the
intersection of the east line of said section and the north bank of Lick Creek;
thence northwesterly, with the meanderings of said north bank, to the east line
of Omer and Rita Nicholson, LLC as recorded in instrument 110067, said point
being 224 feet south of the southeast corner of the Newberry Church as recorded
in deed book B, pages 340-341; thence north, with the east line of said
Nicholson’s, a distance of 224 feet to die southeast corner of said church;
thence north, with the east line of said church, to the north right-of-way of
the abandoned Chicago, Indianapolis and Louisville Railroad; thence
southeasterly, with said north right-of-way, to the east line of said Section
34; thence south, with the east line of said section, to the point of
beginning. Containing 18 acres, more or less.
   (I)   Containing 2377 acres, more or less, in total in the Town of Paoli,
Indiana, January 1, 2014.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-14)
§ 37.02 MAP.
   A corporation boundary map prepared Indiana Region 15 Planning Commission
which is consistent with the real estate description set forth above shall be
kept on file at the Town of Paoli, Indiana, and shall be the official town map
of the Town of Paoli, effective as of January 1, 2014.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-14)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRICITY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Meter deposit for electrical service and other fees
Rates and Charges
   
50.10   Residential (town and rural)
   
50.11   Commercial (town and rural)
   
50.12   Power (town and rural)
   
50.13   Municipal
   
50.14   Municipal street lighting service
   
50.15   Security light service
   
50.16   Deficiency policy
Appendix: Adjustments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 METER DEPOSIT FOR ELECTRICAL SERVICE AND OTHER FEES.
   (A)   The required deposit for the initial provision of electrical service
to the customer by the town which must be paid prior to service being provided
by the town shall be $400.
   (B)   Other charged fees are as follows:
      (1)   Disconnect/reconnect and cost of non-defective meter:
         (a)   During regular business hours - $30.
         (b)   When a lineman is required for the service - $100 per person.
      (2)   After hours call-out fee - $100.
      (3)   Meter test fee - $25.
(Ord. 1994-5, passed 12-14-94; Am. Ord. 2019-03, passed 7-16-19; Am. Ord. 2022-
14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-30-23)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.10 RESIDENTIAL (TOWN AND RURAL).
   (A)   Availability. Available for single-phase residential service,
including all lighting, cooking, water heating, refrigeration, residential air
conditioning, and all household appliances up to three horsepower in single
unit of electric motors.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 cycle, at a voltage of
approximately 115 volts two-wire, or 115/230 volts three-wire, where available.
   (C)   Rates.
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND
CHARGES
Rate           Rate Components Present Rates New Rate   Rates Effective:
Classification                               Components 2/1/2023 2/1/2024
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND CHARGES
Rate           Rate Components  Present Rates New Rate        Rates Effective:
Classification                                Components      2/1/2023 2/1/2024
Residential    Customer charge  —           Customer charge $5.00    $10.0 0
               (per month)                    (per month)
              Minimum charge   $1.45                                 
              Energy charge                 Energy charge            
               (per kWh)                      (per kWh)
                 First 30 kW$0.10470      First 300 kWh   $0.1320  $0.1418
                 Next 30 kWh$0.07090      Next 700 kWh    $0.1021  $0.1045
                 Next 440 kW$0.05180      Over 1,000 kWh  $0.0945  $0.0930
                 Next 500 kW$0.04440                              
                 Over 1,000 $0.03810                              
               kWh
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2022-14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
01, passed 1-30-23)
§ 50.11 COMMERCIAL (TOWN AND RURAL).
   (A)   Availability. Available for all lighting and appliances in business,
factories, hotels, tourist camps, rooming and boarding houses, offices, public
buildings, circuses and shows.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 cycle, at a voltage of
approximately 115 volts two-wire, or 115/230 volts three-wire, where available.
   (C)   Rates.
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND
CHARGES
Rate           Rate Components Present Rates New Rate   Rates Effective:
Classification                               Components 2/1/2023 2/1/2024
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND CHARGES
Rate           Rate Components  Present Rates New Rate        Rates Effective:
Classification                                Components      2/1/2023 2/1/2024
Commercial     Customer charge  —           Customer charge $10.00   $15.00
               (per month)                    (per month)
              Minimum charge   $1.61                                 
              Energy charge                 Energy charge            
               (per kWh)                      (per kWh)
                 First 30 kW$0.10470      First 300 kWh   $0.1420  $0.1560
                 Next 30 kWh$0.07090      Next 700 kWh    $0.1245  $0.1450
                 Next 400 kW$0.06450      Next 1,500 kWh  $0.1 00  $0.1283
                 Next 500 kW$0.05820      Over 2,500 kWh  $0.1040  $0.0995
                 Over 1,000 $0.05180                              
               kWh
 
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2022-14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
01, passed 1-30-23)
§ 50.12 POWER (TOWN AND RURAL).
   (A)   Availability. Available through one meter to any customer having a
monthly energy requirement of 35,000 kWh or more in at least three months of a
12-month period.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current having a frequency of 60
cycles furnished in accordance with the provisions set forth.
   (C)   Rate.
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND
CHARGES
Rate           Rate Components Present Rates New Rate   Rates Effective:
Classification                               Components 2/1/2023 2/1/2024
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND CHARGES
Rate           Rate Components   Present Rates New Rate       Rates Effective:
Classification                                 Components     2/1/2023 2/1/2024
               Customer charge                 Customer
Power Service  (per month)       $ —         charge (per    $50.00   $100.00
                                               month)
              Minimum charge    $3.00                                
               (per meter)
              Energy charge                  Energy charge           
               (per kWh)                       (per kWh)
                 First 50 kWh$0.098300     First 10,000   $0.1430  $0.1560
                                               kWh
                 Next 100 kWh$0.07830      Next 10,000    $0.1315  $0.1403
                                               kWh
                 Next 150 kWh$0.07090      Over 20,000    $0.1000  $0.0950
                                               kWh
                 Next 200 kWh$0.06450                             
                 Next 500 kWh$0.05820                             
                 Next 9,000 k$0.04760                             
                 Next 10,000 $0.04440                             
               kWh
                 Over 20,000 $0.04120                             
               kWh
 
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2022-14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
01, passed 1-30-23)
§ 50.13 MUNICIPAL.
   Availability. All prior municipal rate classification customers will move to
commercial rate classification.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2022-14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
01, passed 1-30-23)
§ 50.14 MUNICIPAL STREET LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available for service to street lighting facilities for
the Town of Paoli only.
   (B)   Rate.
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND
CHARGES
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND
CHARGES
                                        2/1/2023 2/1/2024
Street Lighting Fixed charge (per month):          
                  Under 20,000 lumens $3.95    $4.25
                  Over 20,000 lumens  $11.00   $11.80
               Fixed charge (per year):           
                  Under 20,000 lumens $47.40   $51.00
                  Over 20,000 lumens  $132.00  $141.60
 
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2022-14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
01, passed 1-30-23)
§ 50.15 SECURITY LIGHT SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available to any customer within the area served by the
Paoli Electric Utility for outdoor lighting.
   (B)   Character of service. Dusk-to-dawn lighting service, using
photoelectric-controlled equipment, will be installed, operated and maintained
by the Utility.
   (C)   Rates.
 
TOWN OF PAOLI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC RATES AND
CHARGES
                                        2/1/2023 2/1/2024
Street Lighting Fixed charge (per month):          
                  Under 20,000 lumens $3.95    $4.25
                  Over 20,000 lumens  $11.00   $11.80
 
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2019-03, passed 7-16-19; Am. Ord. 2022-
14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-30-23)
§ 50.16 DEFICIENCY POLICY.
   (A)   Deficiencies. The Town Electric Department may issue a deficiency
notice to any town resident whose service does not meet the requirements of
state law, federal law, any town policy and/or ordinance, or any service that
poses a safety threat/hazard. It shall be the responsibility of the Electric
Foreman of the town to determine whether a deficiency exists.
   (B)   Deficiency notice. A notice of deficiency (the “notice”) will be sent
by the Town Clerk-Treasurer to any town resident that is found in violation of
this chapter. The notice will list any and all deficiencies that need to be
corrected and the amount of time the violator has to correct the deficiencies.
The amount of time to correct deficiencies will be determined by the Electric
Foreman of the town and will be dependent on the safety threat of the
deficiency.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   A disconnection of service may occur if a person is found in
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section and fails to correct the
deficiency in the amount of time specified in the notice.
      (2)   An immediate disconnection may occur if the Electric Foreman of the
town determines that a resident’s deficiency poses a severe and immediate risk
to the public or property owner.
(Ord. 2012-12, passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 2022-14B, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
01, passed 1-30-23)
APPENDIX: ADJUSTMENTS
RATE ADJUSTMENT            (Applicable to Rates: Residential, Commercial, and
Power)
The Rate Adjustments shall be on the basis of a Purchase Power Cost Adjustment
Tracking factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost of purchased power and
energy, in accordance with the Order of the Indiana Utility Regulatory
Commission, approved December 13, 1989 in Cause No. 36835-S3. The Tracking
Factor shall be applicable to rates R, C, and P.
This tracker will be effective for all energy consumed during the billing
period.
      Rate Adjustment applicable to the         
      above listed Rate Schedule            $.00000 per KWH used per month
FUEL COST ADJUSTMENT      (Applicable to Rates: Residential, Commercial, and
Power)
The fuel cost adjustments in dollars per kilowatt hour shall be the same as
most recently billed to the Paoli Municipal Electric Utility by its purchased
power supplies, less $0.000000 per KWH.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2022-14B, passed 12-6-22)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Proper discharge of sewage
   
51.03   Private sewage disposal system
   
51.04   Sewer permits; building sewer specifications
   
51.05   Illegal discharges
   
51.06   Tampering with sewage works equipment
   
51.07   Inspection; right of entry
   
51.08   Notice of violation
   
51.09   Liability for expenses
Pretreatment of Wastes
   
51.20   Conformance with city and subsequent state or federal rules and
regulations
   
51.21   Pretreatment or control facilities; submission of plans, specifications
and other information
   
51.22   Discharging unpolluted water into storm or combined sewer
   
51.23   Industrial cooling water
   
51.24   Wastewater flows and characteristics; information
   
51.25   Determination of strength of wastewater; charges
   
51.26   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps
   
51.27   Notification of unusual flows or wastes
   
51.28   Compliance with state and federal requirements
Discharge of Sewage and Sludge
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Discharge of sewage and sludge prohibited
Rates and Charges
   
51.40   User charges
   
51.41   Quantity of water discharged
   
51.42   Strength and content of sewage discharge
   
51.43   Billing procedure
   
51.44   Review of rates and charges
   
51.45   Additional rules and regulations; enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
1 utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water
or other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (also called house connection).
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or
other clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries both storm, surface, groundwater
runoff, and wastewater.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial
degree is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Paoli, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage.”
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard, and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash
waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Pub. L. 92-500, § 307(a), being 33 USC 1317(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. This term is permissive.
   NH3N. The same as ammonia nitrogen measured as nitrogen. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
“Standard Methods” as defined in this section.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to Pub. L. 92-500, § 402, being 33 USC 1345.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. For the purpose of determining surcharges, shall
mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows: BOD
not more than 200 mg/l.; S.S. not more than 200 mg/l. As defined by origin,
wastewaters from segregated domestic or sanitary conveniences are distinct from
wastes from industrial processes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   PHOSPHORUS or P. The chemical element phosphorus.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries wastewater and to which storm,
surface, groundwaters and unpolluted industrial wastewater are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying wastewater and other liquids.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. That portion of this chapter which regulates the
connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. This term is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater” prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface, and groundwater drainage
but excludes wastewater.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN. The Town of Paoli, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to Pub. L. 92-500, § 307(a), being 33
USC 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to 33 USC 1284(b).
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which based on a determination by the town
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious or educational function which, based on a determination
by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1,
passed 2-10-94; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-18-14)
§ 51.02 PROPER DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwaters, surface water, ground water,
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary
combined or storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream
sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment plant including
capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby required at
his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet of the
property line.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.02(G), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) of this
section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to such sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 SEWER PERMITS; BUILDING SEWER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In
either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $25 for a residential
or commercial building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is
filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. FD-5 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface run-off or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. FD-5. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the inspector or
his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (L)   The town shall prohibit any new connections from inflow sources into
the sanitary sewer portions of the sewerage system and shall ensure that new
sewers and connections to the sanitary sewers are properly designed and
connected.
   (M)   Construction of new combined sewers is prohibited.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94; Am. Ord. 2014-
03, passed 3-18-14) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers.
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plan.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having the pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, mild containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinder.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies or jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5.
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (A) of this section, and
which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon
the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
         (a)   Require new industries (or other large users) or industries (or
other large users) with significant increase in discharges to submit
information on wastewater quantities characteristics and obtain prior approval
for discharges.
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town.
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined.
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the state water pollution control agencies, and the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (“U.S. EPA”) shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing.
   (E)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standards Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at such control which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA (40 CFR 136). In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined
from periodic grab samples.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) of this section, the Superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in §
51.05(E).
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94)
§ 51.08 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by
reason of such violation.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTES
§ 51.20 CONFORMANCE WITH CITY AND SUBSEQUENT STATE OR FEDERAL RULES AND
REGULATIONS.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“U.S.
EPA”) (40 CFR 403), and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis
of Pollutants” (40 CFR 136), in addition to any more stringent requirements
established by the town and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 PRETREATMENT OR CONTROL FACILITIES; SUBMISSION OF PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS
AND OTHER INFORMATION.
   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 DISCHARGING UNPOLLUTED WATER INTO STORM OR COMBINED SEWER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools, shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the State of
Indiana. Where a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural sewer is not
available, such unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending
written approval by the town.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.22.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 WASTEWATER FLOWS AND CHARACTERISTICS; INFORMATION.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and characteristics.
Such measurements, tests, and analysis shall be made at the users expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94)
§ 51.25 DETERMINATION OF STRENGTH OF WASTEWATER; CHARGES.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the Rate Ordinance, from samples taken at the
aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and in much
manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be
assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling
and analysis by the user may also be used for the determination of charges
after verification by the town.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94)
§ 51.26 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS OR TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be
gastight, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 NOTIFICATION OF UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidently or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.28 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be in effect.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94)
DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE AND SLUDGE
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise clearly indicated by its context, the words and terms
defined in this subchapter shall have the specified meanings.
   SEPTAGE. The liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank, cesspool,
portable toilet, or a similar system that receives sewage.
   SEWAGE. Liquid and solid waste carried off in sewers or drains.
   SEWAGE SLUDGE. A solid, semi-solid or liquid residue generated during the
treatment of sewage in a treatment works.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 3-18-08)
§ 51.36 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE AND SLUDGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The treatment, storage, disposal, and/or land application of sewage or
sewage sludge, and products derived from sewage or sewage sludge, are
prohibited in the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the discharge of sewage or sewage
sludge by the town into any facility owned and/or operated by the town for the
disposal of septage generated within the town.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 3-18-08) Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.40 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover from each user
and user class revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United State Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
service life of the sewage works equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the
purposes of this subchapter shall be as follows:
         Class I:   —    Residential
               —    Commercial
               —    Governmental
               —    Institutional
               —    Industrial
   (B)   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the town. Such rates and surcharges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed
monthly (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the
amount of such rates and charges shall be determined shall be as follows for
all users:
         (a)   Metered users.
   Monthly Base Charge
Meter Size Charge
   Monthly Base Charge
Meter Size                    Charge
5/8 - 3/4 inch                $19.77
1 inch                        $45.82
1¼ inch                      $71.84
1½ inch                      $103.12
2 inch                        $176.00
3 inch                        $401.67
4 inch                        $696.77
6 inch                        $1,582. 11
   Monthly Flow Charge
All users (per 1,000 gallons) $7.58
 
         (b)   Unmetered users (per month).
 
Residential single-family           
(assuming 3,375 gallons per month) $45.35
 
         Apartments, other multi-residence buildings, and multiple residences
located on one property and/or parcel (that are not considered to be an
apartment or other multi-residence buildings) shall pay on a monthly basis the
5/8 inch meter size rate times the number of units.
         (c)   Monthly surcharges.
 
Biological oxygen demand (BOD) $0.32/lb in excess of 200 mg/l
Suspended solids (SS)          $0.43/lb in excess of 200 mg/l
Ammonia (NH 3)                 $0.72/lb in excess of 30 mg/l
 
      (2)   Apartments and other multi-residence buildings shall pay on a
monthly basis the 5/8 inch meter size rate times the number of units.
      (3)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
      (4)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the
town shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring but not less than $25
per sampling event. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other
rates and charges in this subchapter.
   (C)    Late payment charge. All bills for sewage works, not paid within ten
days after the bill is mailed, shall be subject to a late payment charge of
10%.
   (D)   Failure to pay; remedies/liens.  Failure to pay bills for sewage works
within ten days after the payment is due, the amount thereof, together with a
penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorneys’ fee, may be recovered by the town in
a civil action and/or by filing a sewer lien for each property that is left
with an outstanding balance as provided in I.C. 36-9-23-34.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1998-12, passed 11-18-98; Am. Ord. 2001-
3, passed 2-6-01; Am. Ord. 2010-04, passed 5-11-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-
6-11; Am. Ord. 2014-16, passed 10-7-14; Am. Ord. 2014-21, passed 12-16-14; Am.
Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-22)
§ 51.41 QUANTITY OF WATER DISCHARGED.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates.
   (B)   Further, as is provided in this division, the town may make proper
allowances in determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the
records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the
town that such quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
      (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall at his
or her expense install and maintain meters, wires, volumetric measuring devices
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
the determination of sewage discharge.
      (2)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall at his or her expense
install and maintain meters, wires, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
      (3)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall at his or her expense install and maintain meters,
wires, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (4)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-15)
§ 51.42 STRENGTH AND CONTENT OF SEWAGE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage, and the town shall require the user to determine the
strength and content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or
indirectly into the sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the
town may deem practicable in the light of the conditions and attending
circumstances of the case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user
shall furnish a central sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 mg/l or suspended solids in excess of 200 mg/l. Additional
charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the
following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $.48 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 200 mg/l.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $.34 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
200 mg/l.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, 40 CFR 136,
published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-86)
§ 51.43 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly. At the end of each year, each user shall be given a notice of the
rates charged for operation, maintenance and replacement for the user in the
next year.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants; provided, that such examination shall
be made at the office at which such records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-86)
§ 51.44 REVIEW OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first 2 years of operation,
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include but not be limited to an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the sufficiency of the revenues to
properly operate the wastewater treatment facility and all appurtenances
attached thereto, and maintaining proportionality among the user classes of the
rates and charges for sewerage studies.
   (C)   The studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town,
or by a firm of certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting
engineers, which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such
combination of officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers
as the town shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-86)
§ 51.45 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations, sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewerage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of
such rates and charges. No free service shall be provided to any user of the
water treatment facility.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewerage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods of
affecting pretreatment of such wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the NPDES permit issued to the sewage works.
   (C)   The Town Council is further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and such special rates shall be based on
such costs.
   (D)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approved by
the Town Council, shall among other things provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator
of the user charge to the Town Council and that any decision concerning user
charges of the Town Council may be appealed to the circuit court of the county
under the appeal procedures provided for in the Indiana Administrative
Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-12-86)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial review of administrative adjudications, see I.C. 4-21.5-5
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating or suspected of violating §
51.02(B) shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or fraction thereof
in which the violation occurs).
      (2)   A person may avoid payment of such penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
51.04(J) for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
51.02(B).
      (3)   A person consenting to such an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
51.02(B) without being subject to a penalty.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and in conviction thereof shall be fined
in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
51.36 is guilty of a Class A infraction.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 5-12-86; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-94; Am. Ord. 2008-
04, passed 3-18-08)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Items prohibited from pickup
   
52.02   Trash container defined
   
52.03   Trash containers prohibited on public sidewalks
Rates and Charges
   
52.15   Service charges for collection and removal of refuse
   
52.16   Charges added to utility bill; direct billing
   
52.17   Failure to pay charges; remedies
   
52.18   Revenue deposited in fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 ITEMS PROHIBITED FROM PICKUP.
   The garbage service shall not include any of the following:
   (A)   Any items not in containers.
   (B)   Any garbage not drained of free liquid or wrapped in several
thicknesses of paper.
   (C)   Hot ashes.
   (D)   Any liquids.
   (E)   Tree limbs.
   (F)   Any broken concrete, asphalt, building materials or earth.
   (G)   Hot water heaters, auto parts, furniture, appliances, carpet or any
other extraordinary items.
   (H)   Wood manufacturing products.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 10-2-89; Am. Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-15-98)
§ 52.02 TRASH CONTAINER DEFINED.
   A TRASH CONTAINER shall mean a container for temporarily storing waste,
which is usually made out of metal or plastic, and is capable of holding two or
more cubic yards of waste.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-19-10)
§ 52.03 TRASH CONTAINERS PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Prohibition. Trash containers maintained by users of a building in the
town shall not obstruct any of the public sidewalks or streets within the town.
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this section, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a
fine of not more than $500 and not less than $50. Each day any violation shall
continue shall cause a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-19-10)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 SERVICE CHARGES FOR COLLECTION AND REMOVAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on each owner, tenant or occupant of
residential or commercial property in the town, to whom municipal refuse and
garbage collection is made available by the town directly, or through any
person, firm or corporation with which the town may contract for the furnishing
of such service, a service charge for the collection and removal of refuse and
garbage according to the schedule set forth in division (B).
   (B)   Schedule of rates.
      (1)   For a one-family dwelling or churches, $13 per month.
      (2)   For a multi-family or apartment dwelling, $13 per dwelling unit per
month, is the base charge which may be varied according to number of pickups
per week. However, if the town bills the apartment as a whole and not
individually, there is a 20% discount from what the charge would be if each
apartment unit were billed individually.
      (3)   For mobile home or trailer court, $13 per dwelling unit per month.
However, if the town bills the court as a whole and not individually, there is
a 20% discount from the charge if each separate dwelling unit were billed.
      (4)   For commercial establishments, with a 2 cubic yard container or
less, $32.50 per container per pickup, per week.
      (5)   For commercial establishments, with a 3 cubic yard container,
$45.50 per container per pickup, per week.
   (C)   Service charges as specified above shall be added to the utility bill
charges and shall be payable as are bills for water, sanitation service and
electricity. Such charges may be waived, on a case-by-case consideration, by
the Town Council.
   (D)   The refuse and garbage service shall not include picking up any of the
following:
      (1)   Trash, refuse and garbage brought in from outside the corporate
limits of the Town of Paoli.
      (2)   Hazardous chemicals, as defined by I.C. 13-11-2-94; hazardous
household products as defined by I.C. 13-11-2-95; hazardous material, as
defined by I.C. 13-11-2-96; hazardous substances, as defined by I.C. 13-11-2-
98; or, hazardous waste, as defined by I.C. 13-11-2-99.
      (3)   Any items not either bagged in plastic bags or in containers
approved by the Town of Paoli.
      (4)   Any garbage not drained of free liquid or wrapped in several
thicknesses of paper.
      (5)   Hot ashes.
      (6)   Any liquids.
      (7)   Tree limbs.
      (8)   Any broken concrete, asphalt, building materials or earth.
      (9)   Hot water heaters, auto parts, furniture or any other extraordinary
items.
      (10)   Wood manufacturing products.
   (E)   In the event any recipient of municipal refuse and garbage collection
service is not a recipient of municipal water service or electric service and
does not therefore receive a utility bill, said recipient will be billed
directly for said service and said bill will be payable on the same basis as
are bills for municipal water and electricity service.
   (F)   Failure to pay service charges for refuse and garbage collection and/
or violation of this chapter shall be grounds for discontinuance of refuse and
garbage collection service, and, in addition, the town may pursue any one of
the following remedies:
      (1)   If said service charge or any part thereof shall not be paid within
30 days after the payment is due, the amount thereof, together with a penalty
of 10% and a reasonable attorneys’ fee, may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the name of the town, and provided in I.C. 36-9-30-21.
      (2)   If any service charge remains unpaid for a period of six months,
said charges may be certified to the Auditor of Orange County for placement
upon the tax duplicate by the Auditor and collection as taxes are collected, as
provided by Indiana Code.
   (G)   Revenue from service charge collections will be deposited in a
separate fund. Only payments of costs incident to the service will be made from
this fund. Any surplus accumulating in this fund will be retained to apply to
any increases in the cost of providing the service, or to permit reduction in
service charges, by action of the Town Council when feasible.
   (H)   No garbage container (other than 2 and 3 cubic yard containers) shall
weigh more than 20 pounds empty.
   (I)   The town may direct location of containers and bags for pickup.
   (J)   The town has the right to require a customer to provide a 2 or 3 cubic
yard container in order for the customer to have his or her trash taken by the
town.
   (K)   Customers must keep containers in good condition for the town to pick
up trash from the customer.
   (L)   A violation of this chapter is a Class B infraction.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 10-2-89; Am. Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-15-98; Am. Ord. 2007-
02, passed 6-5-07; Am. Ord. 2012-04, passed 2-21-12)
§ 52.16 CHARGES ADDED TO UTILITY BILL; DIRECT BILLING.
   (A)   Service charges as specified above shall be added to the utility bill
charges and shall be payable as are bills for water, sanitation service, and
electricity. Such charges may be waived on a case by case consideration by the
Town Council.
   (B)   In the event any recipient of municipal refuse and garbage collection
service is not a recipient of municipal water service or electric service and
does not therefore receive a utility bill, such recipient will be billed
directly for such service and such bill will be payable on the same basis as
are bills for municipal water and electricity service.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 10-2-89; Am. Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-15-98)
§ 52.17 FAILURE TO PAY CHARGES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   Failure to pay service charges for refuse and garbage collection shall
be grounds for discontinuance of refuse and garbage collection service, and in
addition, the town may pursue any one of the remedies set forth in division (B)
and (C) of this section.
   (B)   If the service charge or any part thereof shall not be paid within 30
days after the payment is due, the amount thereof, together with a penalty of
10% and a reasonable attorneys fee, may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the name of the town, and provided in I.C. 36-9-30-21.
   (C)   If any service charge remains unpaid for a period of six months, such
charges may be certified to the Auditor of Orange County for placement upon the
tax duplicate by the Auditor and collection as taxes are collected, as provided
by the Indiana Code.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 10-2-89; Am. Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-15-98)
§ 52.18 REVENUE DEPOSITED IN FUND.
   Revenue from service charge collections will be deposited in a separate
fund. Only payments of costs incident to the service will be made from this
fund. Any surplus accumulating in this fund will be retained to apply to any
increases in the cost of providing the service, or to permit reduction in
service charges, by action of the Town Council when feasible.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 10-2-89; Am. Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-15-98)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
   
53.01   Rates and charges
   
53.02   Conservation and rationing guidelines
   
53.03   Cross connection control
   
53.04   Fine for damaging meter reading equipment
   
53.05   Fire line systems
§ 53.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
    (A)   There shall be and there is hereby established for the use of, and
the service rendered by the waterworks system of the town the following
schedule of rates and charges, based upon the use of water supplied by the
waterworks system.
   (B)   The rates herein approved shall provide for a reasonable return on the
water utility plant of the town and such other legal and necessary expenses as
provided in I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.
   (C)   The Town Council hereby elects to pay the town, from water rates and
charges, payment in lieu of property taxes as provided in I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.
   (D)   Schedule of rates and charges.
      (1)   Metered user block schedule. In amounts not to exceed the
following:
 
Monthly Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,600 gallons  $14.68
Next 7,400 gallons   $13.94
Next 20,000 gallons  $12.92
Next 70,000 gallons  $11.26
Next 400,000 gallons $8.71
Over 500,000 gallons $6.14
 
      (2)   Metered user minimum schedule. In amounts not to exceed the
following:
   Minimum Charges
Meter Size Gallons Per Month
   Minimum Charges
Meter Size              Gallons Per Month
5/8-inch - ¾-inch meter2,500   $36.70
1-inch meter            6,420   $91.42
1½-inch meter          20,632  $278.69
2-inch meter            44,177  $559.36
3-inch meter            77,517  $934.77
4-inch meter            125,678 $1,411.5 8
6-inch meter            150,000 $1,623.4 2
 
      (3)   Fire protection service per annum.
         (a)   Annual charge per automatic sprinkler.
Automatic Sprinkler Rate
Automatic Sprinkler Rate
1-inch connection   $27.34
1½-inch connection $61.79
2-inch connection   $109.83
3-inch connection   $246.99
4-inch connection   $439.12
6-inch connection   $987.86
8-inch connection   $1,756.26
10-inch connection  $2,744.04
 
         (b)   Annual charge per fire hydrant. In amounts not to exceed the
following:
 
Type of Fire Hydrant           Annual Charge
Public hydrants - per hydrant  $195.00
Private hydrants - per hydrant $686.15
 
      (4)   Fire protection service per month.
Minimum Charges
Meter Size Monthly Charge
Minimum Charges
Meter Size     Monthly Charge
5/8-inch meter $6.05
1-inch meter   $15.37
1½-inch meter $30.74
2-inch meter   $48.32
3-inch meter   $91.15
4-inch meter   $151.54
6-inch meter   $302.00
 
      (5)   Late payment charge. All bills for water service or for public or
private fire protection, including sprinklers, not paid within ten days after
the bill is mailed shall be subject to a late payment charge of 10% of the
first $3.00 and 3% of the excess of $3.00.
      (6)   Connection charges. The minimum charge for connecting to the
Municipal Waterworks shall be as follows, payable at the time application for
connection is made:
 
Meter Size                            Charge
5/8-inch - ¾-inch meter              Cost of installation
Meters greater than 5/8-inch - ¾-inchCost of installation
 
      (7)   Disconnection charge.
         (a)   When the service is turned off by the town for nonpayment of the
customer’s account, or for any other justifiable reason, a disconnection fee of
$30 shall be charged to that customer by the town to cover the cost of
disconnection of service.
         (b)   When the service is turned off for temporary disconnection to a
customer’s account, no disconnection charge will be assessed to the customer,
but the town will continue to bill the minimum monthly water charge during the
temporary disconnection period.
      (8)   Reconnection charge.
         (a)   When the service is turned off by the town for nonpayment of the
customer’s account, or for any other justifiable reason, and a reconnection of
service is requested by the customer, a minimum charge of $30 shall be charged
to that customer by the town to cover the cost of reconnection of service.
         (b)   If the reconnection occurs after hours, an additional fee of $60
will be charged. The charges, together with any delinquent amounts due the town
and any security deposit required by the town, shall be paid by the customer in
full before service will be reconnected.
         (c)   In the event of a temporary disconnect taking place, when the
customer requests a reconnection of service, no fee will be assessed.
      (9)   Deposit. Each user shall pay a deposit of $100, which shall be
returned upon discontinuance of service, after deduction of any unpaid bill for
utility services.
      (10)   Dishonored checks.  Any check issued by the customer that is
returned for non-sufficient funds or account closed will be required to pay a
charge of $20. All returned checks must be redeemed by cash, a cashier’s check,
a certified check or a money order. The customer will be put on a cash-only
list and will not be allowed to write a check for six months.
      (11)   Temporary users.  Water furnished to temporary users, such as, but
not limited to, contractors, fairs, circuses and the like, shall be charged for
the basis of the above quantity rates as estimated by the Waterworks
Superintendent.
      (12)   Free service. No free service of the water system shall be
permitted. Each residence, each commercial establishment and each industry
shall by individually metered.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed 10-21-91; Am. Ord. 2004-4, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 2011-
06, passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 2013-07, passed 11-19-13; Am. Ord. 2019-02, passed
5-8-19; Am. Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 53.02 CONSERVATION AND RATIONING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   From time to time climatic and other conditions, both natural and man-
made, may arise or occur which cause a temporary shortage of water, and such
conditions may affect the ability of the town’s public water systems to provide
an adequate supply of water or where the public water supply may be unable to
maintain adequate water pressure in the delivery system; and In such an event
it is imperative to the well-being of the customers/residents of the town’s
public water system that the use of water not essential to the health, welfare
and safety of the town’s public water system and its customers/residents be
restricted.
   (B)   Application. These guidelines shall apply to all persons, firms,
partnerships, associations, corporations, companies or organizations of any
kind connected to the town’s public water system or using water therefrom
(hereafter, users).
   (C)   Declaration of need. Upon determining that the town’s public water
system is in imminent danger of a shortage of water or is experiencing a
shortage of water, the governing body shall declare a water conservation
emergency and establish the appropriate conservation measures and the duration
thereof.
   (D)   Voluntary conservation. In accordance with division (H) below, users
shall be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing voluntary
conservation techniques. The governing body shall suggest reasonable and
meaningful actions, which will alleviate existing or potential water shortage.
   (E)   Mandatory conservation. In accordance with division (H) below, users
shall be prohibited from the water uses listed below, subject to reasonable
terms, times and conditions as the governing body shall determine:
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass,
ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation;
      (2)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad
cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or other
outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
      (5)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental
fountains; and/or
      (6)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
   (F)   Rationing. In addition to the mandatory conservation measures
identified in division (E) above and in accordance with division (H) below,
users shall be limited to water use per the following schedule:
      (1)   Residential use shall be limited to 100 gallons per person per day.
      (2)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to a
percent of the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the
preceding year. Business, commercial or industrial users that were not in
business and operating in the area served by the town’s public water system
more than one year prior to the declaration of need shall be restricted to 80%
of the average monthly volume of water used during the number of months such
business, commercial and industrial user was in business and operating in the
public water system area.
   (G)   Exceptions. The governing body of the town’s public water system
reserves the right to establish alternative rationing requirements for the
following:
      (1)   Health care providers.
      (2)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards.
      (3)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be
necessary for the public health and well-being.
   (H)   Notice. Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by
publication in a local newspaper of general circulation or other means as
deemed appropriate by the governing body. Said notice shall be effective upon
publication. Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first
class United States mail, or by other door-to-door distribution to each current
user, and by electronic and print media. Said notice shall be deemed effective
at the conclusion of door-to-door distribution, or at noon of the third day
after depositing same in the United States mail.
   (I)   Enforcement. Water service may be terminated for any user who violates
divisions (E) or (F) above.
(Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-2-02)
§ 53.03 CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   Definition. A CROSS CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical
connection or arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which
contains potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a
private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or
chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Town Council
and by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in accordance with
327 IAC 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of
all properties served by the public water system where cross connections with
the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspection based on potential health hazards involved shall be established by
the Town of Paoli.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town shall
have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property
served by a connection to the town’s public water system for cross connections.
On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so served shall
furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping
system or systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of
requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of
cross connections.
   (E)   The Town of Paoli is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of this
chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system. Water
service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on the
owner, lessee or occupants of the property or premises where a violation is
found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the Town of Paoli that a cross connection or an
emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquid; all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced-pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main waterline serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   This chapter does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Codes and the
IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10, but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 7-2-02)
§ 53.04 FINE FOR DAMAGING METER READING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Paoli, Indiana shall be responsible
for the administration of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Town of Paoli, Indiana shall charge the property owner the expense
of the repairs and/or replacement of its meter reading equipment in an amount
to be determined on a case-by-case basis by the Town of Paoli Clerk-Treasurer.
The anticipated cost of current replacement (September 2016) is approximately
$160.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer, upon notice of damage to its meter reading
equipment, will issue a notice of violation to the property owner and set forth
the anticipated cost of repair and/or replacement to be charged to the property
owner. Said notice may be hand delivered or sent via certified mail.
   (D)   A person who violates any provision of §
53.04 may, upon conviction, also be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500, in
addition to any enforcement processes contained in the subchapter.
   (E)   Any appeal of the repairs and/or replacement of meter reading
equipment must be made in writing, within ten calendar days of the date of
notice of the proposed repair and/or replacement, to the Town Council, which
shall set the matter for hearing. The hearing may be at a special meeting of
the Town Council or any regular scheduled meeting of the Town Council. After
the hearing, the Town Council shall issue its written findings. Any appeal from
written findings of the Town Council must be made to a court of competent
jurisdiction located in Orange County, Indiana, within 60 calendar days of the
issuance of its written findings by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-20-16)
§ 53.05 FIRE LINE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Private fire lines and/or private fire protections systems shall be
installed and maintained at the expense of the property owner/customer. The
Town of Paoli is responsible for that section of the fire line that is from the
main valve to the tap. The property owner is responsible for the fire line and
all appurtenances thereto from the fire protection valve to the building.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for the repair of the fire lines
that are damaged as a part of the property owner's maintenance or repair work.
The Town of Paoli shall not be held liable or responsible for any losses or
damage resulting from fire or water which may occur due to the installation of
a private fire service system or any leakage or flow of water therefrom.
   (C)   Before any modifications any made to any private fire protection
system or fire line or before service is furnished to any new fire protection
system or fire line, connected to or proposed to be connected to and supplied
with water from the town water utility's distribution mains, final plans shall
be filed with and approved by the town. The following shall he shown on the
plans:
      (1)   The number of sprinkler heads to be served.
      (2)   The sizes and locations of the system's piping.
      (3)   The sizes and locations of all connections to the utility's
distribution mains.
      (4)   The sizes, locations, and types of all valves.
      (5)   The sizes and locations of all hose connections, reels or cabinets.
      (6)   The sizes and locations of storage tanks connected to the system.
      (7)   The outlet sizes and locations of all fire hydrants.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
53.05 shall, upon conviction, become liable to the Town of Paoli for any
expense, loss, or damage by reason of the violation including without
limitation, material costs, labor costs, and/or reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the Town of Paoli for collection of the account.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
53.05, shall upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500 for the
first violation and a fine not exceeding $7,500 for a second or subsequent
violation of the section. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 2-9-21)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
74.   ATV, DIRT BIKE, AND GO CART USE PROHIBITED
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Weight restrictions for vehicles operated on town streets
   
70.03   Skateboard use prohibited
   
70.04   Golf carts, utility vehicles, and motorized bicycles
   
70.05   Speed limits of vehicles in public parks
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Title VII, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Means and includes every individual who shall operate a vehicle as
the owner thereof or as the agent, employee or permittee of the owner.
   PERSON. Means and includes any individual, firm, co-partnership or
corporation.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway, alley or other
public place located in the town.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a highway, except a device which is operated upon rails or
tracks.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 3- -70; Am. Ord. 1991-2, passed 5-8-91)
Statutory reference:
   State definitions, see I.C. 9-13-2-118, 9-13-2-124, 9-13-2-175, and 9-13-2-
196
§ 70.02 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS FOR VEHICLES OPERATED ON TOWN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to
operate a motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 15 tons on any
street of the town.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 5-8-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SKATEBOARD USE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, SKATEBOARD shall be defined as a piece of
board or other material to which roller skate wheels are attached.
   (B)   To protect the citizens of and visitors to the town, the use of a
skateboard is prohibited upon the public streets, alleys and sidewalks within
the town.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 GOLF CARTS, UTILITY VEHICLES, AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by
Indiana or any other state.
      FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on licensed
drivers of a golf cart, UTV, or motorized bicycle or unlicensed drivers of a
golf cart, UTV, or motorized bicycle that are eligible for coverage on their
parent or guardian's liability insurance in an amount not less than required by
Indiana law for motor vehicles operated on public highways in the State of
Indiana.
      GOLF CART.  A vehicle with four wheels, originally designed for operation
on a golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
      MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A two or three wheeled vehicle that is propelled by an
internal combustion engine or a battery powered motor, and if powered by an
internal combustion engine, has the following: (1) An engine rating of not more
than two horsepower and a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic centimeters;
(2) An automatic transmission; and (3) A maximum design speed of not more than
25 miles per hour on a flat surface. The term does not include an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
      UTILITY VEHICLE (UTV).  A vehicle, generally motorized, that is designed
for a specific task and popularly referred to as a “UTV”.
   (B) Registration.
      (1)   All persons operating a golf cart, UTV, or motorized bicycle within
the town must have it registered annually with the Paoli Police Department.
      (2)   The annual registration form shall be completed in person at the
Paoli Police Department between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday (excluding holidays).
      (3)   Such annual registration form shall require the: name of the owner;
his/her address and telephone number; date of birth of operator; the make,
model and serial number; and the color, size, and other identifying
characteristics.
      (4)   Upon completion of registration form and payment of registration
fee, the Paoli Police Department shall issue a registration decal which shall
be on the vehicle in a location clearly visible. Such registration decal shall
remain affixed to the vehicle at all times the vehicle is in operation within
the town.
      (5)   The registration fee shall be $25. All registration fees shall be
placed in a fund to be used by the Police Department.
      (6)   Paoli Police Department shall not issue the registration or decal
until all required items are submitted and payment is made.
   (C)   Operation of golf carts and UTVs. Only persons over 16 years of age
and have in their possession a valid driver’s license may operate a golf cart
or UTV with the town.
   (D)   Operation of motorized bicycle. Only persons over 15 years of age and
have in their possession a valid identification issued by the Indiana Bureau of
Motor Vehicles.
   (E)   Financial responsibility. All operators of golf carts, UTVs, and
motorized bicycles who are licensed to operate a motor vehicle in the State of
Indiana or unlicensed operators of a golf cart, UTV, or motorized bicycle that
are eligible for coverage on their parent or guardian's liability insurance are
required to have liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than
required by Indiana law for motor vehicles operated on public highways in the
State of Indiana. Written proof of financial responsibility must be available
either on the vehicle or on the person of the licensed operator at all times.
   (F)   Time of operation. Golf carts, UTVs, and motorized bicycles shall not
be operated on city streets during one-half hour before sunrise to one-half
hour before sunset, unless the with operating headlights (one for motorized
bicycles and two, one on each side, for golf carts and UTVs) in the front, and
operating tail lights with operating brake lights which are visible from a
distance of 500 feet (one for motorized bicycles and two, one on each side, for
golf carts and UTVs).
   (G)   Place of operation. 
      (1)   Golf carts, UTV’s, and motorized bicycles may be operated on city
streets with a posted speed limit of 30 miles per hour or less.
      (2)   Golf carts, UTV’s, and motorized bicycles may not be operated on
sidewalks, and may only be operated on highways to cross them at intersections
in a path 90 degrees to such highways.
   (H)   Occupants.
      (1)   The number of occupants shall be limited to the number of persons
for whom factory seating is installed.
      (2)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated with no part of the
body extending outside the perimeter of the golf cart, UTV, or motorized
bicycle.
   (I)   Traffic rules. The operator of the golf cart, UTV, and motorized
bicycle shall comply with all traffic rules and regulations adopted by the
state and the town that govern the operation of motor vehicles.
   (J)   Golf Cart, Utility Vehicle, and Motorized Vehicle Fund. Establishment;
function. The Town Council hereby creates a Golf Cart, Utility Vehicle, and
Motorized Vehicle Fund which shall be a revolving fund, and all monies paid
shall be placed in the fund and in no other place. The monies also shall not
revert to the General Fund but shall remain in the Golf Cart, Utility Vehicle,
and Motorized Vehicle Fund. Any money generated from this fund can be used at
the discretion of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2013-12, passed 11-5-13; Am. Ord. 2014-
08, passed 7-15-14; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-7-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 SPEED LIMITS OF VEHICLES IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   Speed limit in parks. The maximum speed limit for motor vehicles being
driven in any town park and/or on park property shall be 15 miles per hour. Any
speed in excess thereof shall be unlawful and may result in an ordinance
violation.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-15-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter 70 shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
70.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined $50 for the first violation.
Second and subsequent violations will result in a fine of $100. In the event of
a continuing or maintaining of a violation of any division of §
70.04, any person, firm or corporation causing or maintaining the nuisance
shall upon conviction, be fined in a sum of $500.
   (C)   Any speed in excess of that codified in §
70.05 shall be unlawful and may result in an ordinance violation being issued
against the driver of the vehicle with a fine issued in the amount of $50. The
assessed fine shall be payable at the Paoli Police Department within 30 days in
full satisfaction of the assessed penalty. In the event that such payment is
not made within the period prescribed, and, at the discretion of the Police
Chief and the Town Attorney, proceedings may be filed in the county court of
competent jurisdiction. If found in violation of § 
70.05, the violator shall be responsible for the $50 fine, court costs,
interest, and attorney fees, if applicable. Funds generated from the assessed
fines shall be placed in a fund to defray the expenses incurred by the town and
the Paoli Police Department to defray the expenses of enforcing §
70.05.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 5-8-91; Am. Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-20-91, and Codification
Change; Am. Ord. 2009-01, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-15-13;
Am. Ord. 2013-12, passed 11-5-13; Am. Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-15-14; Am. Ord.
2014-08, passed 7-15-14)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum fine ($500) for Class C infractions, see I.C. 34-4-32-4
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Designation of restricted parking
   
71.02   Parking of vehicles (motorized and unmotorized) on the streets, alleys,
and rights-of-way
   
71.03   Authority of police to enforce parking regulations
   
71.04   Parking on public sidewalks prohibited
   
71.05   Parking restrictions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Definitions applicable to Title VII, see §
70.01
§ 71.01 DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   The Town Council, by resolution duly adopted as prescribed by law,
shall designate from time to time the hours for parking vehicles upon the
various streets, highways and alleys in the town, and the Town Council shall
locate and prescribe the various zones on the public streets, highways and
alleys of the town for the parking of vehicles as aforesaid and shall designate
and prescribe the limit for such parking by installing appropriate signs in
proximity to such parking spaces on such streets, highways and alleys.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to
cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of or
operated by such person to be parked overtime in such parking areas so
designated by the Town Council as provided in division (A).
   (C)   The parking restrictions as set forth in the agreement between the
town and the State Department of Transportation is adopted as the parking
restrictions for the outside of Paoli Square (Court Street) and the first block
of West Main Street.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 3- -70; Am. Ord. 1991-2, passed 5-8-91; Am. Ord. 1998-2,
passed 5-6-98) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 72
§ 71.02 PARKING OF VEHICLES (MOTORIZED AND UNMOTORIZED) ON THE STREETS, ALLEYS,
AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The following vehicles, if properly parked in other respects, may park
on the streets, alleys and rights-of-way of the town:
      (1)   Cars;
      (2)   Vans and mini vans;
      (3)   Motorcycles;
      (4)   Sport utility vehicles; and
      (5)   Pick-up trucks, including dual wheeled pick-up trucks (pick-up
trucks may have “toppers” which do not extend above the roof line of the cab or
the length of the bed but may not have campers or other permanent fixtures that
extend above the roof line of the cab or beyond the length of the bed).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle, whether
motorized or unmotorized on the streets, alleys and rights-of-way of the town,
other than for the limited purpose of loading or unloading, for a period not to
exceed one hour, which vehicle is not specifically described in division (A) of
this section. No vehicle having a trailer or other attachment, including those
mentioned in division (A) of this section, shall park on the streets, alleys
and rights-of-way of the town, other than for the limited purpose of loading or
unloading, for a period not to exceed one hour.
   (C)   The police officers of the town are hereby given the responsibility of
enforcing the provisions of this section and they shall have the right, at
their discretion, to tow away and store any vehicle parked or left unattended,
as in this section provided and contrary to the terms and provisions thereof.
All costs and charges for the towing and/or storage of such vehicles so removed
shall be charged to the owners or operators thereof.
   (D)   Any person who violates a provision of this section shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation.
(Ord. 1998-10, passed 9-2-98) Penalty, see §
71.99  
§ 71.03 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The (police officers) of the town are hereby ordered and directed to
carry into effect all regulations governing the parking of vehicles as shall
from time to time be adopted by the Town Council under the terms and provisions
of this chapter and shall enforce all of the terms of such regulations
authorized by the terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 3- -70; Am. Ord. 1991-2, passed 5-8-91)
   (B)   The Town Council shall, from time to time, appoint as necessary
special police officers, not being regular police officers, for the limited
purpose of enforcing parking regulations, as the parking regulations may, from
time to time, be adopted as ordinances or resolutions of the town.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 5-6-98)
§ 71.04 PARKING ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this section for a person to park on any of the
public sidewalks within the town.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-19-10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Parking regulations. No motor vehicle of any kind shall be permitted
to park at any time in the Town Paoli as follows:
      (1)   In a space designated by the town as a handicapped parking zone,
unless the vehicle parked in that zone is a vehicle authorized to be parked in
a handicapped parking zone, by permit, for handicap parking;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or in a designated fire zone;
      (3)   It shall be illegal to park a vehicle with a missing or expired
license plate;
      (4)   Parking at a meter space longer than the designated time limit;
      (5)   Parking in a zone designated for the use of motor buses or other
means of public transportation;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of any intersection;
      (7)   Facing the wrong direction;
      (8)   Opposite the flow of traffic;
      (9)   Parked in a lane used by moving traffic;
      (10)   More than 12 inches from the curb;
      (11)   At an improper angle;
      (12)   In a posted no-parking zone by signs and lines;
      (13)   In a manner that obstructs a crosswalk or sidewalk;
      (14)   In front of or in a private driveway;
      (15)   On a sidewalk or curb;
      (16)   In a manner that blocks entrance to or exit from a garage;
      (17)   In a manner that obstructs or blocks vehicular or pedestrian
traffic;
      (18)   In an area designated as prohibited parking by temporary
regulations, when signs are erected giving notice;
      (19)   In a designated street sweeping area; and
      (20)   In a designated loading zone.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Paoli Police Department shall be charged with the
enforcement of this section.
   (C)   Penalty for violation.
      (1)   Any individual or company parking in the above-listed areas shall
receive an ordinance ticket from the town by a police officer. The officer may
determine it necessary to request vehicles parked in violation of this section
be towed.
      (2)   The fine shall be $50 per violation. Vehicle owner(s) shall be
responsible for all towing fees incurred as a result of violating this section.
      (3)   The fine shall be payable at the Paoli Police Department. In the
event said fine is not paid in the time allowed, or detested, at the discretion
of the Police Chief and the Town Attorney, the ordinance violation may be filed
in court and the violator, upon a finding of guilty, shall be responsible for
the $50 fine, court costs, and attorney fees, if applicable.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-7-15)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §
71.01 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
71.02 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person who fails to satisfy a judgment entered against him for the
violation of any traffic ordinance under this chapter within 60 days of the
entry of a judgment shall have his or her driver’s license suspended pursuant
to the provision of I.C. 34-4-32-4(h). In such instances, the court shall
forward notice of the suspension to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §
71.04, for which no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall, upon
conviction thereof, pay a fine of not more than $500 and not less than $50.
Each day any violation shall continue shall cause a separate offense.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed - -98; Am. Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-19-10)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Angle parking
      
II.   Parking prohibited
      
III.   Parking restricted
      
IV.   Reserved handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I. ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Thirty-five degree angle parking. All vehicles shall be parked at 35-
degree angle parking on the outer edge of the Town Square (Court Street) in the
following locations:
Location Distance (Ft.) Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                    Distance (Ft.) Ord. No. Date Passed
From a point 25 feet north of the north
edge line of US 150, SR 56 (West Main
Street) to a point 75 feet north of the     50             1998-2   5-6-98
north edge line of US 150, SR 56 (West Main
Street)
From a point 25 feet west of the west edge
line of South Gospel Street to a point 65   40             1998-2   5-6-98
feet west of the west edge line of South
Gospel Street
From a point 25 feet south of the south
edge line of US 150, SR 56 (East Main
Street) to a point 75 feet south of the     50             1998-2   5-6-98
south edge line of US 150, SR 56 (East Main
Street)
From a point 25 feet east of the east edge
line of SR 37 (North Gospel Street) to a    45             1998-2   5-6-98
point 70 feet east of the east edge line of
SR 37 (North Gospel Street)
From a point 35 feet north of the north
edge line of US 150, SR 56 (East Main
Street) to a point 120 feet north of the    85             1998-2   5-6-98
north edge line of US 150, SR 56 (East Main
Street)
From a point 40 feet west of the west edge
line of SR 37 (North Gospel Street) to a    100            1998-2   5-6-98
point 140 feet west of the west edge line
of SR 37 (North Gospel Street)
From a point 35 feet south of the south
edge line of US 150, SR 56 (West Main
Street) to a point 130 feet south of the    95             1998-2   5-6-98
south edge line of US 150, SR 56 (West Main
Street)
From a point 35 feet east of the east edge
line of South Gospel Street to a point 125  90             1998-2   5-6-98
feet east of the east edge line of South
Gospel Street
 
   (B)   Ninety-degree angle parking. All vehicles shall be parked at 90-degree
parking on the outer edge of the Town Square (Court Street), except for the
locations in division (A) of this section and where parking if prohibited.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 5-6-98) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times on the Town Square (Court Street)
in the following locations:
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                     Ord. No. Date
                                                                      Passed
On the outer edge of the north side from the east edge line
of SR 37 (North Gospel Street) to a point 25 feet east of    1998-2   5-6-98
the east edge line of SR 37 (North Gospel Street)
On the outer edge of the west side from the south edge line
of US 150, SR 56 (West Main Street) to a point 35 feet south 1998-2   5-6-98
of the south edge line of US 150, SR 56 (West Main Street)
Within ten feet of the curblines of the alleys in the        1998-2   5-6-98
southwest, southeast and northeast corners
Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection             1998-2   5-6-98
Within 30 feet upon approach to a “STOP” sign or traffic 1998-2   5-6-98
signal
On the outer edge of the north side from the west edge line
of SR 37 (North Gospel Street) to a point 40 feet west of    1998-2   5-6-98
the west edge line of SR 37 (North Gospel Street)
On the outer edge of the west side from the north edge line
of US 150, SR 56 (West Main Street) to a point 25 feet north 1998-2   5-6-98
of the north edge line of US 150, SR 56 (West Main Street)
On the outer edge of the south side from the west edge line
of South Gospel Street to a point 25 feet west of the west   1998-2   5-6-98
edge line of South Gospel Street
On the outer edge of the south side from the east edge line
of South Gospel Street to a point 35 feet east of the east   1998-2   5-6-98
edge line of South Gospel Street
On the outer edge of the east side from the south edge line
of US 150, SR 56 (East Main Street) to a point 25 feet south 1998-2   5-6-98
of the south edge line of US 150, SR 56 (East Main Street)
On the outer edge of the east side from the north edge line
of US 150, SR 56 (East Main Street) to a point 35 feet north 1998-2   5-6-98
of the north edge line of US 150, SR 56 (East Main Street)
On the north side of East Water Street between First and     2000-4   12-19-00
Second Streets
On Elm Street, south of the stop light                       2004-07  9-7-04
South Oak Street from Elm Street to SR 37                    2004-07  9-7-04
West side of Josephine Street from Cherry to Oak             2015-04  5-7-15
West side of Sycamore Street from Maple to Oak               2015-04  5-7-15
West side of Southeast Second Street from East Water to      2015-04  5-7-15
Stace
South side of Fair Street from Southeast First to Southeast  2015-04  5-7-15
Second
North side of Fair Street from Southeast Second to 150 East  2015-04  5-7-15
South side of Fair Street from 150 East to Roosevelt         2015-04  5-7-15
West side of Northeast First Street from East Campbell to    2015-04  5-7-15
East Main
Both sides of Virginia Avenue                                2015-04  5-7-15
Both sides of Locust Street                                  2015-04  5-7-15
South side of Monon Drive                                    2015-04; 5-7-15;
                                                             2021-13  9-7-21
East side of Poe Street                                      2015-04  5-7-15
South side of Mable Street                                   2015-04  5-7-15
Both sides of Barnard Street                                 2015-04  5-7-15
Both sides of West Thornton Street                           2015-04  5-7-15
East side of Northwest Second Street                         2015-04  5-7-15
Both sides of Walnut Street                                  2015-04  5-7-15
North side of Hudleson Street                                2015-04  5-7-15
South side of Stace Street                                   2015-04  5-7-15
East side of Southeast First Street from Stace to Hudleson   2015-04  5-7-15
Both sides of Braxton Street from dead-end to Southeast      2015-04  5-7-15
First
South side of Braxton Street to Southeast First to Southeast 2015-04  5-7-15
Third
Both sides of Braxton Street from Southeast Third to         2015-04  5-7-15
Southeast Fourth
North side of Braxton Street from Southeast Fourth to        2015-04  5-7-15
Atchley
Both sides of Horton Avenue from North Gospel to Poe         2015-04  5-7-15
North side of Horton Avenue from Poe to Northwest Fourth     2015-04  5-7-15
Both sides of South Gospel Street from the Strauss-Tucker    2023-07  10-17-23
Bridge to Highway 37
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE III. PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Two-hour parking, 6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m only. Parking shall be
restricted to two hours from 6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. on the outer edge of the
Town Square (Court Street) in the following locations:
Location Side Distance (Ft.) Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                Side             Distance (Ft.) Ord. No. Date Passed
From a point 25 feet
north of the north edge
line of US 150, SR 56
(West Main Street) to a West             110            1998-2   5-6-98
point 135 feet north of
the north edge line of
US 150, SR 56 (West
Main Street)
From a point 35 feet
south of the south edge
line of US 150, SR 56
(West Main Street) to a West             95             1998-2   5-6-98
point 130 feet south of
the south edge line of
US 150, SR 56 (West
Main Street)
From a point 25 feet
west of the west edge
line of South Gospel
Street to a point 115   South            90             1998-2   5-6-98
feet west of the west
edge line of South
Gospel Street
From a point 35 feet
east of the east edge
line of South Gospel
Street to a point 125   South                          1998-2   5-6-98
feet east of the east
edge line of South
Gospel Street
From a point 25 feet
south of the south edge
line of US 150, SR 56
(East Main Street) to a East             100            1998-2   5-6-98
point 125 feet south of
the south edge line of
US 150, SR 56 (East
Main Street)
From a point 35 feet
north of the north edge
line of US 150, SR 56
(East Main Street) to a East             85             1998-2   5-6-98
point 120 feet north of
the north edge line of
US 150, SR 56 (East
Main Street)
From a point 25 feet
east of the east edge
line of SR 37 (North
Gospel Street) to a     North            95             1998-2   5-6-98
point 120 feet east of
the east edge line of
SR 37 (North Gospel
Street)
From a point 40 feet
west of the west edge
line of SR 37 (North
Gospel Street) to a     North            100            1998-2   5-6-98
point 140 feet west of
the west edge line of
SR 37 (North Gospel
Street)
From a point 40 feet
east of the east edge
line of SR 37 (West
First Street) (RP       North (West Main
#134+15) to a point 180 Street)          140            1998-2   5-6-98
feet east of the east
edge line of SR 37
(West First Street) (RP
#134+18)
 
   (B)   Fifteen-minute parking. Parking shall be restricted to 15 minutes on
the following street:
 
Location                              Side  Distance (Ft.) Ord. No. Date Passed
South side of US 150, SR 56 (West
Main Street) from a point 40 feet
east of the east edge line of SR 37
(West First Street) (RP #134+15) to a South 140            1998-2   5-6-98
point 180 feet east of the east edge
line of SR 37 (West First Street) (RP
#134+18)
 
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 5-6-98) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE IV. RESERVED HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   The following locations on or near the Town Square (Court Street) shall be
designated as “Reserved Handicapped Parking”:
 
Location                     Distance (Ft.)                Ord. No. Date Passed
On the south side of US 150,
SR 56 (West Main Street)
from a point 40 feet east of
the east edge line of SR 37
(West First Street) (RP      22 (1 parallel parking space) 1998-2   5-6-98
#134+15) to a point 62 feet
east of the east edge line
of SR 37 (West First Street)
(RP #134+154)
On the west side of Court
Street from a point 118 feet
south of the south edge line
of US 150, SR 56 (West Main  12 (1 angled parking space)   1998-2   5-6-98
Street) to a point 130 feet
south of the south edge line
of US 150, SR 56 (West Main
Street)
 
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 5-6-98) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 73: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Exempt from ordinance
   
73.03   Abandonment prohibited
   
73.04   Removal authority designated
   
73.05   Liability for abandonment
   
73.06   Impoundment and sale conditions - value under one hundred dollars
   
73.07   Impoundment and sale conditions - value over one hundred dollars
   
73.08   Preparation of report
   
73.09   Disposal procedure - value under one hundred dollars
   
73.10   Disposal procedure - value over one hundred dollars
   
73.11   Impoundment costs
   
73.12   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
73.13   Emergency situations
   
73.14   Exempt from liability
   
73.15   Administrative liability
   
73.16   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. When used in conjunction with the term vehicle, means:
      (1)   Any vehicle located on public premises which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto or displayed thereon a valid unexpired license plate and
inspection sticker permitting its operation upon the highways of the State of
Indiana.
      (2)   Any vehicle which is parked or located on public premises
continuously without being moved for a period of 72 hours, except before the
legal or temporary residence of the owner.
      (3)   Any vehicle located on public premises illegally or in such manner
as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or other
vehicle traffic on a public right-of-way, street or highway.
      (4)   Any vehicle that remains on private premises without the consent of
the owner or person in control of such premises, for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   Any vehicle that is over five years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left unattended on private premises in a location which is
visible from public premises or private premises of another for more than 14
days.
      (6)   Any vehicle from which there has been removed the engine or
transmission or differential or which is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left unattended on public premises.
      (7)   Any vehicle which has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
the ordinance codified in this chapter, the violation of which may require the
removal and impoundment of the motor vehicle, and which motor vehicle once
impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or his or her agent within 30
days of its removal.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKER. An automobile wrecking and parts business.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the State of Indiana.
   DISPOSAL AGENT. means any firm or individual engaged in the business as a
scrap metal processor or automobile wrecker.
   OFFICER. Any regular member of the Paoli Police Department.
   OWNER. The last known record title holder to a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the State of Indiana under the
provisions of I.C. 9-1-1.
   PARTS. All component parts of a vehicle which are in a state of disassembly,
or are assembled with other vehicle component parts, but which, in their state
of assembly, do not constitute a complete vehicle.
   PERSON. All natural persons, firms, partnerships and corporations.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All privately owned property which is not classified
within the definition of public premises in this section.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Bureau or local agency given the responsibility by ordinance
for the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county or municipally owned property.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSOR. An establishment having facilities for processing
iron, steel or nonferrous scrap and whose principal product is scrap iron and
scrap steel or nonferrous scrap for sale or remelting purposes.
   TOWING SERVICES. A business organized for the purpose of moving or removing
disabled motor vehicles and, once removed, to store or impound such motor
vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, truck trailer,
semitrailer, truck tractor, bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, motorized
bike, or parts from any said vehicles.
   VISIBLE. Located in an open area and not in a fully enclosed facility.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.02 EXEMPT FROM ORDINANCE.
   This chapter does not apply to the following.
   (A)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (B)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility.
   (C)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard.
   (D)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.03 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon his or her vehicle on any public premises or private
premises in a location which is visible from public premises.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 REMOVAL AUTHORITY DESIGNATED.
   The Police Department of the Town of Paoli is the authorized agency assigned
the responsibility for removing vehicles defined as abandoned under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.05 LIABILITY FOR ABANDONMENT.
   The person who owns an abandoned vehicle or parts is:
   (A)   Responsible for the abandonment; and
   (B)   Liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal of the vehicle or the parts thereof.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.06 IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE CONDITIONS - VALUE UNDER ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
   Any vehicle considered abandoned under the provisions of this chapter, which
in the officer’s opinion has a value of less than $100 shall be subject to
removal, impoundment and sale by the police department under the following
conditions. After making a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or persons
who may be in control of the abandoned vehicle by inquiring of other persons in
the neighborhood where the abandoned vehicle is located, such vehicles shall be
tagged by a police officer with a notice tag affixed in a prominent place on
such vehicle and the tag which shall be prepared by the Police Department and
shall contain the following information:
   (A)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed 72 hours thereafter,
impounded and subsequently disposed of;
   (C)   That the owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
the removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended;
   (D)   That the owner may avoid costs of suspension of registration
privileges by removal of the vehicle or parts within 72 hours; and
   (E)   The date, time, officer’s name and the address and telephone number of
the Police Department to contact for information.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.07 IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE CONDITIONS - VALUE OVER ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
   Any vehicle or parts considered abandoned under the provisions of this
chapter, which has in the officer’s opinion has a value of more than $100 shall
be subject to removal, impoundment, and sale by the police department, under
the following conditions. After making a reasonable effort to ascertain the
owner or persons who may be in control of the abandoned vehicle by inquiring of
other persons in the neighborhood where the abandoned vehicle is located, such
vehicles shall be tagged by a police officer with a notice tag affixed in a
prominent place on such vehicle and the tag which shall be prepared by the
Police Department shall contain the following information:
   (A)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours, impounded
and subsequently disposed of;
   (C)   That the owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
the removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid, the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended;
   (D)   That the owner may avoid costs or suspension of registration
privileges by removal of the vehicle or parts within 72 hours; and
   (E)   The date, time, officer’s name and the address and telephone number of
the Police Department to contact for information.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.08 PREPARATION OF REPORT.
   (A)   Photographs. If a vehicle or a part is tagged under §§
73.06 or
73.07 of this chapter and is not removed within the 72 hour period, the officer
shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts,
including information on the condition, missing parts, and other facts that
might substantiate the estimated market value of the vehicle or parts.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (B)   Report by officer. If a vehicle is towed, a copy of the abandoned
vehicle report, containing a description of the vehicle, the make, model,
identification number, number on the license plate, and photographs relating to
the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the bureau. Either the Paoli Police
Department or the storage lot shall request that the bureau advise the Paoli
Police Department or storage lot of the name and most recent address of the
person who owns or hold a lien on the vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.09 DISPOSAL PROCEDURE - VALUE UNDER ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
   If in the officer’s opinion the market value of an abandoned vehicle or
parts does not exceed the sum of $100, the Police Department shall within 72
hours after the value is determined to be under $100, the officer shall
immediately dispose of the vehicle to an automobile scrap yard. The Paoli
Police Department shall retain the original records and photographs for at
least two years.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.10 DISPOSAL PROCEDURE - VALUE OVER ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
   If in the officer’s opinion the market value of the abandoned vehicle or
parts is at least $100, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle
or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the
vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72
hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage
area. If the person who holds a lien upon a vehicle does not appear within 15
days after receiving notice by certified mail that this chapter has been
violated, the unit may sell the vehicle or parts by either of the following
methods.
   (A)   The Paoli Police Department may sell the vehicle or parts to the
highest bidder at a public sale. Notice of the sale shall be given under I.C.
5-3-1, except that only one newspaper insertion one week before the public sale
is required.
   (B)   If the property remains unclaimed for 15 days after given notice, the
Paoli Police Department may sell the vehicle or part as unclaimed property.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.11 IMPOUNDMENT COSTS.
   (A)   The owner of the motor vehicle shall be charged for towing or removing
the vehicle. These amounts shall be equivalent to the charges that the towing
agency charges for this service.
   (B)   Impoundment costs - assessment to owner. The requirements are as
follows:
      (1)   The proceeds of sale of an abandoned vehicle in accordance with
this chapter shall be credited against all costs incident to the removal,
storage and disposal of such vehicle.
      (2)   If such costs exceed the proceeds of sale, the Police Department
shall cause to be prepared and forwarded to the bureau a statement identifying
the vehicle and showing the costs incurred in the removal, towing, storage and
disposal of such vehicle, accompanied by the sale price thereof, and bearing a
certification that:
         (a)   The last owner of said vehicle was mailed a notice of the
removal and the pending disposition of the vehicle;
         (b)   The notice contained a statement of all the costs incidental to
such removal, storage and disposal; and
         (c)   Such costs remain unpaid.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.12 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   Establishment; function. There is created in the Town of Paoli Abandoned
Vehicle Fund which shall be a revolving fund, and all moneys paid to the town
for the cost or removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles shall be
placed in the fund and in no other place. The fund shall also have added to it
such moneys as may be appropriated by the common council and such moneys also
shall not revert to the General Fund but shall remain in the Abandoned Vehicle
Fund.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.13 EMERGENCY SITUATION.
   Not withstanding any other section, in an emergency situation a vehicle may
be removed immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that
the presence of the abandoned vehicle interferes physically with the conduct of
normal business operations of the property owner, impedes the property owner’s
use of the property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons,
property or both.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.14 EXEMPT FROM LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter.
   (A)   A person, other than the owner of the abandoned vehicle or parts, who
owns, leases, or occupies property from which an abandoned vehicle or parts are
removed.
   (B)   A public agency.
   (C)   A towing agency.
   (D)   An automobile scrap yard.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.15 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent, or employee of the Town of Paoli shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may occur to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties under this chapter. Any suit brought against any officer, agent or
employee of the town as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter shall be defended by the Town
Attorney until the final determination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.16 ENFORCEMENT.
The Paoli Police Department shall enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, persons, firm or corporation causing or violation any of the
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25
nor more than $100 for the first violation. Second and subsequent violations
will result in a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200. In the event of
a continuing or maintaining of a violation of any section of this chapter, any
person, firm or corporation causing or maintaining said nuisance shall upon
conviction, be fined in a sum not less than $500. Each day’s operation or
maintaining of the nuisance or any part thereof shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 8-20-13)
CHAPTER 74: ATV, DIRT BIKE, AND GO CART USE PROHIBITED
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Use of ATVs, dirt bikes, and/or go carts prohibited
   
74.03   Prohibited Vehicle Violation Fund
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATV). Every motorized, off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
      (3)   Is designed for travel on at least three non-highway or off-highway
tires;
      (4)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars for steering control.
   DIRT BIKE. Every two wheeled vehicle being capable of cross-country travel
on natural terrain without benefit of a road or trail.
   GO CART. Every motorized miniature vehicle capable of achieving speeds in
excess often miles per hour and commonly used on courses or race tracks
specifically designed for such vehicles.
   SIDEWALK. Every part of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians located in the town.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway, alley or other
public place located in the town.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 10-15-13)
§ 74.02 USE OF ATVS, DIRT BIKES, AND/OR GO CARTS PROHIBITED.
   To protect the citizens of and visitors to the town, the use of ATVs, dirt
bikes, and/or go carts is prohibited upon the public streets, alleys, and
sidewalks within the town.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 10-15-13) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 PROHIBITED VEHICLE VIOLATION FUND.
   Establishment; function. The Town Council of the Town of Paoli hereby
creates a Prohibited Vehicle Violation Fund which shall be a revolving fund,
and all monies paid shall be placed in the fund and in no other place. The
monies also shall not revert to the General Fund but shall remain in the
Prohibited Vehicle Violation Fund. Any money generated from this fund can be
used at the discretion of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 5-7-14)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined $50 for the first violation. Second and subsequent
violations will result in a fine of $100. In the event of a continuing or
maintaining of a violation of any section of this chapter, any person, firm or
corporation causing or maintaining the nuisance shall upon conviction, be fined
in a sum of $500.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 10-15-13; Am. Ord. 2014-09, passed 5-7-14)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop Intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Every driver of a vehicle, while driving a vehicle on the following
streets, avenues, and drives in the Town of Paoli, shall bring the vehicle to a
full and complete stop before entering the following street intersections:
Intersection Type of Stop
Intersection                                  Type of Stop
W. Main St. and W. Willow creek Rd.           1 way
W. Main St. and W. Hospital Rd.               1 way
Greenbriar Dr. and W. Hospital Rd.            1 way
Redbud St. and West Hospital Rd.              1 way
N. Cook St. and W. Hospital Rd.               1 way
N. Lincoln Dr. and W. Hospital St.            4 way
N. Lincoln Dr. and A St.                      1 way
N. Lincoln Dr. and B St.                      1 way
W. Longest St. and N. Sandyhook Rd.           1 way
W. Bernadine Dr. and N. Sandyhook Rd.         1 way
E. Hospital Rd. and N. Sandyhook Rd.          4 way
N. Daniel Ln. and N. Sandyhook Rd.            1 way
N. Daniel Ln. and N. Radcliffe Dr.            1 way
W. Charles St. and N. Radcliffe Dr.           1 way
Autumn Dr. and N. Radcliffe Dr.               1 way
N. Radcliffe Dr. and E. Hospital Rd.          1 way
E. Hospital Rd. and N. Gospel St.             1 way
W. Sibbitt St. and N. Sandyhook Rd.           1 way
W. Wilson St. and N. Sandyhook Rd.            1 way
W. Apache Dr. and N. Sandyhook Rd.            1 way
W. Slaten Dr. and N. Helm St.                 1 way
N. Helm and N. Sandyhook Rd.                  1 way
Paul St. and N. Sandyhook Rd.                 1 way
Paul St. and N. Gospel St.                    1 way
N. Sycamore St. and N. Gospel St.             1 way
N. Oak and N. Gospel St.                      1 way
Walnut St. and N. Oak St.                     1 way
N. Oak St. and N.E. 3rd St.                   2 way
Walnut St. and Locust St.                     1 way
Locust St. and N. Gospel St.                  1 way
Virginia Ave. and Walnut St.                  1 way
Virginia Ave. and N.E. 3ld St.                1 way
N. Sandyhook Rd. and N. Gospel St.            1 way
Virginia Ave. and N. Gospel St.               1 way
N. Sandyhook Rd. and W. Wainwright Ave.       1 way
W. Wainwright Ave. and W. faculty Dr.         1 way
W. Faculty Dr. and W. Faculty Dr.             1 way
W. Faculty Dr. and N. Helm St.                1 way
N. Helm St. and W. Wainwright Ave.            1 way
W. Mable St. and W. Wainwright Ave.           1 way
W. Mable St. and Barnard Ave.                 1 way
Maude St. and N. Poe St.                      1 way
Monon Dr. and N. Poe St.                      1 way
Monon Dr. and N. Gospel St.                   1 way
N. Helm St. and Horton Ave.                   1 way
Horton Ave. and N. Poe St.                    2 way
Horton Ave. and N. Gospel St.                 1 way
W. Thornton St. and N.W. 3rd St.              1 way
W. Thornton and N. Poe St.                    1 way
N.W. 1st St. and W. Thornton St.              1 way
W. Thornton St. and N. Gospel St.             1 way
E. Thornton St. and N. Gospel St.             1 way
Railroad Ave. and N. Gospel St.               1 way
Railroad Ave. and N.E. 1st St.                1 way
Railroad Ave. and N.E. 3rd St.                1 way
N.E. 3rd St. and Liberty St.                  1 way
Liberty St. and N.E. 2nd St.                  1 way
N.E. 2nd St. and E. Thornton St.              4 way
N.E. 3rd St. and E. Thornton St.              4 way
N.E. 3rd St. and N.E. Main St.                1 way
E. Campbell St. and N.E. Main St.             1 way
N.E. 1st St. and E. Thornton St.              2 way
E. Campbell St. and N.E. 1st St.              4 way
N.E. 2nd St. and E. Campbell St.              4 way
W. Thornton St. and NW. 4th St.               1 way
N.W. 1st St. and W. Campbell St.              4 way
N.W. 2nd St. and W. Campbell St.              1 way
N.W. 3rd St. and W. Campbell St.              1 way
N.W. 4th St. and W. Campbell St.              2 way
N.W. 5th St. and W. Campbell St.              2 way
Cave St. and W. Campbell St.                  1 way
Cave St. and W. Main St.                      1 way
Lois St. and W. Main St.                      1 way
N.W. 5th St. and W. Main St.                  1 way
N.W. 4th St. and W. Main St.                  1 way
N.W. 3rd St. and W. Main St.                  1 way
N.W. 2nd St. and W. Main St.                  1 way
N.E. 1st St. and E. Main St.                  1 way
N.E. 2nd St. and E. Main St.                  1 way
East Main St. and N.E. Main St./S.E. Main St. 1 way
E. Evergreen Dr. and N.E. Main St.            1 way
N. Beech St. and N.E. Main St.                1 way
E. Livonia Rd. and N.E. Main St.              1 way
N. Bennett St. and E. Livonia Rd.             1 way
N. Bennett St. and N.E. Main St.              2 way
N. Marshall Rd. and N.E. Main St.             1 way
S. Triangle Rd. and N.E. Main St.             1 way
E. Indian Trial Rd. and S. Triangle Rd.       1 way
Leonard Circle and E. Indiana Trial Rd.       1 way
N. Bennett St. and E. Indian Trial Rd.        1 way
E. Smith Circle and E. Indian Trial Rd.       1 way
E. Water St. and E. Indian Trial Rd.          1 way
Beechwood Ave. and E. Water St.               1 way
Teaford Ave. and E. Water St.                 1 way
E. Water St. and S.E. Main St.                2 way
College Hill St. and Lingle St.               1 way
Gasaway Alley and Lingle Ave.                 1 way
Lingle Ave. and Fair St.                      1 way
Fair St. and SE Main St.                      2 way
Roosevelt St. and S.E. Main St.               2 way
Grandview Dr. and S.E. Main St.               1 way
S. Ridgecrest Lane and .SE. Main St.          1 way
E. South view Lane and S. Ridgecrest St.      1 way
S. Triangle Rd. and S.E. Main St.             1 way
S. Gospel St. and E. Water St.                1 way
S. Gospel St. and W. Water St.                1 way
S.E 1st St. and E. Water St.                  4 way
SE 2nd St. and E. Water St.                   4 way
S.E. 3rd St. and E. Water St.                 2 way
Atchley St. and Fair St.                      1 way
S.E. 4th St. and Fair St.                     1 way
S.E. 4th St. and E. Braxton St.               1 way
College Hill St. and S.E. 3rd St.             1 way
S.E. 3rd St. and Fair St.                     2 way
S.E. 3rd St. and E. Braxton St.               2 way
Stace St. and S.E. 2nd St.                    1 way
Hudelson St. and S.E. 1st St.                 1 way
Stace St. and S.E. 1st St.                    2 way
E. Braxton St. and S.E. 1st St.               2 way
E. Braxton St. and S.E. 2nd St.               2 way
Fair St. and S.E. 2nd St.                     2 way
Fair St. and S.E. 1st St.                     1 way
College Hill St. and S.E. 2nd St.             2 way
College Hill St. and S.E. 1st St.             2 way
S. Gospel St. and Cherry St.                  1 way
Wilbur St. and Cherry St.                     1 way
Cherry St. and S.W. 1st St.                   2 way
S. Oak St. and S Gospel St.                   1 way
S. Gospel St. and S.W. 1st St.                1 way
S. Paoli Unionville Rd. and S.W. 1st St.      1 way
Orange Ave. and S.W. 1st St.                  1 way
S. oak St. and S.W. 1st St.                   2 way
W. Water St. and S.W. 1st St.                 2 way
S.W. 2nd St. and W. Main St.                  1 way
S.W. 2nd St. and W. Water St.                 2 way
S.W. 3rd St. and W. Main St.                  1 way
S.W. 3rd St. and W. Water St.                 3 way
Elm St. and W. Water St.                      1 way
W. Water St. and Josephine St.                3 way
Cherry St. and Elm St.                        1 way
Cherry St. and Josephine St.                  3 way
Sycamore St. and Cherry St.                   1 way
Mulberry St. and Cherry St.                   1 way
Hackberry St. and Cherry St.                  1 way
Stacker St. and S.W. 1st St.                  1 way
Stucker St. and Hackberry St.                 2 way
Hackberry St. and S. Oak St.                  1 way
Mulberry St. and Stucker St.                  1 way
Maple St. and Mulberry St.                    1 way
Maple St. and Sycamore St.                    4 way
Maple St. and Josephine St.                   2 way
Maple St. and Elm St.                         1 way
Josephine St. and S. Oak St.                  1 way
Linden St. and S. Oak St.                     1 way
Sycamore St. and S. Oak St.                   1 way
W. Sibbitt St. and W. Wilson St.              1 way
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any violation of this schedule may result in an ordinance
violation being issued against the driver of the vehicle with a fine issued in
the amount of $50. The fine shall be payable at the Paoli Police Department
within 30 days in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty. In the event that
such payment is not made within the period prescribed, and, at the discretion
of the Police Chief and the Town Attorney, proceedings may be filed in the
county court of competent jurisdiction. If found in violation of this traffic
schedule, the violator shall be responsible for the $50 fine, court costs,
interest, and attorney fees, if applicable.
   (C)   Traffic Enforcement Fund. Establisment; function. The Town Council of
the Town of Paoli hereby creates a Traffic Enforcement Fund which shall be a
revolving fund, and all monies paid shall be placed in the fund and in no other
place. The monies also shall not revert to the General Fund but shall remain in
the Traffic Enforcement Fund. Any money generated from this fund can be used at
the discretion of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 4-1-14, Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 5-7-14; Am. Ord. 2014-
17, passed 11-18-14)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   NOISE CONTROL
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   PARADES AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dog licenses
   
90.03   Restraint
   
90.04   Dangerous animals
   
90.05   Impoundment
   
90.06   Abandonment of an animal
   
90.07   Nuisances
   
90.08   Multiple animals
   
90.09   Enforcement
   
90.10   Fines
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONMENT. The leaving of an animal on any premises without the consent
of the owner, occupant or tenant and without the making of any agreement for
the care of the animal. ABANDONMENT of an animal shall include the act of
leaving the animal at the County Humane Society shelter without notification to
the Animal Control Officer of the ownership of the animal.
      ANIMAL. Any living non-human creature, domestic or wild, including
livestock and poultry.
      OWNER. Any person owning, harboring or keeping any animal.
      POULTRY. 
         (a)   Chickens, roosters, geese, turkeys, peacocks, ducks or other
fowl; and
         (b)   Ostrich, emu and other ritites.
      RABBITS. For the purpose of this chapter, rabbits are any of the
domesticated varieties of the European rabbit species.
      RESTRAINT. Confinement to the premises of the owner, being outside the
premises of the owner while on a leash not more than eight feet in length,
being outside the premises of the owner while under voice control in the
presence of a competent person, being outside the premises of the owner while
within a vehicle being driven or parked or being upon the premises of another
person with the consent of that person.
      UNGULATE ANIMAL. 
         (a)   Cows, ox, cattle, calves, or other livestock;
         (b)   Donkey, ass, burro, mule;
         (c)   Sheep;
         (d)   Goats of all sizes;
         (e)   Horse;
         (f)   Alpacas; and
         (g)   Swine of all kind.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall be referred to as the ACO.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-15-16)
§ 90.02 DOG LICENSES.
   (A)   No person may own, harbor or keep a dog or cat within the town unless
it is registered and licensed under this section.
   (B)   All dogs and cats owned, harbored, or kept in the town shall be
registered within 30 days of being brought into town. The owner shall supply
the town with the information concerning sex, breed, certificate of rabies
vaccination, name of the dog or cat, and the name and address of the owner.
   (C)   (1)   Any person owning or harboring a dog or cat shall pay to the
town an annual license fee within 30 days of bringing a dog or cat into the
town and thereafter, by June 1 of each year, for each dog or cat owned,
harbored, or kept on the same premises, as follows:
         (a)   For each neutered dog or cat, $5.
         (b)   For each non-neutered dog or cat, $10.
      (2)   Dogs kept in kennels for breeding, boarding or training purposes or
for sale shall not be assessed an individual license fee, but the owner or
keeper shall pay an annual kennel license fee, by June 1 of each year,
according to the following schedule:
         (a)   For a major kennel, consisting of 15 or more dogs, a fee of $30.
         (b)   For a minor kennel, consisting of less than 15 dogs, a fee of
$20.
      (3)   Upon the payment of the license fee required by subsection (2) of
this section, the ACO shall deliver to the owner or keeper of the kennel a
proper license together with a metallic tag for each dog in the kennel. The
license shall be dated and numbered and shall bear the name of the town and the
name and address of the owner of the kennel licensed, and a description of the
breed, number, sex, and age of the dogs kept in such kennel. Any person
becoming the owner of a dog kennel shall, within 30 days after becoming the
owner, apply to the ACO and, upon payment of the required fee, procure a
license and a metallic tag for all dogs in the kennel.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97; Am. Ord. 2012-13, passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. 2016-
03, passed 5-17-16) Penalty, see §§
10.99 and
90.10
§ 90.03 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to keep any of his or her animals under restraint
at all times.
   (B)   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or a secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female dog cannot make contact with
another dog except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §§
10.99 and
90.10
§ 90.04 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal which poses a clear and present danger to persons, property,
or other animals shall be considered a dangerous animal. The ACO or any police
officer may destroy any dangerous animal.
   (B)   Any unrestrained animal that is injured or diseased to the extent that
any reasonable veterinary care would not restore the animal to a normal state
of health may be destroyed by the ACO.
   (C)   No ungulate animals are allowed within town limits.
   (D)   No peacocks, geese, ostrich, or any fowl not specified to be permitted
are allowed in town limits.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-2-16)
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unrestrained animals may be taken by the Police Department or ACO, and
impounded in the County Humane Society animal shelter, and there be confined in
a humane manner. The ACO shall record all impoundments under this section. That
record shall be kept in a book maintained for that purpose and shall be entered
immediately following impoundment. The record shall state the date of the
impoundment, a description of the animal, whether any license required under
this chapter has been obtained.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit any animal of any kind to run at large
within the town. Any animal found running loose on the streets, sidewalks or
other public property within the town shall be taken to the Orange County
Humane Society to be held according to the rules of the Humane Society.
Whenever any animal running at large is not catchable and the owner of the
animal cannot be identified or located, the animal shall be darted or tased by
the ACO, town employee, or police officer and impounded. If the owner of the
animal is identified and located, the owner shall immediately take control of
the animal, or assist in the seizure of the animal. In either instance, the
owner shall be considered in violation of this section and subject to penalties
for such violation as set forth in §
90.05(F) or §
90.10.
   (C)   The ACO shall give public notice of the impoundment by posting one
copy of a document stating the date of impoundment and containing a description
of the animal. This document shall be posted on the bulletin board in the town
hall lobby.
   (D)   The ACO shall also notify the owner of any animal licensed under this
section if that animal is impounded. Sufficient notice shall be constituted by
ordinary mail to the last known address, by verbal notice of the owner or by
written notice at the door of the owner’s residence.
   (E)   The owner of any impounded animal may reclaim it by paying all costs
and charges incurred by the town and the animal shelter prior to reclamation.
The owner must also produce adequate proof that the animal has obtained all
required licenses and rabies vaccination certificate.
   (F)   The town shall charge a fee of $10, plus $2 for each day of
impoundment, with a maximum fee of $50. Any animal impounded by the ACO that
must be isolated for any reason, such as rabies or other disease, shall be
subject to the normal impoundment fee of $10, plus a daily fee of $4. There
shall be no maximum impoundment fee for an animal requiring isolation. The
owner shall be liable for the cost of any inoculation or other veterinary
service deemed necessary by the ACO during the impoundment.
   (G)   If any impounded animal with ownership identification is not reclaimed
within 20 days following the posting of the public notice required by this
section, the ACO shall instruct the animal shelter to humanely destroy that
animal. Animals without any ownership identification will be classified as
unwanted strays and may be destroyed within 20 days after the posting of public
notice. Animals may be adopted immediately after public notification with the
understanding that if a previous owner is found within five days of public
notice the animal will be returned upon payment of any reasonable expenses to
the adopter, and payment of any fines, impoundment fees, and the like, to the
town.
   (H)   Any animal eligible for release may be released by the ACO to any
responsible person following the expiration of the five days set forth above.
That person shall, for the purposes of this section, assume ownership upon
claiming the animal. No animal shall be released under this section until the
responsible person pays all charges due under division (F) of this section.
   (I)   No unspayed or unneutered dog or any dangerous animal shall be
released to any responsible person other than its owner. No animal that was
considered dangerous at the time of impoundment by the ACO shall be released to
its owner if it is still considered a dangerous animal by the ACO. If such
animal is no longer considered to be a dangerous animal by the ACO, the animal
shall be released to its owner if all impoundment fees are paid, if the animal
has had a rabies vaccination within the previous year and if the owner signs a
statement indemnifying the town and its officers, employees and agents from all
liability which may arise from the actions of the animal.
   (J)   The ACO shall also act as the town’s agent under I.C. 15-5-9-14 in
impounding all dogs upon which no license fee has been paid on or after June 15
of each year. Any such animal may be released to its owner upon proof that the
impoundment fees set out in this section have been paid, that the dog has been
licensed by the town and has been vaccinated against rabies. If any dog
impounded under this section is not reclaimed within 20 days following its
impoundment, the ACO may humanely dispose of the animal or release it as
provided for in division (G) of this section.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97; Am. Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-15)
Editor’s Note:
   I.C. 15-5-9-14 was repealed by P.L. 162-2006, effective 7-1-06.
§ 90.06 ABANDONMENT OF AN ANIMAL.
   No owner shall abandon an animal in the town. Such abandonment shall be a
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the fines and penalties set
out in this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §§
10.99 and
90.10
§ 90.07 NUISANCES.
   No owner shall allow his or her animals to become a public nuisance. Animals
who engage in excessive or continuous barking, molesting persons, chasing
vehicles or habitually attacking other animals shall be deemed a public
nuisance and shall be impounded and/or the owner cited.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §§
10.99 and
90.10
§ 90.08 MULTIPLE ANIMALS.
   All kennels, pet shops or other facilities, whether operated by for-profit
or not-for-profit organizations, or individuals keeping more than five animals
over six months of age on their premises are subject to inspection by the ACO
upon his or her request and during reasonable hours. The ACO must certify that
all local, state and federal laws are being complied with and that the animals
are being cared for in a reasonable and humane manner.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97)
§ 90.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The ACO is authorized to enforce this chapter, all federal and state
laws by impounding animals, issuing citations and receiving fees and issuing
impoundment notices and warning violations as provided by law.
   (B)   The ACO is further authorized to conduct an investigation and to make
complaints to the County Prosecuting Attorney for violation of any state or
federal statute regarding the protection or keeping of animals, including I.C.
35-46-3-1 through 35-46-3-12 and any statutes amendatory thereof or
supplemental thereto.
   (C)   The ACO is authorized to enforce all provisions of I.C. 15-2.1-6-
1 through 15-2.1-6-13 in regard to the control and prevention of rabies
   (D)   The ACO and the town shall not be responsible to control, regulate,
capture or impound any wild animal under the jurisdiction of the State
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) unless specific authority is delegated to
the ACO by an officer or agent of DNR.
   (E)   No person shall, in any manner, resist or obstruct any ACO, police
officer or any other individual authorized to enforce provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §§
10.99 and
90.10
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 15-2.1-6-1 through 15-2.1-6-13 were repealed by P.L. 2-2008, effective
7-1-08.
§ 90.10 FINES.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of
Chapter 90 shall, in addition to any enforcement processes contained in the
chapter, upon conviction, be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First Offense      $50.00
      (2)   Second Offense   $100.00
      (3)   Third Offense   $150.00
      (4)   Fourth Offense or More   up to $2,500.00
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues. The assessed fine may be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town within 72 hours in full satisfaction of the
assessed penalty. In the event that such payment is not made within the period
prescribed, proceedings may be filed in the county court of competent
jurisdiction. Funds generated from the assessed fines shall be placed in a fund
to defray the expenses incurred by the town of the maintenance of impounded
animals and to defray the expense of enforcing this section.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 5-5-97; Am. Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-15)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice; application and qualifications
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
91.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
91.09   Exemptions
   
91.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 91.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town of to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 USC 5301 et seq.), as amended,
the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 USC 1981 et
seq.), as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04, 91.05, 91.06, 91.07, or 91.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS. Also, pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5, the
definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or
perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its
members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802 (I.C. 22-9.5-
2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(c)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12)
Statutory reference:
   State definitions, see I.C. 22-9.5-2-2, I.C. 22-9.5-2-3, I.C. 22-9.5-2-4,
I.C. 22-9.5-2-9, I.C. 22-9.5-2-11, and I.C. 22-9.5-2-13.
Editor’s Note:
   I.C. 22-9.5-2-10, 22-9.5-2-10(b) and 22-9.5-2-10(c) were repealed by P.L.
99-2007, passed 5-2-07.
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE; APPLICATION AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
91.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
91.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this Section, nothing in
§
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (A)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 and except as exempted by §§
91.03(B) and
91.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person; or
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
paragraph division (H)(3)(c)3. of this section.
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION
means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   (A)   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat
of force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
      (2)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)(1)
of this section; or
         (b)   affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (B)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)(1) of this
section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12)
§ 91.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C )of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12)
§ 91.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) of this section shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official
of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the town shall refer all the complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) of this section to the Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1980-6, passed 11-24-80; Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
1, passed 8-2-95; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-4-12)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Removal and Control of Waste Materials
   
92.01   [Reserved]
   
92.02   Duty to abate public nuisance
   
92.03   Removal; notice
   
92.04   Failure to abate
   
92.05   Civil penalties
   
92.06   Billing procedure
   
92.07   Appeal
   
92.08   Lien
   
92.09   Administrative liability
   
92.10   Enforcement
Removal of Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
92.20   Weed or rank vegetation height
   
92.21   Vegetation or permanent structures on easements and governmental
property
   
92.22   Noxious weeds or other rank vegetation
   
92.23   Removal; notice
   
92.24   Failure to abate
   
92.25   Civil penalties
   
92.26   Billing procedure
   
92.27   Appeal
   
92.28   Lien
   
92.29   Administrative liability
   
92.30   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of vacant and abandoned structures, see
Ch. 154
REMOVAL AND CONTROL OF WASTE MATERIALS
§ 92.01 [RESERVED.]
§ 92.02 DUTY TO ABATE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all owners of private property within the
corporate limits of the town to remove or cause to be abated any public
nuisance as specified in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any private property abandoned, neglected, or disregarded so as to
permit the same to become unclean, with an accumulation of litter or waste
thereon including, but not solely limited to, waste paper, rags, cans, bottles,
boxes, lumber, metal, garbage or disused or inoperable motor vehicles,
trailers, or any other machinery, or appliances or furniture thereon, unless
specifically authorized under existing laws and regulations, or to permit the
same to become unsightly, unsanitary, obnoxious, or a fire hazard, or a blight
to the vicinity or offensive to the senses of the users of any public way
abutting such premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Exceptions. Motor vehicles necessary in the course of business of an
Indiana licensed motor vehicle dealer or auto repair shop are excepted from
this section provided, however that no inoperable motor vehicle shall be on the
premises of the dealer or shop more than 60 days in any 365-day period.
   (D)   Immediate abatement of emergency nuisances. When the Code Enforcement
Officer and/or a representative designated by the Town Council finds that a
condition existing on a property qualifies as an emergency or safety concern,
the written notice to abate shall include a statement indicating such a finding
and allowing a period of time of not less than 24 hours to abate the nuisance.
The town may take immediate, reasonable measures to abate any emergency or
safety concern nuisance if the responsible person cannot be contacted or
refuses or fails to correct an emergency condition within the time ordered. For
the purposes of this section, EMERGENCY OR SAFETY CONCERN shall be defined as
follows: The presence of a condition, regardless of cause, which poses an
immediate risk of injury or death if not promptly abated or remedied. This
includes, but is not limited to, the presence of obstructions in rights-of-way,
sidewalks, or streets; and other extremely hazardous conditions.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 10-2-96; Am. Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-
01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 2-7-06; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 3-
7-23)
§ 92.03 REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the administration of this
subchapter. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or a representative designated by the
Clerk-Treasurer, upon receipt of a complaint of a violation of this subchapter,
will issue a written notice giving the landowner no less than ten nor more than
60 days to remove the waste materials which constitute a nuisance. Such notice
will be by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner of the real
estate as shown on the Orange County Auditor's records. Following the issuance
of written notice, the Clerk-Treasurer and/or a representative designated by
the Clerk-Treasurer will report the notification at the next Town Council
Meeting.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 10-2-96; Am. Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-
01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 2-7-06; Am. Ord. 2015-10, passed 8-
3-15)
§ 92.04 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If the landowner fails to cut, remove or cause to be abated any public
nuisance within the time prescribed in the notice, or any extension of that
time granted by the Town Council or Clerk-Treasurer, the town, through town
employees or contractors hired by the town may enter the property to abate the
violation of this subchapter and may remove or cause to be abated any public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-
01, passed 2-7-06)
§ 92.05 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   First Offense      $100.00
   (B)   Second Offense   $150.00
   (C)   Third Offense   $200.00
   (D)   Fourth Offense or More   up to $2,500.00
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 2-7-06; Am. Ord. 2015-10, passed 8-3-15)
§ 92.06 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall then send a bill to the landowner for the
costs incurred by the town in abating the violation, a civil penalty,
administrative costs and removal costs. The bill shall be served upon the
landowner in the same manner as the service of notice of violation.
   (B)   If a truck is required to remove debris from a site, that service will
be billed at the town’s current rate for such service, together with a multiple
of 1.25 (or an additional 25%) for overhead expenses. In addition to billing
for equipment use, the current wage scale per hour for each employee or
contractor hired by the town will be charged for transporting equipment to and
from the property, and labor will be charged at the current wage scale per hour
for each employee or contractor hired by the town together with an a multiple
of 1.25 (or an additional 25%) for overhead expenses. These charges are in
addition to any fines issued for violating this subchapter; however, the total
may not exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-
01, passed 2-7-06)
§ 92.07 APPEAL.
   Any appeal of the removal notice or bill must be made in writing, within ten
calendar days of the date of the removal notice or bill, whichever is
applicable. Any appeal must be in writing and shall be made to the Town
Council, which shall set the matter for hearing. The hearing may be at a
special meeting of the Town Council or any regular scheduled meeting of the
Town Council. After the hearing, the Town Council shall issue its written
findings. Any appeal from written findings of the Town Council must be made to
a court of competent jurisdiction located in Orange County, Indiana, within 60
calendar days of the issuance of its written findings by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-
01, passed 2-7-06)
§ 92.08 LIEN.
   If the landowner fails to pay a bill issued under this subchapter within 30
days after billing, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the Auditor of Orange
County the amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification. The Auditor of Orange County shall place the
total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the
total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent
taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-
01, passed 2-7-06)
§ 92.09 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the town shall render himself/herself
personally liable for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his/her duties
under this subchapter. Any suit brought against any officer, agent or employee
of the town as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his/her duties shall be defended by the Town Attorney until the final
determination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-
01, passed 2-7-06)
§ 92.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Council shall enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-
01, passed 2-7-06)
REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 92.20 WEED OR RANK VEGETATION HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, rank vegetation, grass
or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to
grow to a height exceeding nine inches anywhere in the town. Weeds and rank
vegetation does not include agricultural crops such as hay and pasture or
vegetation planted for some useful or ornamental purpose. Weeds or rank
vegetation exceeding such a height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
§ 92.21 VEGETATION OR PERMANENT STRUCTURES ON EASEMENTS AND GOVERNMENTAL
PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful to permit weeds, vegetation, trees, permanent structures or
woody growth on private property which due to its proximity to any governmental
property, right-of-way, or easements, interferes with the public safety or
lawful use of the governmental property, right-of-way or easement. Such
interference is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
§ 92.22 NOXIOUS WEEDS OR OTHER RANK VEGETATION.
   It is unlawful for anyone to permit any noxious weed, including but not
limited to Canadian thistle and Johnson grass, to grow or be grown on any
premises on which weeds, plants or grass are permitted to grow.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
§ 92.23 REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the administration of this
subchapter. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or a representative designated by the
Clerk-Treasurer, upon receipt of a complaint of a violation of this subchapter,
will issue a five-day written notice, by regular mail, to remove the weeds or
rank vegetation. Following the issuance of written notice, the Clerk-Treasurer
and/or a representative designated by the Clerk-Treasurer will report the
notification at the next Town Council meeting.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2012-
10, passed 7-3-12; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-21-15; Am. Ord. 2015-10, passed
8-3-15)
§ 92.24 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If the landowner fails to cut and remove the weeds and/or rank vegetation
within the time prescribed in the notice, or any extension of that time granted
by the Town Council or Clerk-Treasurer, the town, through town employees or
contractors hired by the town may enter the property to abate the violation of
this subchapter and may remove or cause to be cut and removed, such weeds and/
or rank vegetation.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
§ 92.25 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   First Offense      $100.00
   (B)   Second Offense   $150.00
   (C)   Third Offense   $200.00
   (D)   Fourth Offense or More   up to $2,500
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2015-
06, passed 4-21-15)
§ 92.26 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall then send a bill to the landowner for the
costs incurred by the town in abating the violation, a civil penalty,
administrative costs and removal costs. The bill shall be served upon the
landowner in the same manner as the service of notice of violation.
   (B)   Man-hour fees for removal are hereby set at $35 per hour with a
minimum charge of one hour. Equipment use fees are hereby set at $50 per hour.
These charges are in addition to any fines issued for violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 2015-
06, passed 4-21-15)
§ 92.27 APPEAL.
   Any appeal of the removal notice or bill must be made in writing, within ten
calendar days of the date of the removal notice or bill, whichever is
applicable. Any appeal must be in writing and shall be made to the Town
Council, which shall set the matter for hearing. The hearing may be at a
special meeting of the Town Council or any regular scheduled meeting of the
Town Council. After the hearing, the Town Council shall issue its written
findings. Any appeal from written findings of the Town Council must be made to
a court of competent jurisdiction located in Orange County, Indiana, within 60
calendar days of the issuance of its written findings by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
§ 92.28 LIEN.
   If the landowner fails to pay a bill issued under this subchapter within the
time specified, the Clerk- Treasurer shall certify to the Auditor of Orange
County the amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification. The Auditor of Orange County shall place the
total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the
total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent
taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the town. The
procedure by which the lien becomes a part of delinquent taxes is described in
I.C. 36-7-10.1-4.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
§ 92.29 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the town shall render himself/herself
personally liable for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his/her duties
under this subchapter. Any suit brought against any officer, agent or employee
of the town as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his/her duties shall be defended by the Town Attorney until the final
determination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
§ 92.30 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Council shall enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
CHAPTER 93: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
93.01   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
93.02   Enumeration of certain prohibited acts concerning the use of property
   
93.03   Enumeration of certain prohibited acts concerning the use of motorized
vehicles
   
93.04   Enumeration of certain acts concerning the producing or reproducing of
sound on or from a motor vehicle
   
93.05   Exemptions
   
93.06   Prosecution
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this section for a person to make any loud,
improper, unreasonable, offensive or unusual noise which disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the
town.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN PROHIBITED ACTS CONCERNING THE USE OF PROPERTY.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud or disturbing
noises in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed
exclusive:
   (A)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated, any
radio receiving set, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than
is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room or
chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary
listener. The operation of any such set, phonograph, machine or device, in such
a manner to be plainly audible to any persons on or in an adjoining property,
apartment, office, structure, sidewalk or vehicle shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation of this section.
   (B)   Using, operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, any
radio receiving set, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine
or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the
public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the
attention of the public to any building or structure.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN PROHIBITED ACTS CONCERNING THE USE OF MOTORIZED
VEHICLES.
   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, truck or other motorized vehicle with
appurtenances attached thereto so as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate, cause to operate or use a motor vehicle such as to cause excessive
noise levels as a result of a defective or modified muffler and/or exhaust
system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid acceleration, deceleration, revving
or tire squeal. It shall be unlawful for any person, during the operation of
any motor vehicle, to engage or cause to be engaged an exhaust brake on said
motor vehicle, which is sometimes known as a “jake brake” in the town.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 5-5-97; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 5-2-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN ACTS CONCERNING THE PRODUCING OR REPRODUCING OF
SOUND ON OR FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to produce or reproduce any sound so as
to cause excessive noise levels as a result of the operation of audio devices
such as but not limited to radios, phonographs, CD players, and cassette
players on or from motor vehicles within the town.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
   (A)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, and similar home power tools, when
properly muffled.
   (C)   Celebrations on legal holidays and celebrations in connection with
duly authorized parades.
   (D)   School band practice.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 5-5-97)
§ 93.06 PROSECUTION.
   (A)   In any prosecution for a violation of this chapter, the court may
admit any evidence of a noise level as tested by a sound level meter, testimony
of the police officer who investigated the violation or testimony of a
subpoenaed witness or complaining witness who had the opportunity to evaluate
the noise level.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
section. Whenever any police officer issues a citation for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter, he or she shall take down the name, address, and/or
the operator’s license number, if it applies, and shall issue to the alleged
violator in writing on the form provided by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, a
citation for a violation of any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 5-5-97) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a fine of
not more than $2,500 and not less than $50. Each day any violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense. In all cases where the same
offense may be made punishable, or may be created by different clauses or
sections of the ordinances of the town, the Town Attorney may elect under which
to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be paid against the same
person for the same offense.
(Ord. 1997-5, passed 5-5-97)
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
   
94.01   Sale of cemetery lots
§ 94.01 SALE OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   Upon the payment of $400 for a lot, or $100 for a plot, the Town Council
shall have a “cemetery deed” prepared for the cemetery real estate and does
authorize the President of the Town Council to sign the deeds and the Clerk
Treasurer to attest the deeds, without further action by the Council until such
time as a change in price structure may be deemed appropriate by the Council.
(Ord. 1997-9, passed 9-15-97)
CHAPTER 95: PARADES AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Permit required
   
95.03   Exceptions
   
95.04   Application
   
95.05   Standards for issuance
   
95.06   Notice of issuance
   
95.07   Contents of permit
   
95.08   Chairman to carry permit
   
95.09   Signs
   
95.10   Public conduct
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or calls for a different meaning:
   PARADE. A PARADE, march, ceremony, show exhibition, pageant or procession of
any kind, or rallies, demonstrations or any similar display, in or on any
street or other outdoor place owned or under control of the Town of Paoli,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   When required, except as provided in §
95.04, no person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any parade
unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer as provided
in this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Any procession, rally, demonstration or similar activity on the
sidewalks that does not violate any other provision of this chapter or other
city ordinances; and
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its function.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.04 APPLICATION.
   Any person seeking the issuance of a parade permit as required by this
chapter shall file an application therefor with the Clerk-Treasurer on forms
provided by his or her office, which application shall be governed by the
following provisions:
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the Traffic Supervisor not less than 48 hours before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade. The application must be signed by the applicant
and notarized.
   (B)   Contents. An application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization and of the authorized responsible heads of such organization.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.05 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit as provided by this chapter when,
after investigating the facts set out in the application, he or she shall find
that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the area contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city.
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto.
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The conduct of such parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property;
   (G)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route; and
   (H)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit. However, the prohibition against advertising any product, goods or
event shall not apply to signs identifying organizations or sponsors furnishing
or sponsoring floats or transportation for the parade.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.06 NOTICE OF ISSUANCE.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade permit, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
send a copy thereof to the following:
   (A)   The President of the Town Council;
   (B)   The Superintendent of the Paoli Street Department;
   (C)   The Chief of Police;
   (D)   The Fire Chief; and
   (E)   The Indiana Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.07 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   The date of the parade,
   (B)   The starting time and termination time of the parade;
   (C)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade; and
   (D)   The estimated number of persons, animals and motor vehicles that will
be in the parade.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.08 CHAIRMAN TO CARRY PERMIT.
   The parade chairman or other person heading or leading such activity shall
carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.09 SIGNS.
   Any placard or sign carried by any person in any parade shall consist of a
cardboard sign on a wooden stick in a size not to exceed six square feet. Any
placard or sign attached to a vehicle shall not extend beyond the dimensions of
the vehicle.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.10 PUBLIC CONDUCT.
   (A)   Interference. No persons shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of any vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade routes. The Director shall have authority when
reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a
highway, or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. The
Chief of Police shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present or conduct,
or attempt to stage, present, or conduct a parade without first having obtained
a permit therefor as provided in this chapter or which shall otherwise violate
any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a parade on
the city streets for which a permit has not been granted.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with all
directions and conditions of the parade permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms and conditions of this ordinance may be
subject to a civil penalty in a sum not to exceed $1,000, plus court costs.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-21-03)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
96.01   Removal of snow
   
96.02   Sidewalks in front of premises to be kept clean
   
96.03   Tree limbs
   
96.04   Permit required; exception
   
96.05   One-half of street to remain open
   
96.06   Warning devices
   
96.07   Replacement of street or sidewalk required
   
96.08   Bond
   
96.09   Obstructing sidewalk
   
96.10   Sidewalk auctions
   
96.11   Spitting on sidewalk
   
96.12   Barbed and electrical wire
   
96.13   Goods and personal property prohibited on sidewalks; failure to comply
   
96.14   Grass clippings on streets prohibited
   
96.15   Snow emergency plan
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 REMOVAL OF SNOW.
   No person, having the control, management, possession, or ownership of any
lot, tract, or parcel of ground within the town, along and adjoining which any
sidewalk extends, shall permit or allow any snow to be and remain on the
sidewalk so extending along and abutting the lot, tract, or parcel of land in
the town, longer than a period of twelve hours during the daytime, after the
snow has ceased falling. Where snow or ice cannot be readily removed and
presents a slippery surface, sand shall be spread on it.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 2015-05, passed 4-21-15) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 SIDEWALKS IN FRONT OF PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   (A)   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front
of their premises free of litter, dirt, and/or grass clippings.
   (B)   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the town shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 2015-05, passed 4-21-15)
§ 96.03 TREE LIMBS.
   No person shall allow, suffer, or permit the limbs of any tree on any lot,
or in any street or alley adjacent to the lot owned or occupied by that person
to hang over any street, alley, or sidewalk, unless there is a space of at
least ten feet between the limbs of the trees and the surface of the street,
alley, or sidewalk.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall excavate in, dig up, or disturb the surface of any street,
alley, or sidewalk in the town for the purpose of laying, removing, or
repairing gas pipes, water pipes, or for any purpose whatever without having
first obtained a written permit to do so from the Clerk-Treasurer. This permit
shall state and correctly describe the nature, character, location, and extent
of the proposed work and the purpose for which it shall be done. However, this
section shall not apply to any work to be done or any repairs made on the
sanitary sewer system in the town, nor to causes of urgent necessity or
emergency where there is not time or opportunity to obtain the permit.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 ONE-HALF OF STREET TO REMAIN OPEN.
   No person shall trench or otherwise excavate in any street, so as to
obstruct the street for more than one-half its width at any one time, but shall
at all times leave the street so that one-half thereof shall be open for use
and free from obstruction.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 WARNING DEVICES.
   It shall be the duty of the person so occupying or obstructing any street,
alley, or sidewalk to cause one or more red lights to be securely and
conspicuously posted at or upon the excavation or obstruction, stationing one
of the lights at each end of the space so occupied. Where the space so occupied
is 50 feet or more either in length or width, the person shall place additional
lights at intervals of not more than 25 feet and shall maintain and continue
the burning of the lights from dusk until daylight during every night the
excavation or obstruction shall be allowed to remain.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13)
§ 96.07 REPLACEMENT OF STREET OR SIDEWALK REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who, having obtained a permit as provided for in §
96.04 and who shall have excavated in, dug up, or disturbed the surface of any
street, alley, or sidewalk in the Town for the purpose of laying, removing, or
repairing gas pipes, water pipes, or for any purpose whatever, shall upon the
completion of the work replace the street, alley, or sidewalk in as good a
condition as before the work commenced, and to the satisfaction of the Town
Council.
   (B)   Any person who shall have excavated in, dug up, or disturbed the
surface of any street, alley, or sidewalk in the town, and who shall fail to
replace the same in as good a condition as before the work was commenced shall
be liable to the town for the sum of money as is necessarily expended by the
town in restoring the street, alley, or sidewalk to its former condition, and
shall further be liable for any and all damages that may result to any property
owner or person which the Town is required to pay. Should the town be required
to repair and restore the street to its former condition, the town shall make
and present to the Town Council an itemized statement of the labor done and
expense incurred in making the repairs. The Town Council shall deduct the
amount of its costs and expenses for the repair or restoration from any
allowances or claim of the person for work and labor done for the Town, or from
any money due them from the town for any other cause.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13)
§ 96.08 BOND.
   (A)   All corporations, companies, firms, and persons shall, before
excavating in, digging up, or disturbing the surface of any street, alley, or
sidewalk in the town, execute and deliver to the town a bond payable to the
town in the penal sum of not less than $1,000 nor more than $5,000, with
sufficient surety approved by the Town Council. The penal sum of each bond
shall be fixed and determined by the Town Council. No written permit as
provided for in §
96.04 shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer until the applicant for the permit
has executed and delivered the bond.
   (B)   This bond shall be conditioned that the streets, alleys, sidewalks,
and public places where the work is done shall be promptly replaced and
restored in as good repair as before the work was commenced, that the
replacements and repairs will be settled, and that the places will be promptly
restored with the same grade and surface in as good or better condition that
prevailed prior to the commencement of the work. The principal in the bond will
indemnify and hold the town harmless from all damages they may accrue to any
person arising out of or in any way connected with the work or the performance
thereof.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13)
§ 96.09 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall congregate on any sidewalk in this town, so as to
prevent the free passage of all persons on and along the sidewalk. It shall be
the duty of any police officer to order all persons so congregated to disperse
and leave the sidewalk, and not to congregate thereon again. No person or
persons shall disobey any such order.
   (B)   No person shall obstruct the sidewalk in front of their store or place
of business by placing on the walk any bench, platform, or other devices on
which to display their goods; or place on the walk any boxes, barrels, or
anything else that will obstruct the free use of any portion of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 SIDEWALK AUCTIONS.
   No person shall offer at auction any goods or other property for sale on any
sidewalk of this town.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 SPITTING ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall expectorate on any sidewalk along any street in the town,
any tobacco juice, mucous, or any other offensive matter.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRICAL WIRE.
   No person owning or occupying any lot in the town shall erect, or cause or
permit to be erected, or maintain or suffer to be maintained along the lot
adjacent to any street, alley, or sidewalk any fence built in whole or in part
of barbed and/or electrical wire.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 GOODS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other
entity, or any person in charge or having control of the personal or business
property of any firm, corporation, or other entity, to place any goods, wares,
merchandise or other personal or business property on any street or sidewalk or
alley of the town for exhibit, storage, sale, or for any other purpose.
However, this shall not apply to the parking of trucks or automobiles not for
sale, nor to any act performed under order of the court.
   (B)   In any instance where personal or business property has or shall
remain on any street, sidewalk, or any space between the curb of the street and
any sidewalk for a period of 12 hours or more, the same shall be unlawful, and
any member of the Town Police shall have the authority to remove the personal
property without first giving notice to the owner or owners, and the owner of
the personal property shall not be entitled to the possession of the same until
the penalties assessed pursuant to §
96.99 have been paid in full.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 4-21-15)
 § 96.14 GRASS CLIPPINGS ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons owning or occupying property or
businesses to blow, sweep, place or deposit any grass clippings and/or shrub
clippings, whether generated by households or businesses, in streets or public
right-of-way, in and around the town.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 9-1-15)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 SNOW EMERGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   Declaration of snow emergency. The President of the Town Council may
declare a snow emergency for the town if such an order would be in the best
interest of the public safety and welfare of the residents in the town.
   (B)   Application. This section shall apply to all streets, alleys or right-
of-ways maintained by the town.
   (C)   Effective date. Such emergency shall continue in effect until the Town
Council President thereafter determines an emergency no longer exists and
terminates the emergency order.
   (D)   No parking on town streets. During a declared snow emergency, no
parking on town streets will be permitted.
   (E)   Restricted travel. The Town Council President may issue an order to
close all, or a portion of, town roads to public travel during a snow
emergency. During the declared emergency closure, the affected roads may or may
not be signed for closure and/or barricaded. All roads ordered closed will
remain closed until further order of the Town Council President.
   (F)   Publication. Publication and broadcast of a snow emergency declaration
shall be made or caused to be made by the Town Council President or his or her
designee by contacting local law enforcement agencies, fire departments, E911
dispatch office, news media, the Orange County Emergency Management Office and
posting the notice on the town website.
   (G)   Exemptions. Travel on closed town roads is prohibited during a
declared snow emergency closure unless the traveling individuals are:
      (1)   Public safety employee of state or local government performing
their duties.
      (2)   Health care providers traveling to, from, or in the course of their
employment.
      (3)   Private persons performing road-clearing, or private snow removal
provided that they do not impede or interfere with highway/road snow removal
crews or other emergency personnel.
      (4)   Persons restoring utility service.
      (5)   Traveling for any other purpose allowed by Indiana Code.
(Ord. 2022-16, passed 12-20-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
    (A)   A person who violates §
96.15 shall be guilty of an infraction and may be fined up to $2,500.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, any person who violates any provision of
this
Chapter 96 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 2022-16, passed 12-20-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Consent to issue liquor permits in the town
§ 110.01 CONSENT TO ISSUE LIQUOR PERMITS IN THE TOWN.
   The town, by the Town Council, hereby enacts this section consenting that
liquor retailer's permits may be issued to applicants otherwise duly qualified
under state law in respect to premises located within the town. No conditions,
exceptions, or limitations shall apply hereto but the same shall be solely at
the discretion of the local board and the state Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(Ord. 1967-6, passed 11-14-67)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Commercial use of pool and billiard tables; licensing
§ 111.01 COMMERCIAL USE OF POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES; LICENSING.
   (A)   It is the interest of the town to protect the health, safety and
welfare of its citizens by establishing a pool and billiard table ordinance.
   (B)   A license shall be required for the use of any pool tables or billiard
tables for commercial purposes in the town. The license shall be issued on an
annual basis upon application therefor made to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   A license shall be required for the use of any commercial
establishment using pool or billiard tables for commercial purposes, and the
annual license fee shall be $25 for each establishment, payable in advance,
upon application, to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this section shall
be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing ten days for the correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. passed 2-24-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Exceptions
   
112.03   Application; licensing fees
   
112.04   Display of license
   
112.05   Restricted places
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS. A business operated and conducted from the same
location for at least 30 continuous days in the town.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person who engages in a temporary business of
selling goods and in the furtherance of such business uses any building,
structure, or vehicle at any place within the town.
   PEDDLER. A person who sells and makes immediate delivery at a place within
the town, other than from a fixed place of business, any goods, produce or
merchandise on the streets or from house to house in the town, other than
products which he or she actually raises on his or her own land.
   SOLICITOR. To sell or take orders at any place within the town other than a
fixed place of business for sale of goods or services to be delivered in the
future.
(Ord. 1991-8, passed 12-2-91)
§ 112.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any non-profit corporation or fraternal organization that has
established a local chapter.
   (B)   Any farmer selling agricultural products actually raised on his or her
own land, but excluding farmers who buy goods for resale as well.
   (C)   Any person soliciting or peddling for, or selling tickets for, any
religious, charitable, school, veterans or civic organization.
   (D)   Salespersons for wholesale houses who solicit orders or sell to
merchants for resale.
(Ord. 1991-8, passed 12-2-91)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION; LICENSING FEES.
   (A)   To obtain a license, an application shall be made in writing to the
Clerk-Treasurer. The application must be signed and show the names and
addresses of the applicants and the period of time for which the license is
desired. The application shall also state the nature and quality of goods to be
offered for sale and furnish a full face photograph, two inches square, which
shall be attached to the license. If goods or produce, the applicant shall
state where it is produced or grown.
   (B)   Every person desiring a solicitor's or peddler's license shall pay to
the Clerk-Treasurer a license fee of $50 per year, payable in advance. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit this fee into the General Account of the town.
(Ord. 1991-8, passed 12-2-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every solicitor or peddler licensed shall have his or her license in his or
her immediate possession at all times and shall display the license upon demand
of any police officer or citizen of the town.
(Ord. 1991-8, passed 12-2-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 RESTRICTED PLACES.
   (A)   No peddler shall sell or deliver at any place on the Town Square
(Court Street).
   (B)   No person shall peddle or solicit in or from any vehicle while parked
or stopped in any area where parking is prohibited, or on any sidewalk in town.
(Ord. 1991-8, passed 12-2-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
113.01   License required; application
   
113.02   License fee and insurance
   
113.03   Compliance with rules and regulations; revocation or suspension
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   From and after May 1, 1946, it shall be unlawful to engage in the
business of carrying or transporting passengers for hire in a motor vehicle,
being an automobile, motor bus or any motor vehicle along, upon or over any of
the streets, avenues or alleys within the town, without first obtaining a
license issued by the town.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to operate an
automobile for hire on the streets, avenues and alleys of the town shall, 10
days before obtaining such license, file with the Clerk- Treasurer an
application for such license. The application blanks shall be furnished by the
town.
(Ord. 1946-1, passed 4-2-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 LICENSE FEE AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   The cost of the license required under §
113.01 shall be $50 per year. The license shall be issued annually on the first
day of May in each year and shall not be transferable.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation can purchase a license under this
chapter until it has obtained a policy of insurance, subject to the approval of
the Town Council, guaranteeing the payment of all damages, both person and
property, which may result from any and all accidents due to the negligence in
the use or operation of that motor vehicle for hire within the town, which
shall be payable for the benefit of persons who may suffer personal injury or
property damage on account of such negligence. The policy of insurance for each
licensed taxicab shall be in the minimum sum of $100,000, conditioned for the
payment of any final judgments recovered against the person for the death or
injury of persons caused in the operation, maintenance, use, or defective
condition of the taxicab. The policy shall be limited to the minimum sum of
$300,000 to more than one person, and limit the liability of the insurer to a
minimum $100,000 for damages to, or destruction of, property. The policy of
insurance shall be kept in full force and effect at all times and failure to do
so shall be cause for the revocation or suspension of the license, without
hearing or notice, to the holder of the license.
   (C)   Any person who operates a taxicab without furnishing the town with a
certificate of insurance, showing the vehicle is properly insured as required
by this chapter, shall be subject to a civil fine of $250 per violation. Each
day a taxicab is operated in violation hereof shall be considered a separate
violation. The insurance policies required herein must contain an endorsement
that cancellation of the policy, by the insurer, may be effected only upon 30
days’ written notice by the insurer to the town of the insurer’s intention to
terminate the policy.
(Ord. 1946-1, passed 4-2-46; Am. Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 113.03 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   All persons operating motor vehicles for hire under the license issued
under this chapter shall at all times comply with the orders, rules and
regulations of the town or its designated representative in regulating the
manner of parking, driving and operating the same along, upon and over the
streets, avenues and alleys of the town, and all orders, rules and regulations
that may be hereafter adopted by the Town Council regulating the parking of and
operating of motor vehicles upon the streets of the town.
   (B)   Failure to do so shall be cause for the revocation of or the
suspension of the license without hearing or notice to the holder of the
license, and/or civil penalties of $250 per violation. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed each day in which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1946-1, passed 4-2-46; Am. Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Mistreatment of police dogs prohibited
   
130.03   Posting on utility poles and road sign posts
   
130.04   Possession and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
130.05   Sex offenders prohibited from parks and recreational areas
   
130.06   Prohibited activity at the Paoli Parks
   
130.07   Tampering with town property and/or town equipment
Cross-reference:
   Real estate used for the illegal sale of drugs, see §
150.60
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew for minors. It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15,
16, or 17 years of age to be in a public place after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00
a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (4)    Occupying the sidewalk of the place where such minor resides, or
on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not communicated an
objection to a police officer or the police department; or
      (5)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event; or
         (c)   Interstate travel.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 MISTREATMENT OF POLICE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously torture,
torment, beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable or kill any dog used by
the Police Department in the performance of the functions or duties of the
Police Department, or to interfere with or meddle with any such dog while being
used by the Police Department or any member thereof in the performance of any
of the functions or duties of the Police Department or of such officers or
members.
(Ord. 1983-5, passed 7-11-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 POSTING ON UTILITY POLES AND ROAD SIGN POSTS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section for a person not an employee
of the town to post any item, including, but not limited to signs, on any
utility pole and/or road sign post owned by the town.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this section commits a Class C
infraction.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 POSSESSION AND/OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section for a person to possess and/or
consume any alcoholic beverage in a park, building, structure or other real
estate owned or leased by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
section. Whenever any police officer issues a citation for any violation of the
provisions of this section, he or she shall take down the name, address, and/or
the operator’s license number, if it applies, and shall issue to the alleged
violator in writing, on the form provided by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, a
complaint and summons for violation of any provision of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section, for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, commits a Class B infraction.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 8-1-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 SEX OFFENDERS PROHIBITED FROM PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
responsible rules for those individuals who use the parks and other
recreational areas owned and operated by the town. This section is necessary to
insure that residents fully enjoy leisure and recreational activities available
in Paoli parks and other recreational areas, and to protect health and safety
of persons using the parks and other recreational areas.
   (B)   Parks and other recreation areas defined. The words PARKS AND OTHER
RECREATION AREAS shall include, but not be limited to, any lands, buildings,
structures, waters, parks, trails, drives, and roadways in the town under the
jurisdiction and control of the Paoli Parks and Recreation Department.
   (C)   Prohibited persons. Individuals listed on the State of Indiana Sex
Offender Registry, published and disseminated by the Indiana Criminal Justice
Institute, are prohibited from all parks and other recreational areas of the
town.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 10-20-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY AT THE PAOLI PARKS.
   (A)   The following activities are strictly prohibited by any and all teams,
umpires, and members of the public that are at any of the parks:
      (1)   No smoking inside of the field or in any closed facility;
      (2)   No alcohol;
      (3)   No drugs;
      (4)   No glass bottles;
      (5)   No fighting;
      (6)   No arguing;
      (7)   No profanity;
      (8)   No children in press box;
      (9)   No weapons;
      (10)   Play at your own risk; and
      (11)   Not responsible for accidents.
   (B)   The following activity is strictly prohibited by any and all teams,
umpires, and members of the public that are at the J-C Park; and
   (C)   No children in dugout or on the field while a game is in process.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 5-17-16)
§ 130.07 TAMPERING WITH TOWN PROPERTY AND/OR TOWN EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, equipment, property, or the like, that
belongs to the town. This shall include, without limitation, individuals that
turn their utility service back on without town approval.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
130.07 shall, upon conviction, become liable to the town for any expense, loss
or damage by reason of the violation, including, without limitation, material
costs, labor costs, and/or reasonable attorney fees incurred by the town for
collection of the account.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.07 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500 for
the first violation, and a fine not exceeding $7,500 for a second or subsequent
violation of this section. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day in which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-19)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Discharge of firearms
   
131.03   Use of air rifles, bows and arrows or similar devices
   
131.04   Unlawful throwing of stones or other objects
   
131.05   Exceptions
   
131.06   Enforcement
   
131.07   Weapon Violation Fund
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Any gun, rifle, pistol, revolver, shotgun or any other device which
is capable of projecting any object a distance of 40 feet.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-15-13)
§ 131.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the town
except as described in §
131.05.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-15-13) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 USE OF AIR RIFLES, BOWS, ARROWS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, air pistol,
spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun, bow and arrow, or similar device, or any
instrument that is not a firearm but which propels a projectile of any kind
with a force that can reasonably be expected to cause bodily harm to/at any
person or property within the town except as described in §
131.05.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-15-13) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 UNLAWFUL THROWING OF STONES OR OTHER OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any stone or other objects into
or across any streets or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person, vehicle, or property except as described in §
131.05.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-15-13) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   A person lawfully in defense of oneself, of another person, or of
property; or
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer acting in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   The Police Chief may authorize an individual or organization the use
of items described in §§
131.02 and
131.03 in any area for a purpose not dangerous or harmful to individuals or
properties. (Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-15-13)
§ 131.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Paoli Police Department shall be charged with the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-15-13)
§ 131.07 WEAPON VIOLATION FUND.
   Establishment; function. The Town Council of the Town of Paoli hereby
creates a Weapon Violation Fund which shall be a revolving fund, and all monies
paid shall be placed in the fund and in no other place. The monies also shall
not revert to the General Fund but shall remain in the Weapon Violation Fund.
Any money generated form this fund can be used at the discretion of the Chief
of Police.
(Ord. 2014-11, passed 5-7-14)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined $50 for the first violation. Second and subsequent
violations will result in a fine of $100. In the event of a continuing or
maintaining of a violation of any section of this chapter, any person, firm or
corporation causing or maintaining the nuisance shall upon conviction, be fined
in a sum of $500.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-15-13; Am. Ord. 2014-11, passed 5-7-14)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
153.   HOUSING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
      
154.   VACANT AND ABANDONED STRUCTURES
      
155.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
   
150.06   Severability
   
150.07   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
150.08   Uniform system for structure address numbering
   
150.09   Structure address numbering responsibility
Building Permits
   
150.15   Building permit required
   
150.16   Application for building permit
   
150.17   Issuance of building permit
   
150.18   Certificate of occupancy
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
150.25   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.26   Inspections by Fire Department
Enforcement and Penalties
   
150.35   Withhold issuance of permits
   
150.36   Permit revocation
   
150.37   Stop-work order
   
150.38   Civil action
   
150.39   Monetary penalty
   
150.40   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.50   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.51   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Illegal Use of Real Estate
   
150.60   Real estate used for the illegal sale of drugs
   
150.98   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of Paoli, Indiana.”
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of Paoli, Indiana, and shall be construed
in such a manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes all individuals employed by the town who are
authorized by the Town Council to represent the BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
    CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, any part of the following:
      (1)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
         (a)   The public.
         (b)   Three or more tenants.
         (c)   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
      (2)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1) above.
      (3)   Outdoor event equipment.
      (4)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission determines
by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1) above,
except buildings or structures described in divisions (6) through (9) below.
      (5)   Division (1) above includes a structure that contains three or more
condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner or the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (6)   Division (1) above does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (7)   Division (1) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (8)   Division (1) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (9)   Division (1) does not include a structure that is intended to be or
is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (10)    Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, any part of the following:
      (1)   A townhouse or a building or structure that is intended to contain
or contains only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the
building or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1) above,
such as a garage, barn or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (3)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, TOWNHOUSE means a
single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or more attached
units in which each unit:
         (a)   Extends from foundation to roof;
         (b)   Is not more than three stories in height;
         (c)   Is separated from each adjoining unit by:
            1.   Two one-hour fire-resistence rated walls with exposure from
both sides; or
            2.   A common two-hour fire-resistance rated wall; and
         (d)   Has open space on at least two sides.
      (5)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site.
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used.
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used.
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 for Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, any part of a
building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another
building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile structure or
a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. This definition is as follows:
“A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling
mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length,
or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein;
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to
which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards
established under this 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq. and except that such term shall
not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, any part of a fabricated unit
that is designed to be:
      (1)   Towed on its own chassis; and
      (2)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a Class 1
structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure. The term MOBILE STRUCTURE
includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity.
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 STRUCTURES, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, any bridge that is neither a
pedestrian walkway nor a passageway for light vehicles suspended between two or
more parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word or any other portion) of
this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for
any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such
remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions be given
the effect intended in adopting this chapter. To this end, the provisions of
this chapter are severable.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.07 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. These rights, liabilities and other proceedings
are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.08 UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR STRUCTURE ADDRESS NUMBERING.
   All structures, new and existing, fronting public streets within the Town of
Paoli shall be numbered in accordance with the regulations and plans of the
Paoli Plan Commission as follows:
   (A)   Single family residential structure addresses. Structure address
numbers for single family residential structures shall consist of Arabic
numerals no less than four inches in height and no more than eight inches in
height on its mailbox, its main entrance door, and/or on a surface that is
plainly visible from the public street, whichever is the most visible. Where
access is by means of a private road and the address number cannot be viewed
from the public street, a monument, pole or other signs or other means shall be
used to identify the structure. All street addresses shall contrast to the
color of the surface on which they are mounted and shall be clearly visible and
identifiable from the street.
   (B)   Apartment complex addresses. Street addresses for apartment complexes
shall consist of Arabic numerals no less than five inches in height and no more
than ten inches in height. Each apartment complex is required to have each
building's address displayed in an obvious location if the entrance into each
apartment unit is not clearly labeled with a street address. All street
addresses shall contrast to the color of the surface on which they are mounted
and shall be clearly visible and identifiable from the street.
   (C)   Non-residential use addresses. The minimum and maximum height for
address numbers varies according to the front setback as follows:
      (1)   If the address is posted 100 feet or less from the road right-of-
way, the numbers shall be between five inches and 12 inches in height;
      (2)   If the address is posted between 100 and 200 feet from the road
right-of-way, the numbers shall be between eight inches and 16 inches in
height;
      (3)   If the address is posted over two-hundred feet from the road right-
of-way, the numbers shall be between 12 inches and 20 inches in height. All
street addresses shall contrast to the color of the surface on which they are
mounted and shall be clearly visible and identifiable from the street.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 7-18-17)
§ 150.09 STRUCTURE ADDRESS NUMBERING RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the new or existing structure and its occupant(s) shall be
jointly and severally responsible for the address numbers being displayed in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 7-18-17)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.15 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.16 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determined to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines, and shall
show streets, curbs and sidewalks, and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs and sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3; and
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
   (C)   The fee for each building permit, to include one site visit by the
Building Commissioner for the purpose of issuing the permit, shall be:
      (1)   Forty dollars for a residential permit;
      (2)   One hundred dollars, plus any costs incurred by the town, for a
business permit; and
      (3)   Fifty dollars for a mobile home park.
   (D)   For each successive visit by the Building Commissioner to the building
site for the purpose of issuing a building permit, a visit fee of $15 per visit
shall apply.
   (E)   For each subcontractor employed by a general contractor for the
purpose of constructing a new building, a subcontractor fee of $15 shall apply.
   (F)   If any building or structure is constructed by a person who has not
obtained a building permit, the fees indicated in divisions (C), (D), and (E)
of this section shall be doubled.
   (G)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
   (H)   It shall be the sole responsibility of the person required to have a
building permit to determine the proper location of all utilities provided by
the town that will serve each building for which a permit is required.
   (I)   In the event that any structure is constructed over a utility line, it
shall be the sole responsibility of the person required to have a building
permit for the structure to pay the cost of re-routing the utility.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 3-16-10)
§ 150.17 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including an applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.18 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless a full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 150.25 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.26 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws.
   (B)   The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct inspections
and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 150.35 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person who is either an applicant for a building permit or
an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds) to the Building Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may
withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that
the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioners is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.36 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter; or
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.37 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   The owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.38 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.39 MONETARY PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to a fine
in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in
no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.40 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may appeal
to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance with I.C.
22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the town
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, or a fire-safety or building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 Structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this chapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. Pursuant
to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town does now establish by this chapter the Paoli Town
Council to hear appeals of orders issued under this chapter. A person aggrieved
by an order issued hereunder may petition for review with the Paoli Town
Council.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.50 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of I.A.C. 675 are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24 - Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   As required by I.C. 36-1-5-4, two copies of the above building rules
incorporated by reference are on file in the Office of the Clerk for the
legislative body for public inspection.
   (C)   The Building Commission and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by
the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
§ 150.51 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   As required by I.C. 36-1-5-4, two copies of the above lifting device
standards incorporated by reference are on file in the Office of the Clerk for
the legislative body for public inspection.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-23-05)
ILLEGAL USE OF REAL ESTATE
§ 150.60 REAL ESTATE USED FOR THE ILLEGAL SALE OF DRUGS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the use of non-owner-occupied real
property to commit an act constituting an offense under I.C. 35-48-4 shall be
deemed a civil nuisance.
   (B)   The provisions of I.C. 32-30-8, as amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated by reference and shall be utilized by the town in the
abatement of a drug-related civil nuisance.
   (C)   The procedures hereinafter set forth shall be followed prior to the
town initiating an action pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8.
   (D)   No owner of real estate located in the town shall knowingly allow it
to be used in such a manner so as to constitute a civil nuisance as defined
herein. An owner of such real estate is deemed to have knowledge of such
activity upon receipt of notice as provided in division (F) herein. For
purposes of this section, an OWNER OF REAL ESTATE is defined as any person or
entity that, alone or with others, has legal or equitable title to any real
property. When any real property is owned by more than one person or entity, or
when legal and equitable title is held by different persons or entities, all
such persons or entities shall be jointly and severally liable for any
violations of this section.
   (E)   Upon receipt of any report or complaint of suspected activity
constituting a civil nuisance as defined herein, the Police Department shall
conduct an investigation that it deems necessary. At any time prior to or
during the investigation, the Department shall, when deemed appropriate under
the circumstances, send an initial warning letter to the owner and/or occupant
of the property that it suspects such activity may be occurring, and that an
investigation is about to commence or is ongoing. The initial warning letter
shall inform the recipient that:
      (1)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, it is a
violation of both state and local law;
      (2)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, it may
result in fines being assessed pursuant to this code of ordinances;
      (3)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the owner
must abate the suspected nuisance by evicting those responsible, to avoid any
fines being assessed under this section;
      (4)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the Police
Department will, at the owner’s request, deliver an eviction notice to the
responsible tenant;
      (5)   If their investigation reveals that a civil nuisance is in fact
taking place, the town and the Police Department intend to take further legal
action; and
      (6)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the
property owner will be notified and given the opportunity to abate the nuisance
before any fines are assessed.
   (F)   Whenever the Police Department determines that a civil nuisance, as
defined in division (A) herein, exists, which determination must be made by the
Chief of Police or a designated officer, the Police shall, when deemed
appropriate under the circumstances, cause written notice to be served on the
owner and occupant that a present occupant or tenant of that property has been
using it so as to constitute a civil nuisance, as defined herein, or has been
allowing it to be so used. The notice shall contain a copy of this section, and
shall inform the recipient of the following:
      (1)   That a civil nuisance exists on the property;
      (2)   The date and time the civil nuisance was first discovered;
      (3)   The location on the property where the civil nuisance is allegedly
occurring;
      (4)   That such activity is a violation of both state and local law;
      (5)   That such activity may result in fines being assessed pursuant to
this code of ordinances;
      (6)   That the owner must abate the civil nuisance by evicting those
responsible, to avoid any fines being assessed under this section;
      (7)   That, if the owner chooses to abate the civil nuisance by evicting
those responsible, he or she must so inform the Police Department, in writing,
and commence the eviction within 30 days of receipt of this notice;
      (8)   That the Police Department will, at the owner’s request, deliver an
eviction notice to the property; and
      (9)   That, if the owner fails to abate the civil nuisance, the town and
the Police Department may take further legal action, including, but not limited
to, filing suit pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8.
   (G)   After receiving an initial warning letter or second notification under
this section, if a property owner so requests, an eviction notice signed by the
property owner shall be delivered to the responsible tenant by the Police
Department. (The Police Department shall inform the property owner that, if the
tenant or occupant refuses to leave, it will be necessary to file an eviction
proceeding through the proper court.)
   (H)   (1)   The notice required pursuant to division (F) shall be given by:
         (a)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to
the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be notified,
with return receipt requested;
         (b)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
         (c)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or
usual place of abode of the person to be notified.
      (2)   If, after a reasonable effort, service is not obtained by a means
described in division (H)(1), service may be made by publishing the notice in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
      (3)   Notice is deemed given to the owner, upon receipt of notice as
indicated above, by the owner of record pursuant to the records and files of
the County Assessor’s Office.
   (I)   Within 30 days of receipt of notice in accordance with division (F),
the owner must initiate such legal action as is necessary to evict all persons
responsible for or permitting the civil nuisance (which shall include, at a
minimum, a notice of eviction delivered by the Police Department or the
property owner by serving notice pursuant to I.C. 34-19-3-5), and must
diligently prosecute such legal action to a conclusion.
   (J)   In the case of a multiple unit dwelling, the only person necessary to
name in an eviction proceeding is the tenant/occupant occupying the actual unit
involved with the nuisance as defined herein.
   (K)   Charging an owner of real estate with a violation of this section
shall be adjunct to, and not a substitution for, any criminal charges filed
against occupants or tenants of that owner’s real estate for any illegal
activity.
   (L)   The Chief of Police shall use reasonable efforts to train, educate and
assist owners of real estate in evicting, and avoiding the placement of,
tenants or occupants in their real estate who are known perpetrators of illegal
activities under I.C. 35-48-4.
   (M)   Any owner of real estate violating this section, which violation
causes the town to begin its own eviction process pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8,
shall be fined $50 to assist with costs associated in utilizing state law. No
fines shall be assessed until at least 30 days after receipt of notice required
by division (F). Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation, beginning with the thirty-first day following receipt of notice as
required by division (F).
   (N)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to encourage or authorize
the discrimination by lessors against any persons based upon race, creed,
religion, sex, age or national origin. Rather, it is the intent of this section
to hold persons accountable for acquiescing in or participating in the
continued use of his or her property as the location of illegal drug activity.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-3-18)
§ 150.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   When a violation of this chapter is found to exist, the town's
representative shall notify the property owner and occupant as follows:
   (A)   Written notice of violation shall be served upon the owner and
occupant by personal service or by certified mail with a copy of the notice
being sent by regular first class U.S. mail, postage prepaid. The notice shall
grant a minimum of ten calendar days to cure the violation.
   (B)   Whenever the town's representative, after the expiration of the notice
time period, determines that the property owner and occupant have neglected or
refused to cure the violation, the town's representative may cause a citation
to be issued against the owner and occupant.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 7-18-17)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity violating §§
150.08 and
150.09 of Ch. 150 shall, in addition to any enforcement processes contained in
this chapter, be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First offense: $50;
      (2)   Second offense: $100;
      (3)   Third offense: $150; and
      (4)   Fourth offense or more: up to $2,500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues. The assessed fine may be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Paoli within 72 hours in full satisfaction of
the assessed penalty. In the event that such payment is not made within the
period prescribed, proceedings may be filed in the county court of competent
jurisdiction. Funds generated from the assessed fines shall be placed in a fund
to defray the expenses incurred by the Town of Paoli in enforcing this section.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 7-18-17)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
151.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of Administrator
   
151.26   Permit procedures
   
151.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.43   Critical facility
   
151.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
151.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
151.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
151.47   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
151.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.62   Variance procedures
   
151.63   Conditions for variances
   
151.64   Variance notification
   
151.65   Historic structure
   
151.66   Special conditions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council of the Town of Paoli (the “Town of Paoli”) does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones Al A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no
base flood elevation or depths are shown.
      ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones
Al-A30.)
      ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an
under-construction Federal flood protection system. These are areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AB Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
the Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. means a facility for which even a slight chance of
flooding might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited
to, schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called
chain walls), pilings, or columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community, Flood Insurance Study (FIS) is the official
hydraulic and hydrologic report provided by FEMA. The report contains flood
profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM (where applicable), and the water surface
elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (see FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water, All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (As related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town
Council of the Town of Paoli requires that the variance is exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations,
physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997, will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of
Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision
based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are presented below:
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).  An official republication of a community’s
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “Base Flood”, “1% Annual
Chance Flood”, and “100-Year Flood”.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the Town of
Paoli are generally identified as such on the Orange County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated May 19, 2014 as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM
as Zone A, AE, Al- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations requited for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a mariner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C).
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Paoli.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Orange County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated May 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Orange County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated May 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any ivatercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and
the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the profiles shall
govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the Town of Paoli, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council of the Town of Paoli hereby appoints the Clerk-Treasurer,
to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
151.27(B)(6) for additional information).
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. The certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by the same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted.) The applicant shall correct
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification shall be at
the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the elevation
certification or failure to make correction required shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direction supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required
to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be submitted
by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
151.44 and
151.46(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.26.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.26.
      (13)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the floodplain administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
151.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
of this section.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) of this section. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be
floodproofed in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
151.27(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than 1 foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) of this section.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) of this section.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) of this section.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.43 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/ improvement to a residence
in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteenhundredths (0.15) of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses. For all projects
involving channel modifications or fill (including levees) the town shall
submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency Management Agency revise
the regulatory flood data per mapping standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. §
65.12.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.46 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood damages
or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
151.40 through
151.47.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 151.60 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Town Council of the Town of Paoli shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Orange County Circuit
Court.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such
damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
151.44 or
151.46(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
151.44 or
151.46(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
151.41, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (See §
151.64).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See §
151.64).
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Town Council may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $2,500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the Town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-7-14)
CHAPTER 152: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
152.01   State law adopted by reference
   
152.02   Definitions
§ 152.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The state law for enforcement of building standards contained in I.C. 36-7-
9 is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 8-19-98)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of I.C. 36-7-9 by ordinance, see I.C. 36-7-9-3
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Building Inspector of the town.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Town Council.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest, a present possessory
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser. In a consolidated
town, the interest reflected by a deed, lease, license, mortgage, land sale
contract, or lien is not a substantial property interest unless the deed,
lease, license, mortgage, land sale contract, lien, or evidence of it is:
      (1)   Recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or
      (2)   The subject of a written information that is received by the
Division of Code Enforcement and includes the name and address of the holder of
the interest described.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 8-19-98)
CHAPTER 153: HOUSING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Street right-of-way and grading
   
153.03   Street pavement requirements and costs
   
153.04   Costs for laying sewer lines and water lines
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A roofed structure for the shelter, support, enclosure or
protection of persons, animals or property.
   DWELLING. A building or part of a building that is used primarily as a place
of abode, including a mobile home.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A parcel, tract or area of land owned by any person or
persons, firm or corporation, the owner of which shall sell five or more lots
for the purpose of constructing five or more dwellings or other structures
thereof, or shall construct five or more dwellings or other structures thereon
for the purpose of selling the same.
   LOT. A parcel, tract or area of land accessible by means of a street or
place, abutting upon a street or place.
   UNDEVELOPED AREAS. Areas and tracts of land within the corporate limits of
the town in which no streets have been opened, in order to give access thereto
for the purpose of laying out lots and the construction of dwellings and other
structures as herein defined.
(Ord. 2003-03, passed 5-6-03; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 9-4-07; Am. Ord. 2008-05,
passed 10-7-08)
§ 153.02 STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY AND GRADING.
   In all housing projects or developments for the construction of houses and
other structures as herein defined, within the corporate limits of the town in
areas presently undeveloped, a right-of-way of 50 feet shall be established for
each street that may be opened in a development, in the event that no street
has heretofore been opened therein. Each new street shall be graded and
provided storm sewerage, installed per town specifications. An on-site
inspection is to be conducted by the Town Superintendent and the Town Council.
All street preparation shall be at the expense of the owner of the land or the
owner of the land adjacent to such street should the same have been dedicated
but not opened.
(Ord. 2003-03, passed 5-6-03; Am. Ord. 2008-05, passed 10-7-08)
§ 153.03 STREET PAVEMENT REQUIREMENTS AND COSTS.
   (A)   All such streets shall be paved as follows: a 12-inch road base of
#63's, four inches of #9's hot mix for base, and two inches of finished hot
mix.
   (B)   Street width is to be 20 feet with curb apron. The curb apron will be
two feet wide, back to be 12 inches high in back and six inches high on front.
The cost of paving of such streets shall be borne wholly and solely by the
owners of the land over, along, across and upon which such streets shall be
laid out. In the case such streets shall have been previously dedicated but
unopened, paving shall be at the sole cost of the abutting land owner on each
side thereof, each abutting land owner paying one-half of the costs of the
paving adjacent to their lands as aforesaid. Curbs and gutters and curb aprons
shall be constructed by the land owner or the land owner adjacent to the
street, as aforesaid, at the sole expense of the land owner, the same to be
constructed of the land owner, the same to be constructed in accordance with
the plans and specifications therefor provided by the town, and subject to the
approval of the Town Council.
   (C)   A performance bond in the amount of 100% of the estimated construction
cost shall be posted with the town before any construction activities may
occur. The value of such bond shall be established by the Town Council. This
bond may be in the form of a certified check, passbook account, insurance
surety or other means deemed appropriate by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2003-03, passed 5-6-03; Am. Ord. 2008-05, passed 10-7-08)
§ 153.04 COSTS FOR LAYING SEWER LINES AND WATER LINES.
   The land owner of any street opened up in a new housing development in the
town, as herein defined, or the land owners abutting on such street, in the
event that the same shall have been previously dedicated but not opened, shall
cause the laying of all sewer lines and water lines through and under such
street prior to the paving at the sole expense of the land owner. This shall be
subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2003-03, passed 5-6-03; Am. Ord. 2008-05, passed 10-7-08)
CHAPTER 154: VACANT AND ABANDONED STRUCTURES
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of state law
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Adoption of chapter; rules and procedures
   
154.04   Administration and enforcement; court costs and attorney’s fees
   
154.05   Vacant or abandoned structure; notice and order to abate
   
154.06   Civil penalties on owners; exceptions; limits
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-36-7, the town hereby adopts by ordinance I.C. 36-7-
36, titled Abatement of Vacant Structures and Abandoned Structures. The town
further adopts amendments thereto, as set forth by ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-7-12; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-12)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Commercial real property or a vacant structure on commercial real
property that is used or was previously used for industrial or commercial
purposes, and:
         (a)   That the owner of the property or structure has declared in
writing to be abandoned; or
         (b)   For which the owner of the property or structure has been given
a written order by an enforcement authority to rehabilitate or demolish, and
the owner:
            1.   Has not applied for a permit to rehabilitate or demolish the
property or structure; or
            2.   Applied for and was granted a permit, but rehabilitation or
demolition work has not commenced on the property or structure within 30 days
after the date the permit was granted.
      (2)   Real property that has not been used for a legal purpose for at
least six consecutive months and:
         (a)   In the judgment of an enforcement authority, is in need of
completion, rehabilitation, or repair, and completion, rehabilitation, or
repair work has not taken place on the property for at least six consecutive
months;
         (b)   On which at least one installment of property taxes is
delinquent; or
         (c)   That has been declared a public nuisance by a hearing authority.
      (3)   Real property that has been declared in writing to be abandoned by
the owner, including an estate or a trust that possesses the property.
      (4)   Vacant real property on which a municipal lien has remained unpaid
for at least one year.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2. The
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY for the town is the Town Council.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
   OWNER. A person that holds a substantial interest in property in the form of
a known or recorded fee interest, life estate, or equitable interest as a
contract purchaser.
   VACANT REAL PROPERTY. Real property that is not being occupied by an owner,
tenant, or others authorized by the owner.
   VACANT STRUCTURE. A structure or building that is not being occupied by an
owner, tenant, or others authorized by the owner.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-7-12; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, I.C. 36-7-36-1 through 36-7-36-6
§ 154.03 ADOPTION OF CHAPTER; RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The legislative body of the town:
   (A)   May adopt I.C. 36-7-36 by ordinance; and
   (B)   If the legislative body adopts I.C. 36-7-36 by ordinance, shall adopt
rules and procedures for its enforcement.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-7-12; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, I.C. 36-7-36-7
§ 154.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; COURT COSTS AND ATTORNEY’S FEES.
   (A)   An enforcement authority may administer and enforce this chapter in
conjunction with any enforcement or civil action under I.C. 32-30-6, I.C. 32-
30-7, I.C. 32-30-8, I.C. 36-1-6, or I.C. 36-7-9.
   (B)   Under all enforcement and civil actions designated under division (A),
the enforcement authority is entitled to recover court costs and attorney’s
fees.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-7-12; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, I.C. 36-7-36-8
§ 154.05 VACANT OR ABANDONED STRUCTURE; NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE.
   (A)   If an enforcement authority determines that a vacant structure or an
abandoned structure exists, an abatement notice and order may be sent to the
owner that directs the owner to:
      (1)   Abate the vacant structure or abandoned structure by cleaning and
securing or boarding up the vacant structure or abandoned structure and the
premises upon which it is located; and
      (2)   Erect fences, barriers, berms, or other suitable means to
discourage:
         (a)   Access to the vacant structure or abandoned structure; and
         (b)   Illegal dumping or littering on the premises upon which the
vacant structure or abandoned structure exists.
   (B)   Notices given hereunder shall be given by the Town Attorney.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-36-7(2), the abatement notices sent by the Town
Attorney for the town to the owner of a vacant or abandoned property pursuant
to this chapter shall state that the owner has 30 days to abate the vacant or
abandoned structure, and, if the property is not abated within 30 days of the
date of the notice, civil penalties will be applied pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-7-12; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, I.C. 36-7-36-9
§ 154.06 CIVIL PENALTIES ON OWNERS; EXCEPTIONS; LIMITS.
   (A)   An owner of a property that remains a vacant structure or an abandoned
structure for at least 30 consecutive calendar days may be liable for a civil
penalty in the amount of $500 per vacant structure or abandoned structure, not
to exceed $5,000 per structure per year, unless:
      (1)   Documentation has been filed and approved by the enforcement
authority that indicates the owner’s intent to eliminate the vacant structure
or abandoned structure status of the property;
      (2)   The owner is current on all property taxes and special assessments;
and
      (3)   At least one of the following applies:
         (a)   The structure is the subject of a valid building permit for
repair or rehabilitation and the owner is proceeding diligently and in good
faith to complete the repair or rehabilitation of the structure as defined in
the enforcement order.
         (b)   The structure is:
            1.   Maintained in compliance with this chapter; and
            2.   Actively being offered for sale, lease, or rent.
         (c)   The owner can demonstrate that the owner made a diligent and
good faith effort to implement actions approved by the enforcement authority.
   (B)   (1)   If the structure continues to remain a vacant structure beyond
the initial 30 days described in division (A) and the owner does not meet any
of the exceptions set forth in this section, the enforcement authority may
continue to assess penalties each year on each structure in the following
amounts:
         (a)   One thousand dollars for the second 30 calendar day period each
structure remains a vacant structure or an abandoned structure.
         (b)   One thousand five hundred dollars for the third 30 calendar day
period each structure remains a vacant structure or an abandoned structure.
         (c)   Two thousand dollars for the fourth and each subsequent 30
calendar day period thereafter each structure remains a vacant structure or an
abandoned structure.
      (2)   A civil penalty under this division may not exceed $5,000 per
structure per year.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-7-12; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, I.C. 36-7-36-10
CHAPTER 155: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Editor's note:
This Chapter 155 was originally enacted by an ordinance on May 7, 2015. Said
ordinance was amended by ordinances and resolutions passed on: April 8, 2015;
September 22, 2015; July 5, 2016; August 1, 2017; February 5, 2019; October 6,
2020; August 17, 2021; and April 5, 2022. Subsequent amendments to the
resolution passed on April 5, 2022 will be indicated by legislation histories
placed at the end of the affected sections.
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Applicability
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Intent
Plan Commission
   
155.015   Jurisdiction and authority
   
155.016   Membership
   
155.017   Duties and powers
   
155.018   Actions and decisions
   
155.019   Meeting schedule
   
155.020   Petition hearing procedures
   
155.021   General meeting conduct and procedures
   
155.022   Filing of petitions
   
155.023   Public notice
   
155.024   Docketing of cases
   
155.025   Officers, Plan Commission records
   
155.026   Amendments of rules and procedures
   
155.027   Adoption and amendment history of rules and procedures
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.040   Jurisdiction and authority
   
155.041   Membership
   
155.042   Duties and powers
   
155.043   Actions and decisions
   
155.044   Meeting schedule
   
155.045   Petition hearing procedures
   
155.046   General meeting conduct and procedures
   
155.047   Filing of petitions
   
155.048   Public notice
   
155.049   Docketing of cases
   
155.050   Officers, Board of Zoning Appeals records
   
155.051   Amendments of rules and procedures
   
155.052   Adoption and amendment history of rules and procedures
Zoning Districts
   
155.065   General
   
155.066   Uses not listed
   
155.067   Development standards
   
155.068   Agriculture
   
155.069   Single-Family Residential
   
155.070   Multi-Family Residential
   
155.071   Mixed-Use Residential
   
155.072   Highway Commercial
   
155.073   General Commercial
   
155.074   Town Square
   
155.075   General Industrial
   
155.076   Light Industrial
   
155.077   Buffer
   
155.078   Floodplain Overlay District
Site Standards
   
155.090   Landscaping and bufferyards
   
155.091   Location, maintenance, planting size and landscape plan
   
155.092   Determination of bufferyard requirements
   
155.093   Bufferyard requirements, uses and ownership
   
155.094   Lighting, lots and setbacks
   
155.095   Parking and loading
   
155.096   General sign standards
   
155.097   Agriculture sign standards
   
155.098   Single-Family Residential sign standards
   
155.099   Multi-Family Residential sign standards
   
155.100   Town Square sign standards
   
155.101   Commercial and Industrial sign standards
   
155.102   Storage
   
155.103   Structures
Use Standards
   
155.115   General
   
155.116   Cemetery or crematory
   
155.117   Confined feeding operations
   
155.118   Home occupations
   
155.119   Junk yard
   
155.120   Kennels
   
155.121   Mobile home park
Zoning Administration and Procedures
   
155.135   Ordinance administration
   
155.136   Plan Commission
   
155.137   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.138   Development plans
   
155.139   Improvement location permits
   
155.140   Complaints, violations and remedies
   
155.141   Fee schedule
Subdivisions
   
155.155   Commercial
   
155.156   Industrial
   
155.157   Residential
Subdivision Design Regulations
   
155.170   General
   
155.171   Drainage and erosion control
   
155.172   Lots and setbacks
   
155.173   Open space
   
155.174   Plat sheets
   
155.175   Spaces set aside for public use
   
155.176   Streets
   
155.177   Utilities
Non-Conforming
   
155.190   Lots, structures and uses
   
155.191   Lots of record
   
155.192   Structures
   
155.193   Uses of land
Subdivision Administration and Procedures
   
155.205   Residential subdivisions; minor
   
155.206   Residential subdivisions; major
   
155.207   Commercial subdivisions
   
155.208   Industrial subdivisions
   
155.209   Waivers
   
155.210   Performance and maintenance sureties
General Definitions
   
155.220   Definitions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all incorporated land within the Town of Paoli
and the unincorporated land within Paoli's extra-territorial jurisdiction as
shown on the jurisdictional area map on file in the Plan Commission Office and
the Orange County Recorder's Office.
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) is to combine the
Zoning Ordinance and the Subdivision Control Ordinance into a single document
in order to reduce redundancy and improve efficiency in the application of land
development laws for the Town of Paoli.
   (A)   Subdivision Control Ordinance. The regulations established for the
administration of a subdivision control ordinance under I.C. 36-7-4 are covered
specifically in this UDO by §§
155.135 through
155.141,
155.155 through
155.157 and
155.170 through
155.177.
   (B)   Zoning Ordinance. The regulations established for the administration
of a zoning ordinance under I.C. 36-7-4 are covered by all other subchapters of
this UDO.
§ 155.003 INTENT.
   The intent of this UDO is to promote the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare and more specifically to:
   (A)   Accomplish the purposes of I.C. 36-7-4: Local Planning and Zoning; and
further such other purposes as are stated hereinafter within specific
provisions of this UDO;
   (B)   Guide the orderly, responsible and sustainable development and
redevelopment in accordance with the Town of Paoli Comprehensive Plan and all
of its components;
   (C)   Define the powers and duties of administrative officers and bodies as
provided herein, and to establish procedures for the implementation and
enforcement of this UDO;
   (D)   Establish reasonable standards and procedures for subdivisions, in
order to further the orderly layout and use of land;
   (E)   Reduce traffic congestion in public streets and ensure safe,
convenient, and efficient traffic circulation;
   (F)   Prevent the pollution of air, water, and soil;
   (G)   Protect the character and stability of residential, institutional,
business, industrial, and natural areas;
   (H)   Encourage compatibility between different land uses and to protect the
scale and character of existing development from the encroachment of
incompatible uses;
   (I)   Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage,
schools, parks, and other public facilities; and
   (J)   Establish corrective and punitive recourse for violations or
noncompliance regarding the provisions of this UDO.
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 155.015 JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Plan Commission authority. The authority to review, approve, and grant
the petitions and permits listed in the Unified Development Ordinance shall
rest with the Paoli Plan Commission (PC). Where permitted, the PC may, at its
discretion, delegate such authority to the Town Planner.
   (B)   The PC shall have jurisdiction over all land within the established
municipal boundary of the Town of Paoli as defined by description or map in the
Orange County Recorder's Office.
   (C)   Town Planner. The Town Planner, including any staff members or other
designee(s), shall have the principal responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of the Unified Development Ordinance. Their duties shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   Improvement location permits (ILP). Receiving, approving, or
disapproving all improvement location permits and keeping permanent records of
applications made and actions taken. An ILP, also referred to as a building
permit, is a permit for the erection, alteration, or repair of any structure.
      (2)   Inspections. Conducting inspections of structures and properties to
determine compliance with the requirements of the Unified Development Ordinance
and all approvals granted by the PC, Town Council, Committees, or other body in
the execution of its duties as established by the Unified Development Ordinance
and Indiana State Code.
      (3)   Record keeping. Maintaining permanent and current records
documenting the application of the Unified Development Ordinance including, but
not limited to, all maps, plats, amendments, and petitions.
      (4)   PC Applications. Receiving, processing docketing, and referring to
the PC all appropriate applications.
      (5)   Clerical and technical assistance. Providing all such clerical and
technical assistance as may be required by the PC, Technical Advisory Committee
(TAC), any of its other Committees, the Town Council, or other body in the
execution of its duties as established by the Unified Development Ordinance and
Indiana State Code.
      (6)   Committee applications. Receiving, processing, docketing, and
referring all appropriate applications to the TAC and any of its other
committees.
   (D)   Town Planner's right of referral. The Town Planner may, at their
discretion, refer applicants for permits and petitions to the PC for review and
approval.
   (E)   Roberts Rules of Order. Roberts Rules of Order are hereby incorporated
by reference and made a part of these rules and shall control on issues and
procedures not expressly provided for herein.
§ 155.016 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Membership of the PC.
MEMBERSHIP OF THE PC
Member Appointment Initial Term Qualifications Residency
MEMBERSHIP OF THE PC
Member Appointment    Initial Term             Qualifications  Residency
       Town Council
1      Town official                           Elected or
       or employee                             appointed
       Town Council   Coextensive with term of municipal
2      Town official  office or employment, or official or     No residency
       or employee    until another member is  employee of the requirement
       Town Council   appointed to serve.      municipal
3      Town official                           government
       or employee

       Town Council                 January 1,
4      President Town May 1, 2012   2018       Citizen member
       citizen                                 who is
       Town Council                 January 1, knowledgeable
5      President Town May 1, 2012   2018       and experienced A resident of
       citizen                                 in community    the PC's
       Town Council                 January 1, affairs, aware  jurisdiction
6      President Town May 1, 2012   2019       of the social,  OR
       citizen                                 economic,       a resident of
                                               agricultural,   Orange County
                                               and industrial  and owns
                                               problems of the property within
       Town Council                            area, and       the PC's
7      President Town November 18,  January 1, interested in   jurisdiction
       citizen        2014          2019       the development
                                               and integration
                                               of the area


       County                       January 1,
8      Commissioners  April 8, 2015 2019       Citizen member
       County citizen                          who is
                                               knowledgeable   A resident of
                                               and experienced the PC's
                                               in community    jurisdiction
                                               affairs, aware  (outside of
                                               of the social,  town limits but
                                               economic,       within PC's
       County                                  agricultural,   jurisdiction),
9      Commissioners  Position      Positio n  and industrial  resident of
       County citizen Vacant        Vacant     problems of the Orange County
                                               area, and       and owns
                                               interested in   property within
                                               the development the PC's
                                               and integration jurisdiction
                                               of the area
 
   (B)   Composition. The PC shall consist of seven members as prescribed by
I.C. 36-7-4-207(b) and Paoli Ordinance 2012-05. They shall serve the terms as
described in the same Paoli Ordinance.
   (C)   Qualifications for citizen members. The qualifications for citizen
members shall be as prescribed by I.C. 36-7-4-216.
   (D)   Certification. The clerk of the Town Council shall certify members
appointed by their respective bodies, and the Town Council President shall
certify their appointments. The certificates shall be sent to and made a part
of the records of the PC (I.C. 36-7-4-212).
   (E)   Removal of members. Members may be removed from the PC by the
respective appointing authority prior to the end of their term for failure to
appear at three consecutive, regularly scheduled PC meetings.
§ 155.017 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The following duties should be interpreted as activities that are
obligations of the PC (I.C. 36-7-4-401, 402, and 405):
      (1)   Prescribe the qualifications of, appoint, remove, and fix the
compensation of the employees of the Commission, consistent with the
compensation fixed by the Town Council.
      (2)   Supervise and make rules for the administration of the affairs of
the Commission;
      (3)   Prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and hearings;
      (4)   Keep a complete record of all proceedings;
      (5)   Record and file all bonds and contracts and assume responsibility
for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the Commission;
      (6)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports, ordinances, and other
material relating to the activities authorized by Indiana State Code;
      (7)   Adopt a seal;
      (8)   Certify all official acts;
      (9)   Supervise the fiscal affairs of the Commission;
      (10)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as other
departments of municipal government, and be limited in all expenditures to the
provisions made for the expenditures by the fiscal body of the municipality;
      (11)   Make recommendations to the Town Council or other bodies
concerning:
         (a)   The adoption of the comprehensive plan and amendments to the
comprehensive plan;
         (b)   The adoption or text amendment of: an initial unified
development ordinance, a replacement unified development ordinance, and a
subdivision control ordinance;
         (c)   The adoption or amendment of a PUD District ordinance (if
enabled); and
         (d)   Zone map changes.
      (12)   Render decisions concerning plats, replats, and amendments to
plats of subdivisions;
      (13)   Assign addresses;
      (14)   Render decisions concerning development plans and amendments to
development plans unless otherwise delegated.
      (15)   All additional duties as established by Indiana State Code.
   (B)   Powers. The following powers should be interpreted as activities that
are optional and may be initiated by the PC within their jurisdiction pursuant
to Indiana State Statute:
      (1)   Establish committees as necessary, composed of specific members,
and organized for specific purpose;
      (2)   Establish an executive committee;
      (3)   Seek funding assistance through grant programs and donations as
necessary;
      (4)   Establish a schedule of fees to be approved by the Town Council to
defray the administrative costs of the official action of the Commission;
      (5)   Appoint and fix the duties of the secretary;
      (6)   Contract for special or temporary services and professional
counsel;
      (7)   All additional powers as permitted by Indiana State Code.
   (C)   Commitments. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1015(a), as a condition to the:
      (1)   Adoption of a rezoning proposal;
      (2)   Primary approval of a proposed subdivision plat or development
plan; or
      (3)   Approval of a vacation of all or part of the plat; the PC may
require or allow the owner of a parcel of real property to make a commitment to
the Commission concerning the use or development of that parcel. Pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-4-1015(c), the PC hereby declares that the criteria to be considered
when an owner applies for the modification or termination of a commitment made
under these rules and procedures are the same criteria that applied to the
proposal when the Commission originally recommended adoption or granted
approval, as the case may be.
§ 155.018 ACTIONS AND DECISIONS.
   (A)   Petition consideration.
PETITION CONSIDERATION
Application Type Staff PC Town Council
PETITION CONSIDERATION
Application Type      Staff                  PC                  Town Council
Zoning Map Amendment  Review                 Recommendation      Final Decision
Zoning Text Amendment Review                 Recommendation      Final Decision
PUD (if enabled)      Review                 Recommendation      Final Decision
Primary Plat          Review                 Final Decision
Development Plan                             Final Decision,
                      Review, however the PC however the PC may
                      may delegate decision- delegate decision-
Secondary Plat        making authority to    making authority to
                      the Town Planner       the Town Planner
 
   (B)   Decisions.
DECISIONS
Application Type Staff PC Town Council
DECISIONS
Application Type      Staff                PC                   Town Council
Zoning Map Amendment                       - Favorable          Final Decision
Zoning Text Amendment                      Recommendation (with
                                           or without
                                           conditions)
                      Review and make      - Unfavorable
                      recommendations      Recommendation (with
PUD (if enabled)                           or without
                                           conditions)
                                           - No Recommendation
                                           (with or without
                                           conditions)
                      Review and make
                      recommendations with - Approve (with or
Primary Plat          assistance from the  without conditions)
                      Technical Advisory   - Disapprove
                      Committee (TAC)
Development Plan      Review and make
                      recommendations with
                      assistance from the
                      Technical Advisory   - Approve (with or
                      Committee (TAC),     without conditions)
Secondary Plat        however the PC may   - Disapprove
                      delegate decision-
                      making authority to
                      the Town Planner
 
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum is a majority of the full membership of the PC.
   (D)   Official action. Action of the PC is official when concurred by a
majority of the full membership.
   (E)   Tie votes. When a vote of the PC results in a tie, the matter may be
resolved by:
      (1)   A new motion to reconsider the matter and followed by a re-vote; or
      (2)   Re-docketing the matter for the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the PC.
   (F)   Indecisive vote. In any case where a vote of the PC does not result in
official action, the petition shall be automatically re-docketed for the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the PC.
   (G)   Continuance. A continuance may be requested for sufficient cause by
the petitioner, by an interested party, or a member of the PC. It shall be
within the discretion of the PC to grant or deny any request for continuance.
Re-notification shall not be required if a petition is continued at a properly
noticed public hearing/meeting to a specified future hearing/meeting date of
the PC.
      (1)   Continuance request by the petitioner. A request for continuance by
the petitioner may be filed in writing prior to the PC's hearing/meeting or
made orally at the beginning of the PC meeting when the agenda is considered.
However, the petitioner shall be prepared to move forward with their petition
until the continuance request is granted by the PC.
      (2)   Continuance request by an interested party. A request for
continuance by an interested party may be filed in writing prior to the PC's
hearing/meeting or made orally at the beginning of the PC meeting when the
agenda is considered. The interested party shall be prepared for the petition
to move forward until the continuance request is granted by the PC. For
purposes of a public hearing, an "interested party" is any individual whose
right to use, acquire, or enjoy property is or may be affected by action taken
by the PC.
      (3)   Continuance request by a member of the PC. A member of the PC may
make a motion of continuance for consideration by the PC.
      (4)   Meeting limitations. An automatic continuance that occurs because
of meeting time limitations does not count as a requested continuance described
in this section.
   (H)   Withdrawal of petitions.
      (1)   No petition may be withdrawn by the petitioner after a vote has
been ordered by the president or chairperson presiding at the meeting.
      (2)   A petition which has been withdrawn by the petitioner shall not
again be placed on the docket for consideration by the PC within a period of 90
days from the date of withdrawal, except upon a motion by a PC member to permit
re-docketing and approved by the unanimous vote of the quorum present.
   (I)   Dismissal. The PC may dismiss a case for want of prosecution or for
lack of jurisdiction.
§ 155.019 MEETING SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Application schedule. The Town Planner shall develop and maintain an
annual application schedule, which is a calendar of meetings and filing dates
for the Plan Commission, TAC, and any of its other committees. The existence of
this calendar shall not be interpreted as prohibiting special meetings of the
PC or its committees.
   (B)   Coordination of calendars. The calendars of the PC, TAC, and its other
committees shall be coordinated to ensure the efficient processing of
applications.
   (C)   Compliance with Indiana State Code. All meeting and filing dates shall
be based on the requirements of the Unified Development Ordinance and the laws
of the State of Indiana.
   (D)   Approval of dates. The application schedule shall be prepared by the
Town Planner and approved by the PC, wherein the PC shall be responsible for
approving a coordinated calendar for the TAC and any of its other committees.
   (E)   Maintenance. The application schedule shall be reviewed and updated
annually by the Town Planner and posted in the Paoli Town Hall and/or on the
town's website.
§ 155.020 PETITION HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Order of business. The PC shall follow the following order of
business:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (3)   Agenda consideration (and consideration of requested continuances);
      (4)   Minutes;
      (5)   Public comment for items not on the agenda;
      (6)   Old business:
         (a)   Public hearings on petitions;
         (b)   Other petitions for consideration; and
         (c)   Other business.
      (7)   New business:
         (a)   Public hearings on petitions;
         (b)   Other petitions for consideration; and
         (c)   Other business.
      (8)   New business from the floor;
      (9)   Announcements; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Procedure for public comment for items not on the agenda. The PC shall
allot a total of five minutes for public comment for items not on the agenda.
Each individual wishing to speak shall be allowed three minutes.
   (C)   Procedure for petition consideration. Each petition before the PC
shall generally be allotted a total of 25 minutes for the presentation of
evidence, comments, and questions at the public hearing. The president (or
presiding member) shall have the authority to extend the time periods specified
below where appropriate, unless otherwise directed by a majority of the quorum
present.
      (1)   Introduction. The president shall introduce the petition and open
it for discussion.
      (2)   Presentation. The petitioner shall have a total of 20 minutes for
the presentation of their petition.
      (3)   Staff and public official's report. The Town Planner shall present
the staff and public official's report for the petition.
      (4)   Public discussion.
         (a)   Discussion of support. Persons in support of the petition shall
have a total of ten minutes to present evidence, comments, and questions
relevant to the matter being considered.
         (b)   Discussion of neutrality. Persons neutral on the petition shall
have a total of ten minutes to present evidence, comments, and questions
relevant to the matter being considered.
         (c)   Discussion of opposition. Persons in opposition of the petition
shall have a total of ten minutes to present evidence, comments, and questions
relevant to the matter being considered. Closing remarks by petitioner. The
petitioner shall have a total of five minutes for closing remarks as well as
responding to the presentation of evidence, comments, and questions raised
during the public discussion.
      (5)   Discussion of PC. The president shall close the public discussion
portion of the hearing and call for questions and comments from members of the
PC.
      (6)   Call for vote.
         (a)   The president shall call for a motion and a second on the case
being heard.
         (b)   The president shall call for discussion.
         (c)   The president shall do a role call for a vote on the motion. The
call for the member casting the first vote shall rotate after each petition.
   (D)   Meeting limitations. No petition shall be introduced for consideration
after 10:00 p.m. Agenda items remaining on the agenda shall be automatically
placed at the beginning of the agenda at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the PC.
§ 155.021 GENERAL MEETING CONDUCT AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Orderly conduct. Every person appearing before the PC shall abide by
the order and direction of the president. Discourteous, disorderly, or
contemptuous conduct shall be regarded as a breach of the privileges and shall
be dealt with as the president deems fair and proper.
   (B)   Appearance at meetings. Any party may appear in person or by
representative (person, agent, attorney, etc) at PC meetings. A representative
may testify to the facts that he has particular knowledge of that relate to the
issues of the petition. In so testifying, the representative shall be subject
to cross-examination and questions.
   (C)   Contacting members. No person (including applicants, remonstrators,
and others) may communicate with any member of the PC before a hearing with the
intent to influence the member's action on a matter pending before the PC.
   (D)   Basis for decisions. Actions of the PC shall be based upon:
      (1)   Information made part of the permanent record;
      (2)   The information submitted at the meeting and made part of the
permanent record;
      (3)   The testimony received at the meeting and made part of the
permanent record;
      (4)   The applicable ordinances that are in effect and relevant to the
petition (i.e. Unified Development Ordinance).
   (E)   Site visit. Members shall have the right to inspect land involved in
any petition to be heard by the PC either individually or jointly. No more than
three members shall inspect the subject land at any one time.
   (F)   Conflict of interest. During presentation and discussion of the
subject petition, a member who has a conflict of interest shall not sit as a
member of the PC, nor vote on the particular petition; however they may
participate in the discussion as a member of the public. A member of the PC
shall have a conflict of interest with regard to a petition if:
      (1)   They, or a family member, have financial interest in a subject
property or petition; or
      (2)   They own (individually or jointly) property close enough to a
subject petition to receive written notice.
   (G)   Record of hearing. The Town Planner shall manage files and maintain a
record of all petitions, hearings, and meetings of the PC. Copies of such
record of any hearing may be ordered by any party, and cost thereof shall be
paid by the party ordering such copy or copies in accordance with the adopted
fees.
   (H)   Attendance. PC members are expected to attend all meetings of the PC.
To ensure a quorum, members shall notify the Town Planner at their earliest
convenience if they are not able to attend a scheduled meeting either entirely
or in part. Members who fail to appear at meetings may be subject to removal
from the PC (see §
155.016(E)).
§ 155.022 FILING OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Prior code violation resolution. A petition or permit application
may not be filed for a property that has a previously documented and unresolved
code violation until the violation has been resolved. However, the Town Planner
may allow the filing of a petition application or permit application if it is
shown that it will directly contribute to the resolution of the violation.
      (2)   Adverse decision. A petition that receives an adverse decision from
the PC or Town Council may not be re-filed for a period of one year from the
date of the adverse decision. The Town Planner shall determine if a new
petition significantly differs from the previous petition that received the
adverse decision.
   (B)   Filing required prior to hearing.
      (1)   Petitions for consideration. All applications for consideration or
recommendation shall be filed in accordance with the proper forms adopted by
the PC, in the required numbers, and in the required form, and in accordance
with the adopted calendar of meeting and filing dates.
      (2)   Incomplete applications. If the Town Planner finds that the
application or submittal is insufficient, not in accordance with the proper
forms, or not in compliance with the adopted ordinances, said petition shall be
considered "incomplete" and shall not be accepted until such time as it becomes
complete.
   (C)   Attendance at hearing required. All applicants, petitioners, or
designated representatives, shall attend the public hearing in person to
present the application or petition, to answer questions from the PC, and to
make rebuttal or answer questions to remonstrators. Failure to meet this
requirement may result in the dismissal of the petition.
   (D)   Filing on PC forms. Any communication purporting to be an application
not on forms furnished by the PC or not containing the information called for
on said forms, shall be regarded as a mere notice of intention to file and
shall be of no force or effect until it is made on and in the form required.
All application forms, including the instructions therewith, are hereby
declared to be a part of these written rules and procedures.
   (E)   Filing fee. The petitioner shall pay the appropriate filing fee at the
time of filing their petition to cover expenses of processing the petition. The
amount of fees shall be in accordance with the fee schedule as adopted by the
Town Council.
§ 155.023 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Notice requirements. Notice of petitions or cases to be heard by the PC
shall be given to all interested parties or property owners in the following
manner:
   (A)   Notification by newspaper. The petitioner shall publish notice at
least ten days prior to the scheduled hearing in the Paoli News-Republican.
Proof of publication affidavit from the publisher shall be placed in the file
at least three days prior to the hearing. The cost of publication shall be
borne by the applicant.
   (B)   Notification by mail. The petitioner shall provide written notice at
least ten days prior to the scheduled hearing on the PC's prescribed form, by
certificate of mailing or certified mail. Notice shall be post marked at least
ten days prior to the hearing. Receipts and/or the affidavit of mailing shall
be submitted at least three days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Interested parties. For the purpose of written notice by certificate
of mailing, "interested parties" shall be defined as property owners within 600
feet and at least two parcels deep, in all directions from the property that is
the subject of the petition. Additionally, written notice shall be sent to
owners of the properties that are the subject of the petition, unless said
owners are the petitioner or have granted written consent for the petitioner in
the PC's prescribed form.
§ 155.024 DOCKETING OF CASES.
   (A)   Docketing of cases. Each case shall be filed in proper form, with the
required date, numbered serially, and placed on the docket by the Town Planner.
   (B)   Order of hearing cases. On the date set for hearing, cases shall come
before the PC either in the regular order of their consecutive numbers, or
grouped by similar petitions, as determined by the Town Planner in setting the
meeting agenda. Provided, however, cases re-docketed or continued from a
previous meeting shall be heard at the beginning of the meeting, before the
regularly docketed cases.
   (C)   Agenda limitations. In preparing the docket for each public hearing of
the PC the cases scheduled shall be limited to a reasonable number as
determined by the Town Planner.
   (D)   Meeting limitations. No petition shall be introduced for consideration
after 10:00 p.m. Agenda items remaining on the agenda shall be automatically
placed at the beginning of the agenda at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the PC.
§ 155.025 OFFICERS, PLAN COMMISSION RECORDS.
   (A)   Officers of the PC.
      (1)   President. A president shall be elected at the first regular
meeting of the PC in each calendar year. The president shall preside at all PC
meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the president or at other times
which the PC deems necessary.
      (2)   Vice president. A vice president shall be elected in the manner
prescribed for the president and shall have the authority to act as president
during the absence or disability of the duly elected president.
      (3)   Secretary. The Town Planner shall serve as the secretary of the PC.
A secretary shall be elected in the manner prescribed for the president who
shall maintain responsibility with the Town Planner, for all records and
correspondence for the PC. They shall cause minutes of the PC meeting to be
maintained in permanent volume, notice to be served of all public hearings and
notification to be served to all members of all meetings. The secretary,
subject to the direction of the President and the supervision of the Town
Planner or designee, shall record all important facts pertaining to each
meeting and hearing, all resolutions acted upon by the PC, and all votes of
members of the PC upon any resolution or upon the final determination of any
questions, indicating the names of any members absent or facility to vote.
      (4)   In the absence of both the president and vice-president, a
chairperson shall be selected from the legal voting quorum present at the
meeting.
      (5)   A recording secretary may be used for keeping and transcribing
minutes of regular or special meetings of the PC.
   (B)   Presiding officer. The presiding officer shall decide all points of
order of procedure in accordance with these rules, unless otherwise directed by
a majority of the quorum present.
   (C)   Recorded vote. In all cases heard by the PC, the vote shall be
recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
   (D)   Agenda preparation and distribution. The Town Planner shall be
responsible for the preparation and distribution of an agenda for each meeting
of the PC. Agendas shall be distributed prior to the hearing to members of the
PC, legal counsel, and the press. Other interested or affected parties may
request agendas.
   (E)   Open Door Law. PC shall comply with I.C. 5-14-1.5, the Open Door Law,
with respect to the use of agendas and requirements for meetings.
§ 155.026 AMENDMENTS OF RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Amendment of rules and procedures. Amendment to these rules and
procedures may be made by the PC only upon the affirmative vote of a majority
of the full membership of the PC.
   (B)   Proposed amendments. Any amendment to these rules or procedures must
be presented at least 14 days prior to voting on the amendment.
   (C)   Suspension of rules or procedures. The suspension of any rule or
procedure may be ordered at any meeting of the PC by a majority vote of the
quorum present.
§ 155.027 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT HISTORY OR RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The official record of these rules and procedures for the PC shall be
kept on file at the Paoli Town Hall, 110 N Gospel Street, Paoli, IN 47454.
   (B)   Adopted: April 8, 2015.
   (C)   Amended: Reserved.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 155.040 JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Board of Zoning Appeals authority. The authority to review, approve,
and grant the petitions listed in the Unified Development Ordinance shall rest
with the Paoli Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA). Where permitted, the BZA may, at
its discretion, delegate such authority to the Town Planner.
   (B)   The BZA shall have jurisdiction over all land within the established
municipal boundary of the Town of Paoli as defined by description or map in the
Orange County Recorder's Office.
   (C)   Town Planner. With regard to the BZA, the Town Planner, including any
staff members or other designee(s), shall have the principal responsibility for
the administration and enforcement of the Unified Development Ordinance. Their
duties shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Inspections. Conducting inspections of structures and properties to
determine compliance with the requirements of the Unified Development Ordinance
and all approvals granted by the BZA in the execution of its duties as
established by the Unified Development Ordinance and Indiana State Code.
      (2)   BZA applications. Receiving, processing docketing, and referring to
the BZA all appropriate applications.
      (3)   Clerical and technical assistance. Providing all such clerical and
technical assistance as may be required by the BZA in the execution of its
duties as established by the Unified Development Ordinance and Indiana State
Code.
   (D)   Town Planner's right of referral. The Town Planner may, at their
discretion, refer applicants for permits and petitions to the BZA for review
and approval.
   (E)   Roberts Rules of Order. Roberts Rules of Order are hereby incorporated
by reference and made a part of these rules and shall control on issues and
procedures not expressly provided for herein.
§ 155.041 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Membership of the BZA.
 
MEMBERSHIP OF THE BZA
Member Appointment       Initial Term                  Qualifications
       Town Council
1      President         March 3, 2015 January 1, 2018 A resident of the
       PC Member                                       BZA's jurisdiction
       Town Council                                    OR
2      President         March 3, 2015 January 1, 2016 a resident of Orange
       Non PC Member                                   County and owns
       Town Council                                    property within the
3      President         March 3, 2015 January 1, 2017 BZA's jurisdiction
       Non PC Member                                   AND
4      Town Council      March 3, 2015 January 1, 2019 may not hold an
       Non PC Member                                   elective or appointive
       PC                                              office for the town.
5      PC Citizen Member April 8, 2015 January 1, 2017
 
   (B)   Composition. The BZA shall consist of five members as prescribed by
I.C. 36-7-4-902(a) and Paoli Ordinance 2012-05. They shall serve the terms as
described in the same Paoli Ordinance.
   (C)   Qualifications for citizen members. The qualifications for citizen
members shall be as prescribed by I.C. 36-7-4-905.
   (D)   Certification. The clerk of the Town Council shall certify members
appointed by Town Council, the Town Council President shall certify their
appointments, and the PC shall certify its appointment. The certificates shall
be sent to and made a part of the records of the BZA.
   (E)   Removal of members. Members may be removed from the BZA by the
respective appointing authority prior to the end of their term for failure to
appear at three consecutive, regularly scheduled BZA meetings.
§ 155.042 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The following duties should be interpreted as activities that are
obligations of the BZA (I.C. 36-7-4-916, 918.1, 918.2):
      (1)   Prescribe the procedures for:
         (a)   Filing appeals;
         (b)   The application for variances, special exceptions, special uses,
contingent uses, and conditional uses;
         (c)   The giving of notice;
         (d)   The conduct of hearings; and
         (e)   The determination of whether a variance application is for a
variance of use or for a variance from the development standards (such as
height, bulk, or area).
      (2)   Approve or deny:
         (a)   Special exceptions;
         (b)   Special uses;
         (c)   Contingent uses;
         (d)   Conditional uses; and
         (e)   Variances of use.
      (3)   Hear and determine appeals from and review:
         (a)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Town Planner or staff member under the Unified Development Ordinance;
         (b)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative board or other body except the PC in relation to the enforcement
of the Unified Development Ordinance; or
         (c)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative board or other body except the PC in relation to the enforcement
of an ordinance requiring the procurement of an improvement location or
occupancy permit.
   (B)   Powers. The following powers should be interpreted as activities that
are optional and may be initiated by the BZA within their jurisdiction pursuant
to I.C. 36-7-4-916:
      (1)   The allocation of cases filed among the divisions of the Board of
Zoning Appeals; and
      (2)   The fixing of dates for hearings by the divisions.
   (C)   Commitments.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1015(a), as a condition to the:
         (a)   Special exception;
         (b)   Special use;
         (c)   Contingent use;
         (d)   Conditional use; or
         (e)   Variance.
      (2)   The BZA may require or allow the owner of a parcel of real property
to make a commitment to the Board concerning the use or development of that
parcel. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1015(c), the BZA hereby declares that the
criteria to be considered when an owner applies for the modification or
termination of a commitment made under these rules and procedures are the same
criteria that applied to the proposal when the Board originally recommended
adoption or granted approval, as the case may be.
§ 155.043 ACTIONS AND DECISIONS.
   (A)   Decisions rendered.
 
DECISIONS RENDERED
Application Type        Staff              BZA
Special Exception                          - Approve (with or without
Special/Conditional Use Review and make    conditions)
Use Variance            recommendations    - Disapprove
Variance
                        Review and provide - Approve (with or without
Appeals                 information        conditions)
                                           - Disapprove
 
   (B)   Quorum. A quorum is a majority of the full membership of the BZA.
   (C)   Official action. Action of the BZA is official when concurred by a
majority of the full membership.
   (D)   Tie votes. When a vote of the BZA results in a tie, the matter may be
resolved by:
      (1)   A new motion to reconsider the matter and followed by a re-vote; or
      (2)   Re-docketing the matter for the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the BZA.
   (E)   Indecisive vote. In any case where a vote of the BZA does not result
in official action, the petition shall be automatically re-docketed for the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the BZA.
   (F)   Continuance. A continuance may be requested for sufficient cause by
the petitioner, by an interested party, or a member of the BZA. It shall be
within the discretion of the BZA to grant or deny any request for continuance.
Re-notification shall not be required if a petition is continued at a properly
noticed public hearing/meeting to a specified future hearing/meeting date of
the BZA.
      (1)   Continuance request by the petitioner. A request for continuance by
the petitioner may be filed in writing prior to the BZA's hearing/meeting or
made orally at the beginning of the BZA meeting when the agenda is considered.
However, the petitioner shall be prepared to move forward with their petition
until the continuance request is granted by the BZA.
      (2)   Continuance request by an interested party. A request for
continuance by an interested party may be filed in writing prior to the BZA's
hearing/meeting or made orally at the beginning of the BZA meeting when the
agenda is considered. The interested party shall be prepared for the petition
to move forward until the continuance request is granted by the BZA. For
purposes of a public hearing, an "interested party" is any individual whose
right to use, acquire, or enjoy property is or may be affected by action taken
by the BZA.
      (3)   Continuance request by a member of the BZA. A member of the BZA may
make a motion of continuance for consideration by the BZA.
      (4)   Meeting limitations. An automatic continuance that occurs because
of meeting time limitations does not count as a requested continuance described
in this section.
   (G)   Withdrawal of petitions.
      (1)   No petition may be withdrawn by the petitioner after a vote has
been ordered by the chairman or chairperson presiding at the meeting.
      (2)   A petition which has been withdrawn by the petitioner shall not
again be placed on the docket for consideration by the BZA within a period of
90 days from the date of withdrawal, except upon a motion by a BZA member to
permit re-docketing and approved by the unanimous vote of the quorum present.
   (H)   Dismissal. The BZA may dismiss a case for want of prosecution or for
lack of jurisdiction.
§ 155.044 MEETING SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Application schedule. The Town Planner shall develop and maintain an
annual calendar of meetings and filing dates for the Board of Zoning Appeals.
The existence of this calendar shall not be interpreted as prohibiting special
meetings of the BZA.
   (B)   Coordination of calendars. The calendar of the BZA shall be
coordinated to ensure the efficient processing of applications.
   (C)   Compliance with Indiana State Code. All meeting and filing dates shall
be based on the requirements of the Unified Development Ordinance and the laws
of the State of Indiana.
   (D)   Approval of dates. The calendar of meetings and filing dates shall be
prepared by the Town Planner and approved by the BZA.
   (E)   Maintenance. The calendar of meeting and filing dates shall be
reviewed and updated annually by the Town Planner and posted in the Paoli Town
Hall and/or on the town's website.
§ 155.045 PETITION HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Order of business. The BZA shall follow the following order of
business:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Pledge of allegiance;
      (3)   Agenda consideration (and consideration of requested continuances);
      (4)   Minutes;
      (5)   Public comment for items not on the agenda;
      (6)   Old business:
         (a)   Public hearings on petitions;
         (b)   Other petitions for consideration; and
         (c)   Other business.
      (7)   New business:
         (a)   Public hearings on petitions;
         (b)   Other petitions for consideration; and
         (c)   Other business.
      (8)   New business from the floor;
      (9)   Announcements;
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Procedure for public comment for items not on the agenda. The PC shall
allot a total of five minutes for public comment for items not on the agenda.
Each individual wishing to speak shall be allowed three minutes.
   (C)   Procedure for petition consideration. Each petition before the BZA
shall generally be allotted a total of 25 minutes for the presentation of
evidence, comments, and questions at the public hearing. The chairman (or
presiding member) shall have the authority to extend the time periods specified
below where appropriate, unless otherwise directed by a majority of the quorum
present.
      (1)   Introduction. The chairman shall introduce the petition and open it
for discussion.
      (2)   Presentation. The petitioner shall have a total of 20 minutes for
the presentation of their petition.
         (a)   Staff and public official's report. The Town Planner shall
present the staff and public official's report for the petition.
         (b)   Public discussion.
            1.   Discussion of support. Persons in support of the petition
shall have a total of ten minutes to present evidence, comments, and questions
relevant to the matter being considered.
            2.   Discussion of neutrality. Persons neutral on the petition
shall have a total of ten minutes to present evidence, comments, and questions
relevant to the matter being considered.
            3.   Discussion of opposition. Persons in opposition of the
petition shall have a total of ten minutes to present evidence, comments, and
questions relevant to the matter being considered.
            4.   Closing remarks by petitioner. The petitioner shall have a
total of five minutes for closing remarks as well as responding to the
presentation of evidence, comments, and questions raised during the public
discussion.
      (3)   Discussion of BZA. The chairman shall close the public discussion
portion of the hearing and call for questions and comments from members of the
BZA.
      (4)   Call for vote.
         (a)   The chairman shall call for a motion and a second on the case
being heard.
         (b)   The chairman shall call for discussion.
         (c)   The chairman shall do a role call for a vote on the motion. The
call for the member casting the first vote shall rotate after each petition.
   (D)   Meeting limitations. No petition shall be introduced for consideration
after 10:00 p.m. Agenda items remaining on the agenda shall be automatically
placed at the beginning of the agenda at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the BZA.
§ 155.046 GENERAL MEETING CONDUCT AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Orderly conduct. Every person appearing before the BZA shall abide by
the order and direction of the chairman. Discourteous, disorderly, or
contemptuous conduct shall be regarded as a breach of the privileges and shall
be dealt with as the chairman deems fair and proper.
   (B)   Appearance at meetings. Any party may appear in person or by
representative (person, agent, attorney, etc) at BZA meetings. A representative
may testify to the facts that he has particular knowledge of that relate to the
issues of the petition. In so testifying, the representative shall be subject
to cross-examination and questions.
   (C)   Contacting members. No person (including applicants, remonstrators,
and others) may communicate with any member of the BZA before a hearing with
the intent to influence the member's action on a matter pending before the BZA.
   (D)   Basis for decisions. Actions of the BZA shall be based upon:
      (1)   Information made part of the permanent record;
      (2)   The information submitted at the meeting and made part of the
permanent record;
      (3)   The testimony received at the meeting and made part of the
permanent record;
      (4)   The applicable ordinances that are in effect and relevant to the
petition (i.e. Unified Development Ordinance).
   (E)   Site visit. Members shall have the right to inspect land involved in
any petition to be heard by the BZA either individually or jointly. No more
than two members shall inspect the subject land at any one time.
   (F)   Conflict of interest. During presentation and discussion of the
subject petition, a member who has a conflict of interest shall not sit as a
member of the BZA nor vote on the particular petition, however they may
participate in the discussion as a member of the public. A member of the BZA
shall have a conflict of interest with regard to a petition if:
      (1)   They, or a family member, have financial interest in a subject
property or petition; or
      (2)   They own (individually or jointly) property close enough to a
subject petition to receive written notice.
   (G)   Record of hearing. The Town Planner shall manage files and maintain a
record of all petitions, hearings, and meetings of the BZA. Copies of such
record of any hearing may be ordered by any party, and cost thereof shall be
paid by the party ordering such copy or copies in accordance with the adopted
fees.
   (H)   Attendance. BZA members are expected to attend all meetings of the
BZA. To ensure a quorum, members shall notify the Town Planner at their
earliest convenience if they are not able to attend a scheduled meeting either
entirely or in part. Members who fail to appear at meetings may be subject to
removal from the BZA (see § 155.041(E): Removal of Members).
§ 155.047 FILING OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Prior code violation resolution. A petition or permit application
may not be filed for a property that has a previously documented and unresolved
code violation until the violation has been resolved. However, the Town Planner
may allow the filing of a petition application or permit application if it is
shown that it will directly contribute to the resolution of the violation.
      (2)   Adverse decision. A petition that receives an adverse decision from
the BZA may not be re-filed for a period of one year from the date of the
adverse decision. The Town Planner shall determine if a new petition
significantly differs from the previous petition that received the adverse
decision.
   (B)   Filing required prior to hearing.
      (1)   Petitions for consideration. All applications for consideration or
recommendation shall be filed in accordance with the proper forms adopted by
the BZA, in the required numbers, and in the required form, and in accordance
with the adopted calendar of meeting and filing dates.
      (2)   Incomplete applications. If the Town Planner finds that the
application or submittal is insufficient, not in accordance with the proper
forms, or not in compliance with the adopted ordinances, said petition shall be
considered "incomplete" and shall not be accepted until such time as it becomes
complete.
   (C)   Attendance at hearing required. All applicants, petitioners, or
designated representatives, shall attend the public hearing in person to
present the application or petition, to answer questions from the BZA, and to
make rebuttal or answer questions to remonstrators. Failure to meet this
requirement may result in the dismissal of the petition.
   (D)   Filing on BZA forms. Any communication purporting to be an application
not on forms furnished by the BZA or not containing the information called for
on said forms, shall be regarded as a mere notice of intention to file and
shall be of no force or effect until it is made on and in the form required.
All application forms, including the instructions therewith, are hereby
declared to be a part of these written rules and procedures.
   (E)   Filing fee. The petitioner shall pay the appropriate filing fee at the
time of filing their petition to cover expenses of processing the petition. The
amount of fees shall be in accordance with the fee schedule as adopted by the
Town Council.
§ 155.048 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Notice requirements. Notice of petitions or cases to be heard by the BZA
shall be given to all interested parties or property owners in the following
manner:
   (A)   Notification by newspaper. The petitioner shall publish notice at
least ten days prior to the scheduled hearing in Paoli News-Republican. Proof
of publication affidavit from the publisher shall be placed in the file at
least three days prior to the hearing. The cost of publication shall be borne
by the applicant.
   (B)   Notification by mail. The petitioner shall provide written notice at
least ten days prior to the scheduled hearing on the BZA's prescribed form, by
certificate of mailing or certified mail. Notice shall be post marked at least
ten days prior to the hearing. Receipts and/or the affidavit of mailing shall
be submitted at least three days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Interested parties. For the purpose of written notice by certificate
of mailing, INTERESTED PARTIES shall be defined as property owners within 200
feet of the property that is the subject of the petition. If there are no
property owners within 200 feet, the petitioner must extend the search an
additional 400 feet (but in no event further) to reach property owners.
(Am. Res. 2024-04, passed 3-5-24)
§ 155.049 DOCKETING OF CASES.
   (A)   Docketing of cases. Each case shall be filed in proper form, with the
required date, numbered serially, and placed on the docket by the Town Planner.
   (B)   Order of hearing cases. On the date set for hearing, cases shall come
before the BZA either in the regular order of their consecutive numbers, or
grouped by similar petitions, as determined by the Town Planner in setting the
meeting agenda. Provided, however, cases re-docketed or continued from a
previous meeting shall be heard at the beginning of the meeting, before the
regularly docketed cases.
   (C)   Agenda limitations. In preparing the docket for each public hearing of
the BZA the cases scheduled shall be limited to a reasonable number as
determined by the Town Planner.
   (D)   Meeting limitations. No petition shall be introduced for consideration
after 10:00 p.m. Agenda items remaining on the agenda shall be automatically
placed at the beginning of the agenda at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the BZA.
§ 155.050 OFFICERS, BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS RECORDS.
   (A)   Officers of the BZA.
      (1)   Chairman. A chairman shall be elected at the first regular meeting
of the BZA in each calendar year. The chairman shall preside at all BZA
meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman or at other times
which the BZA deems necessary.
      (2)   Vice chairman. A vice chairman shall be elected in the manner
prescribed for the chairman and shall have the authority to act as chairman
during the absence or disability of the duly elected chairman.
      (3)   Secretary. The Town Planner shall serve as the secretary of the
BZA. A secretary shall be elected in the manner prescribed for the chairman who
shall maintain responsibility with the Town Planner, for all records and
correspondence for the BZA. They shall cause minutes of the BZA meeting to be
maintained in permanent volume, notice to be served of all public hearings and
notification to be served to all members of all meetings. The secretary,
subject to the direction of the chairman and the supervision of the Town
Planner or designee, shall record all important facts pertaining to each
meeting and hearing, all resolutions acted upon by the BZA, and all votes of
members of the BZA upon any resolution or upon the final determination of any
questions, indicating the names of any members absent or facility to vote.
      (4)   In the absence of both the chairman and vice chairman, a
chairperson shall be selected from the legal voting quorum present at the
meeting.
      (5)   A recording secretary may be used for keeping and transcribing
minutes of regular or special meetings of the BZA.
   (B)   Presiding officer. The presiding officer shall decide all points of
order of procedure in accordance with these rules, unless otherwise directed by
a majority of the quorum present.
   (C)   Recorded vote. In all cases heard by the BZA, the vote shall be
recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
   (D)   Agenda preparation and distribution. The Town Planner shall be
responsible for the preparation and distribution of an agenda for each meeting
of the BZA. Agendas shall be distributed prior to the hearing to members of the
BZA, legal counsel, and the press. Other interested or affected parties may
request agendas.
   (E)   Open door law. BZA shall comply with I.C. 5-14-1.5, the Open Door Law,
with respect to the use of agendas and requirements for meetings.
§ 155.051 AMENDMENTS OF RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Amendment of rules and procedures. Amendment to these rules and
procedures may be made by the BZA only upon the affirmative vote of a majority
of the full membership of the BZA.
   (B)   Proposed amendments. Any amendment to these rules or procedures must
be presented at least 14 days prior to voting on the amendment.
   (C)   Suspension of rules or procedures. The suspension of any rule or
procedure may be ordered at any meeting of the BZA by a majority vote of the
quorum present.
§ 155.052 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT HISTORY FOR RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The official record of these rules and procedures for the BZA shall be
kept on file at the Paoli Town Hall, 110 N Gospel Street, Paoli, IN 47454.
   (B)   Adopted: April 8, 2015.
   (C)   Amended: Reserved.
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.065 GENERAL.
   General provisions; the jurisdiction area is hereby classified and divided
into districts.
   (A)   Agriculture (AG);
   (B)   Single-Family Residential (SF);
   (C)   Multi-Family Residential (MF);
   (D)   Mixed-Use Residential (MR);
   (E)   Highway Commercial (HC);
   (F)   General Commercial (GC);
   (G)   Town Square (TWN);
   (H)   General Industrial (GI);
   (I)   Light Industrial (LI);
   (J)   Buffer (BU); and
   (K)   Floodplain Overlay (FP).
§ 155.066 USES NOT LISTED.
   For uses not listed, the Administrator shall attempt to determine if the
requested use is similar to a listed use in the subject zoning district. If the
Administrator determines that the use is not similar to a listed use it is
assumed that the use is not permitted in the subject district. In case of
uncertainty, the Administrator may refer the request for clarification or
classification to the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) for consideration in
accordance with the provisions of uses not listed under the duties of the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
§ 155.067 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot width. Lot width is measured at the building line.
   (B)   Minimum front yard setback. Minimum front yard setback is as shown or
70 feet from the center of the road, whichever is greater (not applicable to
flag lots).
   (C)   Minimum side yard setback. In all districts, a side yard adjoining a
street which does not face the primary structure is 25 feet or 70 feet from the
centerline of the road, whichever is greater. The minimum side yard setback is
as shown or the width of the applicable bufferyard, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard setback. Minimum rear yard setback is as shown or
the width of the applicable bufferyard, whichever is greater.
§ 155.068 AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to maintain the rural and
scenic qualities of the existing rural areas by preserving farm land and
significant open lands. Non-residential development in this district requires
development plan approval and residential development requires subdivision
approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Civic, social, or religious organizations;
         (c)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (d)   Elementary and secondary schools;
         (e)   Farm;
         (f)   Farm seasonal worker housing;
         (g)   Hay, grain, and feed stores;
         (h)   Libraries and information centers;
         (i)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (j)    Plant nursery;
         (k)   Seasonal hunting and fishing lodge;
         (l)   Temporary manufactured home; and
         (m)   Warehouse/self-storage facilities.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Anhydrous ammonia storage and distribution;
         (b)   Animal day care facility;
         (c)   Bed and breakfast;
         (d)   Cemetery or crematory;
         (e)   Commercial facility for breeding non-farm fowl;
         (f)   Compost/digester facility;
         (g)   Construction/demolition site;
         (h)   Day care center;
         (i)   Dwelling - single-family;
         (j)   Fairgrounds;
         (k)   Incinerator;
         (l)   Kennel;
         (m)   Landscape contractor;
         (n)   Mineral extraction;
         (o)   Minor residential subdivision;
         (p)   Outdoor recreation facility;
         (q)   Outdoor shooting range, public or private;
         (r)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (s)   Public camp ground or recreational vehicle park;
         (t)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (u)   Resource recovery facility;
         (v)   Roadside produce stand;
         (w)   Sale barn for livestock;
         (x)   Sanitary landfill, privately owned;
         (y)   Sanitary landfill, publicly owned;
         (z)   Slaughter house;
         (aa)   Stable, private;
         (bb)   Stable, public;
         (cc)   Studio business;
         (dd)   Theater, outdoor;
         (ee)   Transfer station;
         (ff)   Veterinary animal hospital;
         (gg)   Warehouse (grain storage); and
         (hh)   Wholesale produce terminal.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: Agriculture  Single-Family Residential Non-Residential
(AG)
Development Standards: Agriculture (AG)  Single-Family     Non-Residential
                                         Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings              35 feet           35 feet
Minimum ground floor One-story           700 sq. ft.
area                 Multi-story         900 sq. ft.
Minimum primary structure width          18 ft.
Minimum distance between dwelling units  140 ft.
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width                        200 ft.
Minimum road frontage                    50 ft.            45 ft.
                                         15,000 sq. ft. on
Minimum lot area                         sewer, 1 acre on
                                         septic
Minimum front yard setback               50 ft.            20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback                40 ft.            10 ft.
Minimum rear yard    Primary Structure   40 ft.            10 ft.
setback              Accessory Structure 5 ft.             10 ft.
Maximum density (units/acre)             0.50
Minimum open space                       50%               15%
Maximum lot coverage                     50%               70%
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer required       No                Yes
 
§ 155.069 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide areas for suburban
residential development that is contiguous to the urban centers of the town.
Single-family and two-family development in this district typically ranges from
one home per acre. Multi-family development in this district is limited, but
would allow up to 20 units per acre on public water and public sewer with
development plan approval. Single-family residential development in this
district requires subdivision approval and all other development require
development plan approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Dwelling - single-family;
         (c)   Dwelling - two-family;
         (d)   Elementary and secondary schools;
         (e)   Libraries and information centers;
         (f)   Major residential subdivision;
         (g)   Mass transit station;
         (h)   Minor residential subdivision;
         (i)   Public golf course;
         (j)   Temporary manufactured home; and
         (k)   Transmission lines for utilities.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast;
         (b)   Colleges and universities;
         (c)   Composting facility;
         (d)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (e)   Dwelling - multi-family;
         (f)   Group home;
         (g)   Golf and country clubs;
         (h)   Junior colleges and technical institutes;
         (i)   Long-term permitted clean fill disposal site;
         (j)   Long-term permitted clean fill processing site;
         (k)   Mineral extraction;
         (l)   Manufactured home park;
         (m)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (n)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (o)   Public water wells, water stations, filtration plants;
         (p)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (q)   Stable, private;
         (r)   Studio business;
         (s)   Telephone exchange, or public utility station;
         (t)   Temporary clean fill disposal site;
         (u)   Temporary clean fill land reclamation site;
         (v)   Temporary clean fill processing site;
         (w)   Wireless communication facility;
         (x)   Farm; and
         (y)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping service.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: Single-Family
Single-Family          Residential   Multi-Family Residential Non- Residential
Residential (SF)
Development Standards: Single-    Single-Family  Multi-Family Non- Residential
Family Residential (SF)           Residential    Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings       35 ft.         35 ft.       35 ft.
Minimum ground  One-story         700 sq. ft.    700 sq. ft.
floor area      Multi-story       900 sq. ft.    400 sq. ft.
Minimum primary structure width   18 ft.
Minimum distance between dwelling 15 ft.
units
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width                 100 ft.
Minimum road frontage             50 ft.                      45 ft.
Minimum lot area                  15,000 sq. ft. 1 acre
Maximum lot area per development                 3 acres
Minimum front yard setback        30 ft.         25 ft.       20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback         10 ft.         10 ft.       10 ft.
Minimum rear    Primary structure 30 ft.         20 ft.       10 ft.
yard setback    Accessory         5 ft.          20 ft.       10 ft.
                structure
Maximum density (units/acre)      3              20.0
Minimum open    40%               30%            15%
space
Maximum lot     50%               50%            70%
coverage
Utility Standards
Municipal water
and sewer       Yes               Yes            Yes
required
 
(Am. Res. 2017-04, passed 8-1-17; Am. Res. 2019-01, passed 2-5-19; Am. Res.
2023-03, passed 6-6-23; Am. Res. 2024-04, passed 3-5-24)
§ 155.070 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is for high-density multi-family
development. Development in this district is typically at a density of up to 20
dwelling units per acre. Development in this district requires connection to
public water and public sewers and development plan approval. Single-family
development in this district is limited, but would allow up to three units per
acre with public water and public sewer. Single-family residential development
in this district requires subdivision approval and all other development
requires development plan approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Convalescent homes;
         (c)   Dwelling - two-family;
         (d)   Dwelling - multi-family;
         (e)    Elementary and secondary schools;
         (f)   Libraries and information centers;
         (g)   Life care facility;
         (h)   Mass transit station;
         (i)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (j)   Nursing home;
         (k)   Orphanage;
         (l)   Public golf course;
         (m)   Temporary manufactured home; and
         (n)   Transmission lines for utilities.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast;
         (b)   Colleges and universities;
         (c)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (d)   Day care center;
         (e)   Dwelling - single-family;
         (f)   Fraternity, sorority or student housing;
         (g)   Golf and country clubs;
         (h)   Group home;
         (i)   Hospital;
         (j)   Junior colleges and technical institutes;
         (k)   Manufactured home park;
         (l)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (m)   Public water wells, water stations, filtration plants;
         (n)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (o)   Stable, private;
         (p)    Studio business;
         (q)   Telephone exchange, or public utility station;
         (r)   Wireless communication facility; and
         (s)   Farm.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards:   Single-Family Multi-Family
Multi-Family Residential Residential   Residential  Non- Residential
(MF)
Development Standards: Multi-    Single-Family  Multi-Family Non- Residential
Family Residential (MF)          Residential    Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings      35 ft.         35 ft.       35 ft.
Minimum ground One-story         700 sq. ft.    700 sq. ft.
floor area     Multi-story       900 sq. ft.    400 sq. ft.
Minimum primary structure width  18 ft.
Minimum distance between         15 ft.
dwelling units
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width                100 ft.
Minimum road frontage            50 ft.                      45 ft.
Minimum lot area                 15,000 sq. ft. 1 acre
Maximum lot area
Minimum front yard setback       50 ft.         25 ft.       20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback        10 ft.         10 ft.       10 ft.
Minimum rear   Primary structure 30 ft.         20 ft.       10 ft.
yard setback   Accessory         5 ft.          20 ft.       10 ft.
               structure
Maximum density (units/acre)     3              20.0
Minimum open space               40%            30%          15%
Maximum lot coverage             50%            70%          70%
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer        Yes            Yes          Yes
required
 
(Am. Res. 2017-04, passed 8-1-17)
§ 155.071 MIXED-USE RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is established to allow commercial office use
while protecting the residential fabric of the area. It is designed to promote
the use of lots or reuse of single-family homes as commercial or retail uses
that do not attract high volume of traffic such as general commercial.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping service;
         (b)   Apparel shop, shoes, custom tailoring;
         (c)   Antique store;
         (d)   Art gallery art and music schools;
         (e)   Attorney services;
         (f)   Barber shop, beauty shop;
         (g)   Bed and breakfast;
         (h)   Book and stationary story;
         (i)   Candy, nut and confectionary;
         (j)   Church or temple;
         (k)   Counselor-at-law;
         (l)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (m)   Dance studio;
         (n)   Day care center;
         (o)   Dressmaking;
         (p)   Dwelling - single-family;
         (q)   Elementary and secondary schools;
         (r)   Florist, furriers;
         (s)   Libraries and information centers;
         (t)   Mass transit station;
         (u)   Minor residential subdivision;
         (v)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (w)   Photographic studio;
         (x)   Plant nursery;
         (y)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (z)   Professional office;
         (aa)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (bb)   Real estate services;
         (cc)   Studio business;
         (dd)    Transmission lines for utilities;
         (ee)   Veterinary animal hospital;
         (ff)   Dwelling - two-family;
         (gg)   Hotel or motel;
         (hh)   Restaurants;
         (ii)   Tobacco stores; and
         (jj)   Household appliances, furniture.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: Single-Family
Mixed-Use Residential  Residential   Multi-Family Residential Non- Residential
(MR)
Development Standards: Mixed-Use Single-Family  Multi-Family Non- Residential
Residential (MR)                 Residential    Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings      35 ft.         35 ft.       35 ft.
Minimum ground One-story         700 sq. ft.    700 sq. ft.
floor area     Multi-story       900 sq. ft.    400 sq. ft.
Minimum primary structure width  18 ft.
Minimum distance between
dwelling units
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width                100 ft.
Minimum road frontage            50 ft.                      45 ft.
Minimum lot area                 15,000 sq. ft. 1 acre
Maximum lot area                                3 acres
Minimum front yard setback       30 ft.         25 ft.       20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback        10 ft.         10 ft.       10 ft.
Minimum rear   Primary structure 30 ft.         20 ft.       10 ft.
yard setback   Accessory         5 ft.          20 ft.       10 ft.
               structure
Maximum density (units/acre)     3              20.0
Minimum open space               40%            30%          15%
Maximum lot coverage             50%            50%          70%
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer        Yes            Yes          Yes
required
 
(Am. Res. 2023-02, passed 4-24-23)
§ 155.072 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is established to include areas adjacent to
highway and major roadways and is designed to serve the needs of the public
traveling on these thoroughfares. Development in this district requires
connection to public water and public sewers and development plan approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping service;
         (b)   Advertising agencies;
         (c)   Agricultural credit institutions;
         (d)   Animal day care facility;
         (e)   Antique store;
         (f)   Apparel shop, shoes, custom tailoring;
         (g)   Art and music schools;
         (h)   Attorney services;
         (i)   Auto license bureaus;
         (j)   Automobile or motorcycle sales;
         (k)   Automobile parts supply;
         (l)   Automobile repair, service station;
         (m)   Bait sales;
         (n)   Banks and branch banks;
         (o)   Barber shop, beauty shop;
         (p)   Bed and breakfast;
         (q)   Bicycle shops;
         (r)   Billiard and pool establishments;
         (s)   Blood banks;
         (t)   Blueprinting and photocopying;
         (u)   Boat sales;
         (v)   Bond and mortgage company;
         (w)   Book and stationary store;
         (x)   Bowling alleys;
         (y)   Business associations;
         (z)   Cafeteria, restaurant;
         (aa)    Camera and photographic supply;
         (bb)   Candy, nut and confectionary;
         (cc)   Carry out restaurant;
         (dd)   Charitable institutions;
         (ee)   China, glassware, metalware;
         (ff)   Church or temple;
         (gg)   Civic, social, or religious organizations;
         (hh)   Clothing rental;
         (ii)   Coin-operated laundry and dry-cleaning;
         (jj)   Collection agencies;
         (kk)   Commercial testing laboratories;
         (ll)   Counselor-at-law;
         (mm)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (nn)   Dance halls, studios and schools;
         (oo)   Department store;
         (pp)   Detective agencies and protective services;
         (qq)   Diaper service;
         (rr)   Dinner theater;
         (ss)   Disinfecting and exterminating services;
         (tt)   Drapery, curtain and upholstery;
         (uu)   Dressmaking;
         (vv)   Drug store;
         (ww)   Electrical repair shop;
         (xx)   Electrical supply store ;
         (yy)   Elementary and secondary schools;
         (zz)   Engineering and architectural service;
         (aaa)   Florists, furriers;
         (bbb)   Food processing;
         (ccc)   Fraternity, sorority or student housing;
         (ddd)   Fruits and vegetables;
         (eee)   Fuel dealers;
         (fff)   Gift, novelty and souvenir shops;
         (ggg)   Grocery, bakery, meat and fish;
         (hhh)   Group residential facility;
         (iii)   Hardware or variety store;
         (jjj)   Hay, grain, and feed stores;
         (kkk)   Hobby, toy and game shops;
         (lll)   Household appliances, furniture;
         (mmm)   Indoor recreation facility;
         (nnn)   Insurance agents, brokers and service;
         (ooo)   Jewelry store;
         (ppp)   Liquor store;
         (qqq)   Lodge or private club;
         (rrr)   Lumber and building materials dealer;
         (sss)   Manufactured home, travel trailer, camper sales and service;
         (ttt)   Medical and dental laboratories;
         (uuu)   Medical office;
         (vvv)   Monument sales;
         (www)   Mortuary;
         (xxx)   Motion picture theater;
         (yyy)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (zzz)   Museum and art gallery;
         (aaaa)   Music and video store;
         (bbbb)   News dealers;
         (cccc)   Newspaper publishing;
         (dddd)   Night club;
         (eeee)   Nursing home;
         (ffff)   Paint, glass and wallpaper store;
         (gggg)   Parking garage;
         (hhhh)   Passenger car rental;
         (iiii)   Pet shops;
         (jjjj)   Photographic studio;
         (kkkk)   Plant nursery;
         (llll)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning dealer;
         (mmmm)   Private employment agencies;
         (nnnn)   Professional office;
         (oooo)   Real estate service;
         (pppp)   Reducing and health salons;
         (qqqq)   Reupholster and furniture repair;
         (rrrr)   Shoe repair;
         (ssss)   Skating;
         (tttt)   Sporting goods;
         (uuuu)   Stenographic service;
         (vvvv)   Stock brokers and dealers;
         (wwww)   Studio business;
         (xxxx)   Tailoring and pressing shops;
         (yyyy)   Tavern;
         (zzzz)   Temporary help supply services;
         (aaaaa)   Temporary manufactured home;
         (bbbbb)   Tire, battery and accessory dealers;
         (ccccc)   Tobacco stores;
         (ddddd)   Trade or business schools;
         (eeeee)   Truck sales, rental, leasing, repair;
         (fffff)   Watch, clock and jewelry repair;
         (ggggg)   Wholesale business;
         (hhhhh)   Warehouse/self-storage facilities;
         (iiiii)   Fire training facility; and
         (jjjjj)   Police, postal, or fire station.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Auction sales yard (excluding livestock);
         (b)   Automatic car wash;
         (c)   Automobile body shop and painting;
         (d)   Clinic;
         (e)   Day care center;
         (f)   Drive-in restaurant;
         (g)   Golf driving range and miniature golf course;
         (h)   Hotel or motel;
         (i)   Kennel;
         (j)   Linen supply;
         (k)   Parking lot;
         (l)   Penal or correctional institutions;
         (m)    Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (n)   Shopping center;
         (o)   Stable, public;
         (p)   Theater, outdoor;
         (q)   Truck service center;
         (r)   Veterinary animal hospital;
         (s)   Warehouse (general);
         (t)   Warehouse (grain storage);
         (u)   Wholesale produce terminal;
         (v)   Dwelling, single- or two-family; and
         (w)   Farm.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: Highway Commercial (HC) Non-Residential
Development Standards: Highway Commercial (HC) Non-Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings                    35 ft.
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width
Minimum road frontage                          45 ft.
Minimum lot area
Minimum front yard setback                     20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback                      10 ft.
Minimum rear yard setback Primary structure    10 ft.
                          Accessory structure  10 ft.
Minimum open space                             15%
Maximum lot coverage                           70%
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer required             Yes
 
(Am. Res. 2017-04, passed 8-1-17; Am. Res. 2023-02, passed 4-24-23)
§ 155.073 GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow for most types of
retail, commercial, service, entertainment, and dining establishments.
Development in this district requires connection to public water and public
sewer as well as development plan approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping service;
         (b)   Advertising agencies;
         (c)   Agricultural credit institutions;
         (d)   Animal day care facility;
         (e)   Antique store;
         (f)   Apparel shop, shoes, custom tailoring;
         (g)   Art and music schools;
         (h)   Attorney services;
         (i)   Auto license bureaus;
         (j)   Automobile or motorcycle sales;
         (k)   Automobile parts supply;
         (l)   Automobile repair, service station;
         (m)   Bait sales;
         (n)   Banks and branch banks;
         (o)   Barber shop, beauty shop;
         (p)   Bed and breakfast;
         (q)   Bicycle shops;
         (r)   Billiard and pool establishments;
         (s)   Blood banks;
         (t)   Blueprinting and photocopying;
         (u)   Boat sales;
         (v)   Bond and mortgage company;
         (w)   Book and stationary store;
         (x)   Bowling alleys;
         (y)   Business associations;
         (z)   Cafeteria, restaurant;
         (aa)   Camera and photographic supply;
         (bb)    Candy, nut and confectionary;
         (cc)   Carry out restaurant;
         (dd)   Cemetery or crematory;
         (ee)   Charitable institutions;
         (ff)   China, glassware, metalware;
         (gg)   Church or temple;
         (hh)   Civic, social, or religious organizations;
         (ii)   Clothing rental;
         (jj)   Coin-operated laundry and dry-cleaning;
         (kk)   Collection agencies;
         (ll)   Commercial testing laboratories;
         (mm)   Counselor-at-law;
         (nn)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (oo)   Dance halls, studios and schools;
         (pp)   Department store;
         (qq)   Detective agencies and protective services;
         (rr)   Diaper service;
         (ss)   Dinner theater;
         (tt)   Disinfecting and exterminating services;
         (uu)   Drapery, curtain and upholstery;
         (vv)   Dressmaking;
         (ww)   Drug store;
         (xx)   Electrical repair shop;
         (yy)   Electrical supply store;
         (zz)   Elementary and secondary schools;
         (aaa)   Engineering and architectural service;
         (bbb)   Florists, furriers;
         (ccc)   Food processing;
         (ddd)   Fraternity, sorority or student housing;
         (eee)   Fruits and vegetables;
         (fff)   Fuel dealers;
         (ggg)   Gift, novelty and souvenir shops;
         (hhh)   Grocery, bakery, meat and fish;
         (iii)   Group residential facility;
         (jjj)   Hardware or variety store;
         (kkk)   Hay, grain, and feed stores;
         (lll)   Hobby, toy and game shops;
         (mmm)   Household appliances, furniture;
         (nnn)   Indoor recreation facility;
         (ooo)   Insurance agents, brokers and service;
         (ppp)   Jewelry store;
         (qqq)   Liquor store;
         (rrr)   Lodge or private club;
         (sss)   Lumber and building materials dealer;
         (ttt)   Manufactured home, travel trailer, camper sales and service;
         (uuu)   Medical and dental laboratories;
         (vvv)   Medical office;
         (www)   Minor residential subdivision;
         (xxx)   Monument sales;
         (yyy)   Mortuary;
         (zzz)   Motion picture theater;
         (aaaa)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (bbbb)   Museum and art gallery;
         (cccc)   Music and video store;
         (dddd)   News dealers;
         (eeee)   Newspaper publishing;
         (ffff)   Night club;
         (gggg)   Nursing home;
         (hhhh)   Paint, glass and wallpaper store;
         (iiii)   Parking garage;
         (jjjj)   Passenger car rental;
         (kkkk)   Pet shops;
         (llll)   Photographic studio;
         (mmmm)   Plant nursery;
         (nnnn)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning dealer;
         (oooo)   Private employment agencies;
         (pppp)   Professional office;
         (qqqq)   Real estate service;
         (rrrr)   Reducing and health salons;
         (ssss)   Reupholster and furniture repair;
         (tttt)   Shoe repair;
         (uuuu)   Skating;
         (vvvv)   Sporting goods;
         (wwww)   Stenographic service;
         (xxxx)   Stock brokers and dealers;
         (yyyy)   Studio business;
         (zzzz)   Tailoring and pressing shops;
         (aaaaa)   Tavern;
         (bbbbb)   Temporary help supply services;
         (ccccc)   Temporary manufactured home;
         (ddddd)   Tire, battery and accessory dealers;
         (eeeee)   Tobacco stores;
         (fffff)   Trade or business schools;
         (ggggg)   Truck sales, rental, leasing, repair;
         (hhhhh)   Watch, clock and jewelry repair;
         (iiiii)   Wholesale business; and
         (jjjjj)   Warehouse/self-storage facilities.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast;
         (b)   Colleges and universities;
         (c)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (d)   Day care center;
         (e)   Fraternity, sorority or student housing;
         (f)   Golf and country clubs;
         (g)   Hospital;
         (h)   Junior colleges and technical institutes;
         (i)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (j)   Public water wells, water stations, filtration plants;
         (k)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (l)   Stable, private;
         (m)   Studio business;
         (n)    Telephone exchange, or public utility station;
         (o)   Wireless communication facility;
         (p)   Dwelling, single- or two-family; and
         (q)   Farm.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: General Commercial (GC) Non-Residential
Development Standards: General Commercial (GC) Non-Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings                    35 ft.
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width
Minimum road frontage                          45 ft.
Minimum lot area
Minimum front yard setback                     20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback                      10 ft.
Minimum rear yard setback Primary structure    10 ft.
                          Accessory structure  10 ft.
Minimum open space                             15%
Maximum lot coverage                           70%
Development Standards: General Commercial (GC) Non-Residential
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer required             Yes
 
(Am. Res. 2017-04, passed 8-1-17)
§ 155.074 TOWN SQUARE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow commercial and
residential development in the town square area of Paoli. This district would
place convenience and necessity facilities close to consumers in limited areas
close to residences. All development in this district requires connection to
public water and public sewer. Single-family development in this district may
require subdivision approval while all other development requires development
plan approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping service;
         (b)   Advertising agencies;
         (c)   Agricultural credit institutions;
         (d)   Antique store;
         (e)   Apparel shop, shoes, custom tailoring;
         (f)   Art and music schools;
         (g)   Attorney services;
         (h)   Auto license bureaus;
         (i)   Bait sales;
         (j)   Banks and branch banks;
         (k)   Barber shop, beauty shop;
         (l)   Bed and breakfast;
         (m)   Bicycle shops;
         (n)   Billiard and pool establishments;
         (o)   Blood banks;
         (p)   Blueprinting and photocopying;
         (q)   Bond and mortgage company;
         (r)   Book and stationary store;
         (s)   Business associations;
         (t)   Cafeteria, restaurant;
         (u)   Camera and photographic supply;
         (v)   Candy, nut and confectionary;
         (w)   Carry out restaurant;
         (x)   Charitable institutions;
         (y)   China, glassware, metalware;
         (z)   Church or temple;
         (aa)   Civic, social, or religious organizations;
         (bb)   Clothing rental;
         (cc)   Coin-operated laundry and dry-cleaning;
         (dd)   Collection agencies;
         (ee)   Counselor-at-law;
         (ff)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (gg)   Dance halls, studios and schools;
         (hh)   Department store department store;
         (ii)   Detective agencies and protective services;
         (jj)   Dinner theater;
         (kk)   Disinfecting and exterminating services;
         (ll)   Drapery, curtain and upholstery;
         (mm)   Dressmaking;
         (nn)   Drug store;
         (oo)   Dwelling - multi-family;
         (pp)   Dwelling - single-family;
         (qq)   Electrical repair shop;
         (rr)   Electrical supply store;
         (ss)   Elementary and secondary schools;
         (tt)   Engineering and architectural service;
         (uu)   Floor coverings;
         (vv)   Florists, furriers;
         (ww)   Fruits and vegetables;
         (xx)   Gift, novelty and souvenir shops;
         (yy)   Grocery, bakery, meat and fish;
         (zz)   Group residential facility;
         (aaa)   Hardware or variety store;
         (bbb)   Hobby, toy and game shops;
         (ccc)   Hotel or motel;
         (ddd)   Household appliances, furniture;
         (eee)   Insurance agents, brokers and service;
         (fff)   Jewelry store;
         (ggg)   Libraries and information centers;
         (hhh)   Liquor store;
         (iii)   Lodge or private club;
         (jjj)   Medical and dental laboratories;
         (kkk)   Medical office;
         (lll)   Minor residential subdivision;
         (mmm)   Mortuary;
         (nnn)   Motion picture theater;
         (ooo)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (ppp)   Museum and art gallery;
         (qqq)   Music and video stores;
         (rrr)   News dealers;
         (sss)   Newspaper publishing;
         (ttt)   Night club;
         (uuu)   Paint, glass and wallpaper store;
         (vvv)    Parking lot;
         (www)   Pet shops;
         (xxx)   Photographic studio;
         (yyy)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning dealer;
         (zzz)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (aaaa)   Private employment agencies;
         (bbbb)   Professional office;
         (cccc)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (dddd)   Real estate service;
         (eeee)   Reducing and health salons;
         (ffff)   Reupholster and furniture repair;
         (gggg)   Shoe repair;
         (hhhh)   Sporting goods;
         (iiii)   Stock brokers and dealers;
         (jjjj)   Studio business;
         (kkkk)   Tailoring and pressing shops;
         (llll)   Tavern;
         (mmmm)   Temporary help supply services;
         (nnnn)   Tire, battery and accessory dealers;
         (oooo)   Tobacco stores; and
         (pppp)   Watch, clock and jewelry repair.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Clinic;
         (b)   Day care center;
         (c)   Diaper service;
         (d)   Drive-thru restaurant;
         (e)   Shopping center;
         (f)   Trade or business school; and
         (g)   Veterinary animal hospital.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: Single-Family Multi-Family Residential Non- Residential
Town Square (TWN)      Residential
Development Standards: Town Square  Single-Family Multi-Family Non- Residential
(TWN)                               Residential   Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings         35 ft.        35 ft.       35 ft.
Minimum ground    One-story         900 sq. ft.   500 sq. ft.
floor area        Multi-story       750 sq. ft.   350 sq. ft.
Minimum primary structure width     18 ft.
Minimum distance between dwelling
units
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width                   60 ft.
Minimum road frontage               50 ft.
Minimum lot area                    7,500 sq. ft.
Minimum front yard setback          25 ft.        25 ft.
Minimum side yard setback           10 ft.        10 ft.       10 ft.
Minimum rear yard Primary structure 20 ft.        20 ft.       10 ft.
setback           Accessory         5 ft.         20 ft.       10 ft.
                  structure
Maximum density (units/acre)        4.25          20.0
Minimum open space                  30%           15%          15%
Maximum lot coverage                70%           70%          70%
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer required  Yes           Yes          Yes
 
§ 155.075 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow all types of
industrial uses requiring both enclosed and unenclosed spaces for storage,
manufacturing, and fabricating. Development in this district requires
connection to public water and public sewer and development plan approval is
required.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping service;
         (b)   Anhydrous ammonia storage and distribution;
         (c)   Anhydrous ammonia storage and distribution;
         (d)   Animal day care facility;
         (e)   Auction sales yard (excluding livestock);
         (f)   Automatic car wash;
         (g)   Automobile body shop and painting;
         (h)   Automobile or motorcycle sales;
         (i)   Automobile repair, service station;
         (j)   Business associations;
         (k)   Cemetery or crematory;
         (l)   Charitable institutions;
         (m)   Civic, social, or religious organizations;
         (n)   Commercial facility for breeding non-farm fowl;
         (o)   Commercial testing laboratories;
         (p)   Composting facility;
         (q)   Contractors storage;
         (r)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (s)   Electrical repair shop;
         (t)   Electrical supply store;
         (u)   Engineering and architectural service;
         (v)   Fairgrounds;
         (w)   Farm;
         (x)   Farm implements and equipment sales;
         (y)   Farm product processing;
         (z)   Farm seasonal worker housing;
         (aa)   Food processing;
         (bb)   Fuel dealers;
         (cc)   Golf and country clubs;
         (dd)   Golf driving range and miniature golf course;
         (ee)   Hay, grain, and feed stores;
         (ff)   Indoor recreation facility;
         (gg)   Industry, general;
         (hh)   Junk yard;
         (ii)   Light industrial park;
         (jj)   Light industry;
         (kk)   Linen supply;
         (ll)   Liquefied petroleum gas, bottled gas dealers;
         (mm)   Lumber and building materials dealer;
         (nn)   Manufactured home, travel trailer, camper sales and service;
         (oo)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (pp)   Open material storage;
         (qq)   Outdoor shooting range, public or private;
         (rr)    Parking garage;
         (ss)   Parking lot;
         (tt)   Passenger car rental;
         (uu)   Petroleum tank farm;
         (vv)   Plant nursery;
         (ww)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning dealer;
         (xx)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (yy)   Public golf course;
         (zz)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (aaa)   Race track;
         (bbb)   Reupholster and furniture repair;
         (ccc)   Roadside produce stand;
         (ddd)   Sale barn for livestock;
         (eee)   Sanitary landfill, publicly owned;
         (fff)   Slaughter house;
         (ggg)   Stable, private;
         (hhh)   Stable, public;
         (iii)   Stadium, coliseum;
         (jjj)   Storage and dismantling of disabled vehicles;
         (kkk)   Theater, outdoor;
         (lll)   Transfer station;
         (mmm)   Truck freight terminal;
         (nnn)   Truck sales, rental, leasing, repair;
         (ooo)   Truck service center;
         (ppp)   Veterinary animal hospital;
         (qqq)   Warehouse (general);
         (rrr)   Warehouse (grain storage);
         (sss)   Wholesale business;
         (ttt)   Wholesale produce terminal; and
         (uuu)   Warehouse/self-storage facilities.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Sexually oriented business;
         (b)   Compost/digester facility;
         (c)   Construction/demolition site;
         (d)   Incinerator;
         (e)   Kennel;
         (f)   Landscape contractor;
         (g)   Manufacturing, use, or storage of explosives;
         (h)   Mineral extraction;
         (i)   Outdoor recreation facility;
         (j)   Penal or correctional institutions;
         (k)   Public camp ground or recreational vehicle park; and
         (l)   Sanitary landfill, privately owned.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: General Industrial (GI) Non-Residential
Development Standards: General Industrial (GI) Non-Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings                    35 ft.
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width
Minimum road frontage                          45 ft.
Minimum front yard setback                     20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback                      10 ft.
Minimum rear yard setback Primary structure    10 ft.
                          Accessory structure  10 ft.
Minimum open space                             15%
Maximum lot coverage
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer required             Yes
 
§ 155.076 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow light industrial
uses in which all operations, including storage of materials would be confined
within a building, and would include warehousing operations. Development in
this district requires connection to public water and public sewer as well as
development plan approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping service;
         (b)   Anhydrous ammonia storage and distribution;
         (c)   Anhydrous ammonia storage and distribution;
         (d)   Animal day care facility;
         (e)   Auction sales yard (excluding livestock);
         (f)   Automatic car wash;
         (g)   Automobile or motorcycle sales;
         (h)   Automobile parts supply;
         (i)   Automobile repair, service station;
         (j)   Banks and branch banks;
         (k)   Blueprinting and photocopying;
         (l)   Bowling alleys;
         (m)   Business associations;
         (n)   Cemetery or crematory;
         (o)   Charitable institutions;
         (p)   Civic, social, or religious organizations;
         (q)   Commercial facility for breeding non-farm fowl;
         (r)   Commercial testing laboratories;
         (s)   Composting facility;
         (t)   Contractors storage;
         (u)   Customary home occupation (accessory use);
         (v)   Day care center;
         (w)   Department store;
         (x)   Diaper service;
         (y)   Electrical repair shop;
         (z)   Electrical supply store;
         (aa)   Engineering and architectural service;
         (bb)   Fairgrounds;
         (cc)   Farm;
         (dd)   Farm and garden supply;
         (ee)   Farm implements and equipment sales;
         (ff)   Farm product processing;
         (gg)   Farm seasonal worker housing;
         (hh)   Food processing;
         (ii)   Fuel dealers;
         (jj)   Golf and country clubs;
         (kk)   Golf driving range and miniature golf course;
         (ll)   Hardware or variety stores;
         (mm)   Hay, grain, and feed stores;
         (nn)   Indoor recreation facility;
         (oo)   Industry, general;
         (pp)   Junk yard;
         (qq)   Life care facility;
         (rr)   Light industrial park;
         (ss)   Light industry;
         (tt)   Linen supply;
         (uu)   Liquefied petroleum gas, bottled gas dealers;
         (vv)   Lodge or private club;
         (ww)   Manufactured home, travel trailer, camper sales and service;
         (xx)   Monument sales;
         (yy)   Municipal or government buildings;
         (zz)   Newspaper publishing;
         (aaa)   Open material storage;
         (bbb)   Outdoor shooting range, public or private;
         (ccc)   Paint, glass and wallpaper store;
         (ddd)   Parking garage;
         (eee)   Parking lot;
         (fff)   Passenger car rental;
         (ggg)   Petroleum tank farm;
         (hhh)   Plant nursery;
         (iii)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning dealer;
         (jjj)   Police, postal, or fire station;
         (kkk)   Professional office;
         (lll)   Public golf course;
         (mmm)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (nnn)   Race track;
         (ooo)   Real estate service;
         (ppp)   Reducing and health salons;
         (qqq)   Reupholster and furniture repair;
         (rrr)   Roadside produce stand;
         (sss)   Sale barn for livestock;
         (ttt)   Sanitary landfill, publicly owned;
         (uuu)   Skating;
         (vvv)   Slaughter house;
         (www)   Stable, private;
         (xxx)   Stable, public;
         (yyy)   Stadium, coliseum;
         (zzz)   Tailoring and pressing shops;
         (aaaa)   Temporary manufactured home;
         (bbbb)   Theater, outdoor;
         (cccc)   Tire, battery and accessory dealers;
         (dddd)   Trade or business school;
         (eeee)   Transfer station;
         (ffff)   Truck freight terminal;
         (gggg)   Truck sales, rental, leasing, repair;
         (hhhh)   Truck service center;
         (iiii)   Veterinary animal hospital;
         (jjjj)   Warehouse (general);
         (kkkk)    Warehouse (grain storage);
         (llll)   Wholesale business;
         (mmmm)   Wholesale produce terminal; and
         (nnnn)   Warehouse/self-storage facilities.
      (2)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Compost/digester facility;
         (b)   Construction/demolition site;
         (c)   Incinerator;
         (d)   Kennel;
         (e)   Landscape contractor;
         (f)   Manufacturing, use, or storage of explosives;
         (g)   Mineral extraction;
         (h)    Outdoor recreation facility;
         (i)   Penal or correctional institutions;
         (j)   Sanitary landfill, privately owned; and
         (k)   Dwelling, single- or two-family.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: Light Industrial (LI) Non-Residential
Development Standards: Light Industrial (LI) Non-Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings                  35 ft.
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width
Minimum road frontage                        45 ft.
Minimum front yard setback                   20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback
Minimum rear yard setback                    Primary structure
                                             Accessory structure
Minimum open space
Maximum lot coverage
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer required
 
§ 155.077 BUFFER.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is established as the one-mile, extra-
territorials planning jurisdiction for the Town of Paoli in accordance with
Indiana Code (I.C. 36-7-4-205). The purpose of this district is to allow a wide
range of development opportunities contiguous to the town. Single-family
development requires subdivision approval while all other development requires
development plan approval.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Confined feeding;
         (b)   Sanitary landfill, privately owned;
         (c)   Sanitary landfill, publicly owned; and
         (d)   Hazardous waste facilities.
      (2)   Special exceptions. Reserved.
   (C)   Development standards.
Development Standards: Buffer (BUFF) Single-Family Residential Non- Residential
Development Standards: Buffer (BUFF)     Single-Family        Non- Residential
                                         Residential
Structure Standards
Maximum height of buildings              35 ft.               35 ft.
Minimum ground floor One-story           700 sq. ft.
area                 Multi-story         900 sq. ft.
Minimum primary structure width          18 ft.
Minimum distance between dwelling units  140 ft.
Lot Standards
Minimum lot width                        200 ft.
Minimum road frontage                    50 ft.               45 ft.
Minimum lot area                         15,000 ft. on sewer,
                                         1 acre on septic
Minimum front yard setback               50 ft.               20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback                40 ft.               10 ft.
Minimum rear yard    Primary structure   40 ft.               10 ft.
setback              Accessory structure 5 ft.                10 ft.
Maximum density (units/acre)             0.50
Minimum open space                       50%                  15%
Maximum lot coverage                     50%
Utility Standards
Municipal water and sewer required       No                   No
 
§ 155.078 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Floodplain Overlay District is applied as a supplemental
regulation on existing zoned areas that fall within the flood hazard areas,
including planned developments (PUDs) if enacted. The Floodplain Overlay
District is superimposed on the existing zoning districts and the restrictions
and requirements are in addition to those of the underlying zone. All land use
review processes that apply to the underlying zoning district shall remain in
full force and effect. In the case of overlapping or conflicting requirements,
the most restrictive provision shall apply. Reference the Flood Hazard
Ordinance 2014-14 (codified in
Chapter 151) for additional requirements for development in the floodplain.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Farm;
         (b)   Outdoor recreation facility;
         (c)   Publicly owned park or recreational facility;
         (d)   Public camp ground or recreational vehicle park;
         (e)   Public golf course; and
         (f)   Outdoor shooting range, public or private.
      (2)   Special exceptions. None.
   (C)   Development standards. The development standards of the underlying
zoning district shall apply.
SITE STANDARDS
§ 155.090 LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERYARDS.
   Landscaping and bufferyards. The bufferyard is a unit of yard together with
the planting thereon. Both the amount of land and the type and amount of
planting specified for each bufferyard requirement are designed to minimize
nuisances between adjacent land uses. The planting units required of
bufferyards have been calculated to ensure that they do, in fact, function as
"buffers". Bufferyards shall be required to separate land uses from each other
in order to eliminate or minimize potential nuisances such as dirt, litter,
noise, glare of lights, signs, and unsightly building or parking areas, or to
provide spacing to reduce adverse impacts of noise, odor, or danger from fires
or explosions. Proposed uses in any district that are specifically
agricultural, as defined under "agriculture" in §
155.220. General definitions are exempt from providing bufferyards unless
otherwise specified.
§ 155.091 LOCATION, MAINTENANCE, PLANTING SIZE AND LANDSCAPE PLAN.
   (A)   Bufferyards shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or
parcel, extending to the lot or parcel boundary line.
   (B)   At the discretion of the Administrator, the width of the bufferyard
may include all or a portion of rights-of-way, drainage easements, and utility
easements, however plantings shall not be located on any portion of these
areas. With this discretion, the Administrator must ensure that the
effectiveness of the required bufferyard shall not be compromised.
   (C)   All plant material that dies must be replaced within six months so as
to maintain the approved bufferyard and landscape plan.
   (D)   Deciduous trees are to be a minimum of two inches in diameter or eight
feet tall at the time of planting. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five
feet tall at the time of planting.
   (E)   Any existing plant material which otherwise satisfies the requirements
of this section may be counted toward satisfying all such requirements.
   (F)   The following plant material substitutions shall satisfy the
requirements of this section.
      (1)   In all bufferyards evergreen, canopy or evergreen understory trees
may be substituted for deciduous canopy trees without limitation.
      (2)   In all bufferyards, evergreen or conifer shrubs may be substituted
for deciduous shrubs without limitation. A landscape plan shall be submitted
with each applicable application. Such plan shall be a site plan drawn to scale
showing the location, type, size, and category of each plant unit used.
   (G)   When it has been proven that the required plantings of a bufferyard
cannot be installed because of existing easements or other unavoidable site
constraints, the Administrator shall have the discretion to allow the
substitution of alternative vegetation, provided that the total number of
plantings does not decrease.
§ 155.092 DETERMINATION OF BUFFERYARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   To determine the type of bufferyard required between two adjacent
parcels, the following procedure shall be followed.
      (1)   Identify the zoning district of the proposed land use by referring
to the horizontal column of the Table 1, Bufferyard Requirements.
      (2)   Identify the zoning district of the adjacent parcels by referring
to the vertical column of the Table 1, Bufferyard Requirements.
      (3)   Determine the bufferyard required on each boundary of the subject
parcel by referring to the Table 1, Bufferyard Requirements and then to the
options for that bufferyard.
   (B)   The required bufferyards constitute the total bufferyard required
between the adjacent land uses. Any of the alternatives for the required
bufferyard shall satisfy the requirement of buffering between adjacent land
uses.
§ 155.093 BUFFERYARD REQUIREMENTS, USES AND OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Bufferyard requirements.
      (1)   Bufferyard requirements are stated in terms of the width of the
bufferyard and the number of plant units required per 100 linear feet of
bufferyard. The requirements of a bufferyard may be satisfied by any of the
alternatives illustrated. The quantity and type of plant materials required by
each bufferyard are specific and identified in Appendix 1, Paoli Standard
Specifications and Standard Details, which is incorporated herein by reference
as if set out in full. The specifications of each bufferyard and its
alternatives are illustrated in this section. Each alternative depicts the
total bufferyard located between two parcels.
      (2)   Whenever a wall, fence, or berm is required within a bufferyard,
these are shown as "Fence/Berm" in Table 2 Bufferyard Planting Requirements.
The respective specifications are shown in Table 3, Fence and Berm Standards.
Whenever a wall is required in addition to a berm, the wall shall be located
between the berm and the higher intensity use, in order to provide maximum
sound absorption.
      (3)   If the development on the adjoining use is existing, planned, or
deed-restricted for solar access, understory trees may be substituted for
canopy trees where canopy trees would destroy solar access.
      (4)   If the development borders a jurisdictional boundary outside that
of this chapter, the bufferyard used shall be based on the district most
comparable to that of this chapter, at the discretion and approval of the
Administrator.
      (5)   The exact placement of required plants and structures shall be the
decision of each user except that the following requirements shall be
satisfied.
         (a)   Evergreen (or conifer) plant materials shall be planted in
clusters rather than singly in order to maximize their chances of survival.
         (b)   Berms with masonry walls required of bufferyard J and K options
are intended to buffer more significant nuisances from adjacent uses and,
additionally, to break up and absorb noise, which is achieved by the varied
heights of plant materials between the wall and the noise source.
         (c)   When berms with walls are required, the masonry wall shall be
closer than the berm to the higher intensity use.
         (d)   Within a bufferyard, a planting area at least five feet wide
containing 15% of the total plant requirements (based on the multiplier = 1)
shall be located between the masonry wall and the higher intensity class use.
These plants shall be chosen to provide species and sizes to reduce noise in
conjunction with the wall.
      (6)   All bufferyard areas shall be live vegetation and seeded with lawn
or prairie grasses unless such ground cover is already established.
      (7)   Bufferyards may contain natural water amenities or areas
established for drainage provided that planting requirements are still
satisfied.
      (8)   Bufferyards may overlap with drainage and utility easements, but
required plantings must not be placed within the drainage and utility easements
themselves.
   (B)   Use of bufferyards. A bufferyard may be used for passive recreation.
It may contain pedestrian, bike, or equestrian trails, provided that no plant
material is eliminated, the total width of the bufferyard is not reduced, and
all other regulations of the ordinance are met. In no event, however, shall
permanent structures be permitted in bufferyards including ice-skating rinks,
stables, swimming pools, and tennis courts.
   (C)   Ownership of bufferyards. Bufferyards may remain in the ownership of
the original developer of a land use, or they may be subjected to deed
restrictions and subsequently be freely conveyed, or they may be transferred to
any consenting grantees, such as adjoining landowners, a park or forest
preserve, or an open space or conservation group, provided that any such
conveyance adequately guarantees the protection of the bufferyards for the
purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   Excess bufferyard. Where the bufferyard required between a land use
and vacant land turns out to be greater than that bufferyard which is required
between the first use and the subsequently developed use, the following uses
apply:
      (1)   The subsequent use may provide one-half of the bufferyard required.
The existing use may expand its use into the original bufferyard area, provided
that the resulting total bufferyard between the two uses meets the bufferyard
requirements.
      (2)   The existing use may enter into agreements with abutting landowners
to use its existing bufferyard to provide some or all of the required
bufferyard of both land uses. The total bufferyard shall equal the
requirements. Provided that such an agreement can be negotiated, the initial
use may provide the second use some or all of its required bufferyard and/or
extra land on which it might develop. The existing use may reduce its excess
bufferyard by transferring part or the entire excess bufferyard to the
adjoining landowner to serve as its buffer. Any remaining excess bufferyard
area may be used by the existing use for expansion of that use or for transfer
by it to the adjoining landowner to expand that adjoining use.
   (E)   Bufferyard between like uses. Where a bufferyard is required in a
zoning district where the proposed use is similar to existing, surrounding uses
in terms of land use, size, density, and lot size, the bufferyard may be waived
at the discretion of the Administrator. Such waiver (or denial of a waiver) by
the Administrator shall be made in writing, justifying the decision.
   (F)   Table 1: Bufferyard Requirements.
Table 1. Bufferyard Requirements Adjacent District
Table 1. Bufferyard Requirements Adjacent District
Subject District AG
AG               /               SF
SF               A               B  MF
MF               A               D  B  HC
HC               A               E  E  B  GC
GC               A               E  E  B  B  TWN
TWN              A               D  D  B  B  B   GI
GI               A               H  H  C  C  D   B  LI
LI               A               G  G  C  D  D   B  B  BUFF
BUFF             @               @  @  @  @  @   @  @  @
/ = No bufferyard required            @ = As determined by Plan Commission
 
   (G)   Table 2: Bufferyard Planting Requirements.
TABLE 2. BUFFERYARD PLANTING PLANT UNITS REQUIRED PER 100 LINEAR FEET
REQUIREMENTS
TABLE 2. BUFFERYARD     PLANT UNITS REQUIRED PER 100 LINEAR FEET
PLANTING REQUIREMENTS
Bufferyard Width (feet) Canopy Trees Understory Shrubs Evergreen Fence/Berm
                                     Trees             Trees
A          40           0            0          0      0          
B          5            1            1          0      0          
C          10           1            2          3      1          
D          15           2            4          6      3          
E          10           3            5          9      3         F1 or F2
F          20           4            8          12     5         F1 or F2
G          30           5            8          18     8         F1 or F2 and
                                                                 B1
H          50           6            9          18     12        F1 or F2 and
                                                                 B1
 
   (H)   Table 3: Fence and Berm Standards.
 
TABLE 3. FENCE AND BERM STANDARDS
Fence Height (feet) Material/Design
F1    8             Wood stockade
F2    6             Masonry wall
Berm  Height (feet) Material/Design
B1    5             Earth
 
§ 155.094 LIGHTING, LOTS AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   Lighting. In any district, outdoor lighting, where provided, shall be
of a design and size that is harmonious with the design of the building, the
type of land use, and the type of adjacent land uses. If external spot or flood
lighting is used, the light source should be shielded and restrained in such a
manner so as not to illuminate or intrude on surrounding properties. Excessive
brightness, flashing lights, and brilliant colors are not permitted.
   (B)   Lots and setbacks.
      (1)   Lots. Every primary structure hereafter erected, except
agricultural structures not used for human habitation, shall be located on an
individual lot which fronts on a street or private drive. No building or
structure shall hereafter be erected or located on a lot unless such lot
conforms with the lot area regulations of the district in which it is located
or in accordance with §§
155.190 through
155.193 Non-conforming Uses.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   In the case of a through or corner lot, any property line
abutting a street shall be considered a front property line and the setback
from that line shall conform to the front yard setback regulations of that
district. Corner lots shall have two front yard setbacks and two side yard
setbacks.
         (b)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by
buildings, the average setbacks of such buildings determine the front yard
setback in the block. If there are no other buildings within 330 feet of the
proposed building in either direction, then the standard setback for the
district shall apply.
         (c)   Front yard setback lines established in recorded subdivisions
establish the front yards in such subdivisions. After the adoption of this
chapter, no subdivision shall be platted with building setback lines less than
the required front yard of the district in which it is located.
         (d)   One-half of an alley abutting the rear or side of a lot may be
included in the rear yard setback or side yard setback, respectively, but such
alley space shall not be included for loading and unloading berths.
         (e)   Architectural features (cornices, chimney, eave, sill, canopy,
or similar feature) or open platforms, porches, or landings may extend into a
required side or rear yard not more than two feet, and may project into a
required front yard not more than three feet.
      (3)   Driveways. An ILP shall be required for residential driveways that
connect to any street owned by the Town of Paoli, Indiana. Driveways shall be
adequately separated from roadway intersections in order to minimize conflict
with intersection traffic. No driveway shall enter the adjoining street at a
point closer than the distances shown below to the intersection of the street
right-of-way lines, or in the case of a rounded property corner, from the
intersection of the street right-of-way lines extended:
         (a)   Local street: 50 feet;
         (b)   Collectors: 75 feet; and
         (c)   Arterials: 100 feet.
§ 155.095 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To reduce traffic problems and hazards by eliminating unnecessary
on-street parking and loading. Every use of land except those located in the
TWN Zoning District must include on-premises parking and loading sufficient for
the needs normally generated by the use, as provided by this section.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces shall be used only for the parking of
vehicles of occupants, patrons, visitors, or employees and shall not be used
for any kind of loading, sales, servicing, or continuous storage of vehicles
for more than 48 hours.
      (3)   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any type without plates in an
inoperable condition so as to be deemed dead storage shall be prohibited in
residential districts other than in completely enclosed buildings and shall not
be parked or stored in any district unless specifically authorized under the
terms of this chapter.
      (4)   Space allotted to loading berths and loading areas shall not be
used to satisfy parking space requirements.
      (5)   A property owner shall not have more than two vehicles in their
yard for sale at any time without being labeled as an automobile sales
business.
   (B)   General design.
      (1)   Non-residential parking or loading areas along the street-front
should be minimized. When possible, parking or loading areas should be placed
to the rear of the structure. All parking or loading areas shall be designed
with appropriate means of movement and shall be so arranged that movement can
proceed safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other vehicles. No
parking area shall be so designed as to require backing into a public street,
public or private pedestrian access way, or from a public alley.
      (2)   All parking or loading spaces shall be designed, arranged and
regulated as to open directly upon an aisle or driveway without obstruction.
      (3)   All parking areas shall be striped and channelized as appropriate.
Parking spaces shall be marked and access lines clearly defined, including
directional arrows to guide internal movement and directional signs as
necessary.
      (4)   All parking or loading areas shall be maintained in good condition
and free of weeds, dirt, trash, and debris.
      (5)   Parking spaces shall be provided with bumper guards or wheel stops
along the perimeter of the parking area so located that no part of a parked
vehicle will extend beyond the boundary of the parking area.
      (6)   No more than 15 parking spaces shall be permitted in a continuous
row.
      (7)   All parking areas consisting of more than 60 spaces shall provide
separate pedestrian walkways. Such walkways should generally be oriented
perpendicular to and between parking bays.
         (a)   One walkway can serve as a collector for up to four rows of
parking spaces.
         (b)   The walkway should be a minimum of four feet wide, allowing an
additional 30 inches on each side for overhanging of vehicles.
         (c)   All walkways should be constructed to be clearly defined through
the use of material, landscaping or other form of delineation.
      (8)   Any use which fronts upon and utilizes access to a primary or
secondary arterial shall provide and utilize a common frontage or access lane
for the purpose of access, parking and loading.
      (9)   Required parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
structure. Parking structures shall be treated as any major structure and shall
be subject to all applicable structural requirements of this chapter and the
issuance of an ILP.
      (10)   Parking structures shall be designed to be architecturally
compatible with their surroundings, including appearance, size, scale, building
materials, and bulk.
      (11)   All parking areas shall conform to state and federal requirements
regarding handicap accessibility.
      (12)   A plan review shall be required for all parking areas.
   (C)   Design flexibility.
      (1)   Due to particularities of any given development, the inflexible
application of required parking spaces may result in parking and loading spaces
in excess of need. Upon the written request of the applicant, the Administrator
may authorize a reduction of required parking spaces not to exceed 10%.
Approval of reduction of required parking spaces by the Administrator shall be
in writing and shall include justification for allowing such reduction.
      (2)   Upon written request by the applicant, up to 25% of the dedicated
parking area may remain unpaved and in greenspace until such time as the need
for maximum parking is determined. This decision and determination shall be at
the discretion of the Administrator. Such decision shall be ratified by or
appealed to the PPC. Such greenspace shall not be counted toward required
landscaping or bufferyards.
   (D)   Required parking spaces.
      (1)   In determination of required parking spaces, any fraction of less
than one-half shall be disregarded, while a fraction one-half or greater shall
be counted as one parking space.
      (2)   For uses not specified in this section or in the instance
requirements for an adequate number of spaces is unclear, the number of spaces
shall be determined by the Administrator on the basis of similar requirements,
the number of persons served or employed and the capability of adequately
serving the visiting public. Such determination may be reviewed by the PPC or
appealed to the BZA.
      (3)   Unless noted in accordance with this section, the number of
required automobile parking spaces shall be considered the minimum allowable
number of spaces for any particular use.
      (4)   Table 4: Parking Requirements.
TABLE 4. PARKING REQUIREMENTS
TABLE 4. PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Education
College & Universities                1 per 3 students and employees
Trade or Business School
Elementary & Secondary Schools        3 per classroom
High School                           6 per classroom
Libraries & Information Centers       1 per 250 sq. ft.
Government
Municipal or Government Buildings     1 per 250 sq. ft.
Industrial Uses
Commercial Facility for Breeding Non-
farm Fowl                             1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 125 sq. ft.
Commercial Facility for Breeding Non- of sales area
farm Animals
Industry, General
Confined Feeding
Slaughter House                        
Warehouse (General)                    
Warehouse (Grain Storage)              
Wholesale Business                     
Wholesale Produce Terminal            1 per 2 employees
Non-industrial Farm, Agricultural,
Animal Related Uses
Commercial Greenhouse
Commercial Greenhouse                 1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 125 sq. ft.
                                      of sales area
Veterinary Animal Hospital            1 per 3 animal spaces (cages or pens)
Non-Profit Membership Organizations
Non-profit Membership Organizations   1 per 5 seats
Recreation, Amusement, Tourism
Bowling Alleys                        4 per lane
Golf & Country Clubs                  3 per golf hole
Bed and Breakfast                     1 per sleeping room
Hotel or Motel
Lodge or Private Club                 1 per 800 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Motion Picture Theater
Stadium, Coliseum                     1 per 5 seats
Theater, Outdoor
Outdoor Recreation Facility           5 per acre
Stable, Public                        1 per 5,000 sq. ft. of lot area
Residential
Day Care Center                       1 per 6 children, plus 1 per 2 employees
Group Residential Facility            1 per 4 residents
Nursing Home
Dwelling - Single-family              2 per dwelling unit
Dwelling - Multi-family
Government
Municipal or Government Buildings     1 per 250 sq. ft.
Retail Trade - Food Stores
Cafeteria, Restaurant
Candy, Nut & Confectionary
Carry Out Restaurant                   
Dairy Products, Health Foods           
Dinner Theater                         
Drive-In Restaurant                    
Fruits & Vegetables                   1 per 3 seats
Grocery, Bakery, Meat & Fish
Night Club
Tavern
Antique Store
Apparel Shop, Shoes, Custom Tailoring
Bait Sales
Bicycle Shops
Boat Sales
Book & Stationary Store
Camera & Photographic Supply
China, Glassware, Metalware
Department Store
Drapery, Curtain & Upholstery          
Drug Store                             
Electrical Supply Store                
Farm & Garden Supply                   
Farm Implements & Equipment Sales      
Floor Coverings                        
Florists, Furriers                     
Gift, Novelty & Souvenir Shops area    
Hardware or Variety Store              
Hobby, Toy & Game Shops                
Household Appliances, Furniture        
Jewelry Store                          
Liquor Store                           
Lumber & Building Materials Dealer     
Monument Sales                         
Music & Video Stores                  1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
News Dealers
Paint, Glass & Wallpaper Store
Pet Shops
Plumbing, Heating & Air Conditioning
Dealer
Shopping Center
Sporting Goods
Studio Business
Tobacco Stores
Farm implements and equipment sales   1 per 1,000 sq. ft. of lot and floor area
Services - Medical
Convalescent Homes                    1 per 4 residents
                                      1 per 4 beds, plus 1 per doctor, plus 1
Hospitals                             per 3 employees,
                                      plus 1 per hospital vehicle
Clinic                                1 per 2 employees, plus 3 per doctor
Medical Office
Services - Personal
Cemetery or Crematory                 1 per 2 employees,
Mortuary                              plus 1 per 6 seats
Utilities, Transportation, Communications
Mass Transit Station                  1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 4 public
                                      seats
Vehicle Dealers, Repair and Service
Automobile or Motorcycle Sales        1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
Automobile Repair, Service Station    plus 1 per employee, plus 1 per 1,000 sq.
                                      ft. of sales lot
 
      (5)   Joint use. Non-residential uses, within the same and/or separate
structures, may provide joint parking provided the total number of spaces is
not less than the sum of requirements for the various uses. To the extent that
developments with joint parking operate at different times, such parking spaces
may be credited to both uses.
      (6)   Satellite parking. Parking shall be required on site, except as
provided in this section; however, the BZA may grant satellite parking to any
non-residential use by special exception. At least part of such parking must be
within 300 feet of the proposed use. A site plan must accompany any such
application for special exception and must include the following:
         (a)   Adjacent streets, alleys and lots.
         (b)   All uses to be served Including the location, use and number of
parking spaces provided.
         (c)   A layout drawn to scale Indicating aisles, driveways, entrances,
exits, turn-off lanes, parking spaces, setbacks, drainage facilities,
landscaping, lighting, pavement, and identification signs Including location,
size and design.
         (d)   All satellite parking shall be developed, maintained and used in
accordance with the approved site plan and all other requirements.
         (e)   Any change or other modification of uses served or number or
parking spaces shall require amendment and re-approval by the BZA.
      (7)   Dimensions of parking spaces.
         (a)   Each parking space shall contain a rectangular area ten feet
wide and 20 feet long, exclusive of pedestrian passageways, access drives,
aisles, ramps, or landscaped areas. Handicapped parking spaces shall conform to
state and federal requirements regarding handicap accessibility.
         (b)   Parking areas set aside for parallel parking shall contain a
rectangular area nine feet wide and 22 feet long.
         (c)   Parking aisle widths shall conform to the following table:
 
TABLE 5. PARKING AISLE WIDTH
Parking Angle          0°30°45°60°90°
One-way Traffic (feet) 13 11  13  18  24
Two-way Traffic (feet) 19 20  21  23  24
 
         (d)   Each loading space shall be of a size not less than that
required for parking space but scaled larger to delivery vehicles expected to
be used.
         (e)   Driveways shall be a minimum ten feet wide for one-way traffic
and 18 feet wide for two-way traffic, except that a ten-foot wide driveway is
permissible for two-way traffic when the driveway is no longer than 50 feet and
provides access to a maximum of five parking spaces.
      (8)   Loading areas.
         (a)   Loading areas shall conform with the following requirements.
         (b)   Table 6.
TABLE 6. LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS AND DISTANCE
FROM RESIDENTIAL USES
 Required Berths Berth Distance From Residential Uses (feet)
TABLE 6. LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS AND DISTANCE
FROM RESIDENTIAL USES
                               Required Berths    Berth Distance From
                                                  Residential Uses (feet)
Retail or Department Store, Wholesale Storage, Warehousing or other Business
Use
3,000 to 15,000 sq. ft. gross  1                  -
floor area
Each 15,000 sq. ft. or
additional fraction of         1 additional       -
gross floor area
Office Building
25,000 to 100,000 sq. ft.      1                  -
gross floor area
100,000 to 350,000 sq. ft.     2                  -
gross floor area
Each 200,000 or additional
fraction of gross              1 additional       -
floor area
Industrial Use
Less than 15,000 sq. ft. gross 1                  100
floor area
15,000 to 40,000 sq. ft. gross 2                  100
floor area
40,000 to 100,000 sq. ft.      3                  100
gross floor area
Each 40,000 or additional
fraction of gross              1 additional       100
floor area
Commercial Greenhouse
15,000 square feet or less     1                  50
More than 15,000 square feet   2                  -
Hospital
200 beds or less               1                  50
200 to 500 beds                2                  50
more than 500 beds             3                  50
Commercial Facility for Breeding/Raising Non-Farm Fowl and Animals
Commercial facility for
breeding/raising non-farm fowl 1                  100
and animals
Stadium or Coliseum
Stadium or Coliseum            2                  50
Airport
Airport                        Same as industrial 100
Mineral Extraction
Mineral Extraction, Borrow
Pit, Topsoil Removal and Their Same as industrial 300
Storage Areas
Outdoor Commercial Recreational Enterprise
Outdoor Commercial             Same as
Recreational                   industrial         50
Enterprise
Truck Freight Terminal
Truck Freight Terminal         Same as industrial 100
 
      (9)   Surface. All parking or loading areas for five or more automobiles
shall be developed in accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Parking and loading areas shall be graded and surfaced with an
all-weather paving material such as asphalt, concrete, or other material that
will provide equivalent protection against potholes, erosion, and dust.
However, a gravel surface may be used for a period not exceeding one year after
the date of issuing the certificate of occupancy where ground conditions are
not immediately suitable for permanent surfacing as specified in this section.
         (b)   All areas shall be striped and channelized as appropriate.
Parking stalls shall be marked and the access lines clearly defined, including
directional arrows to guide internal movement.
      (10)   Landscaping. Parking lots should be effectively landscaped with
trees and shrubs to reduce the visual impact of glare, headlights, and parking
lot lights from the public right-of-way and from adjoining properties. In
addition, parking lots should be adequately shaded to reduce the amount of
reflected heat.
         (a)   Perimeter bufferyard. Parking or loading areas abutting any
street-front or residential use shall provide a perimeter Bufferyard C for
parking and Bufferyard E for loading areas or that required for the proposed
use in §
155.090, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Interior landscaping. Interior landscaping shall be comprised of
one canopy tree and three shrubs for every 15 parking spaces.
         (c)   Maintenance. Maintenance of landscaping for parking and loading
areas shall be in accordance with §
155.091.
         (d)   Lighting. Lighting provided to illuminate off-street parking
areas shall be so arranged, shielded and directed upon the parking area in such
a manner as to not reflect or cause glare into adjacent properties or interfere
with street traffic.
         (e)   Loading and unloading. Uses, except those that do not receive or
transport goods in quantity by truck delivery, shall be provided loading
berths. Each loading and unloading berth must include a 12-foot by 45-foot
loading space with a 14-foot height clearance. Loading and unloading berths
must be a minimum distance from the nearest residential use in accordance with
Table 6, Loading Berth Requirements and Distance from Residential Uses.
         (f)   Inspections. At the time the structure receives its final
inspection, the completion of the landscaping in accordance with these
requirements shall also be a part of the final inspection. However, if seasonal
circumstances do not permit the planting of the required landscaping, the final
inspection of the landscaping shall be performed at a reasonable, later date as
determined by the Administrator.
      (11)   Non-conforming parking, enlargement, or alteration of existing
structure.
         (a)   No use lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
section shall be required to provide and maintain the parking and loading
requirements of this section, provided that parking and loading spaces required
by any previous ordinance pursuant to state statutes shall be continued and
maintained.
         (b)   For any non-conforming use which is hereafter damaged or
partially destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, re-established, or
repaired, parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the
time of such damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in
operation, provided, however, it is not necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this chapter for
equivalent new uses.
         (c)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or
premises shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area,
beds, seating capacity, or other unit of measurement, parking and loading
facilities shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
         (d)   When the existing use of a building, structure or premises shall
be changed or converted to a new use permitted by this chapter, parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required for the new use.
         (e)   Parking and loading facilities in existence on the effective
date of this section shall not be reduced below or if already less than, shall
not be further reduced below, the requirements for a new use under this
section.
§ 155.096 GENERAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   These sign standards apply to uses that are permitted in each respective
zoning district by right, special exception, or use variance. The intent of
these sign standards is to accomplish the goals of the Comprehensive Plan; to
regulate time, place and manner characteristics of signs; to avoid the
proliferation of signs; to provide businesses with appropriate identification;
to create a consistent streetscape; to maintain and enhance the aesthetic
environment of the town; to eliminate potential hazards to motorists and
pedestrians resulting from sign clutter; and, to promote the health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of Paoli.
   (A)   Sign types. The different types of signs addressed in this chapter are
defined in §
155.220 General Definitions.
      (1)   Permitted signs. The types of signs specifically permitted in each
in each zoning district and their respective regulations are listed in this
article.
      (2)   Prohibited signs. Type types of signs specifically prohibited in
each zoning district are listed in this article. In addition, the following
types of signs are prohibited in all districts:
         (a)   Animated signs. Signs that gain attention through animation,
including:
            1.   Signs that utilize any motion picture, laser, or visual
projection of images or copy.
            2.   Signs that emit audible sound, odor or visible matter.
            3.   Signs that have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights or
which has a changing light intensity, brightness or color, or give such
illusion.
         (b)   Misleading signs. Signs that are misleading, including:
            1.   Signs that purport to be or are in imitation of, or resemble
an official traffic sign or signal or which bear the words "stop", "slow",
"caution", "danger", "warning", or similar words.
            2.   Signs that may be construed as or have on it a light of an
emergency or road equipment vehicle.
         (c)   Roof signs. Signs to be placed on the roofs of structures and
signs that extend above the roof line or parapet of a building.
         (d)   Vehicle signs. Vehicle signs are prohibited when the vehicle is
parked on public or private property for the primary purpose of displaying the
sign. Prohibited vehicle signs are not to be construed as vehicles with signs
on them that:
            1.   Are lawfully parked overnight or during nonbusiness hours for
that operation, on public or private property;
            2.   Are making deliveries, sales calls, or customary practices
relating to doing business;
            3.   Are making trips to transport persons or property; or
            4.   Are in conjunction with customary construction operations on a
construction site.
         (e)   Other prohibited signs. 
            1.   Trailblazer or point of destination signs;
            2.   Search lights;
            3.   Pennants, streamers, and/or spinners;
            4.   Bench signs;
            5.   Signs with moving or movable parts; and
            6.   Obscene signs that contain profane language, male genitalia
and/or female genitalia are prohibited.
      (3)   Signs exempt from these regulations. Signs that are specifically
exempt from these regulations and their respective limitations include:
         (a)   Building addresses. Every building is required to post its
numerical street address, and is exempt from needing a permit if installed as
follows:
            1.   Single-family residential structure addresses. Street
addresses for single-family residential structures shall consist of Arabic
numerals (i.e, 1, 2, 3...) no less than four inches in height and no more than
eight inches in height on its mailbox and/or at its main entrance door,
whichever is more visible.
            2.   Apartment complex addresses. Street addresses for apartment
complexes shall consist of Arabic numerals (e.g. 1, 2, 3...) no less than five
inches in height and no more than ten inches in height. Each apartment complex
is required to have each building's address displayed in an obvious location if
the entrance into each apartment unit is not clearly labeled with a street
address.
            3.   Non-residential use addresses. The minimum and maximum height
for address numbers varies according to front setback as follows:
               a.   If the address is posted 100 feet or less from the road
right-of-way, the numbers shall be between five and 12 inches in height.
               b.   If the address is posted between 100 and 200 feet from the
road right-of-way, the numbers shall be between eight and 16 inches in height.
               c.   If the address is posted over 200 feet from the road right-
of-way, the numbers shall be between 12 and 20 inches in height.
            4.   Legibility. All street addresses shall contrast to the color
of the surface on which they are mounted and shall be clearly visible and
identifiable from the street.
         (b)   Directional devices. Directional devices if installed as
follows:
            1.   Use. Directional devices shall be used to indicate points of
entry or exit for a business, public amenity, or off-street parking area.
            2.   Area. Directional devices are limited to a maximum of four
square feet in area per entrance.
            3.   Height. Directional devices are limited to a maximum of 42
inches in height above the ground.
            4.   Placement.
               a.   Directional devices shall not interfere with safe vehicular
or pedestrian traffic circulations.
               b.   Directional devices shall not obstruct tile view of drivers
entering or exiting the lot.
               c.   Directional devices shall not be placed within a public
right-of-way.
               d.   Directional devices shall be on the property to which it
refers.
            5.   Quantity. No more than two directional devices shall be used
per street frontage, with a maximum of four per parcel.
            6.   Message. Directional devices without a logo may contain
information such as "in", "enter", "entrance", "out", "exit", "do not enter" or
directional arrows indicating desired traffic movement.
         (c)   Flags. The flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city
or other political unit are exempt, but shall not be mounted more than 35 feet
in height and be more than 40 square feet in area (e.g. a five-foot by eight-
foot flag).
            1.   Residential: maximum area of a flag shall be 25 square feet.
            2.   Non-residential: maximum area of a flag shall be 35 square
feet.
         (d)   Holiday decorations. Holiday decorations are exempt and may
include window painting, trees, wreaths, decorative lighting, and similar
seasonal displays that do not contain the name or logo of an establishment or
any type of advertising.
         (e)   Informational signs. Informational signs are exempt.
         (f)   Murals. Murals are exempt provided that the mural does not
contain the name or logo of an establishment or any type of advertising. Murals
with non-commercial messages.
         (g)   Residential private property. Informational signs are permitted
on residential private property provided that they do not exceed one square
foot in area.
         (h)   Religious symbols. Religious symbols that are incorporated into
the architecture on places of worship or structures owned and operated by
religious organizations that are not accompanied with text.
         (i)   Scoreboards. Scoreboards are exempt from needing a permit as
follows: (1) when used in conjunction with a legally established sport field;
and (2) when not containing any commercial messages; and (3) when the
scoreboard does not exceed 20 feet in height above the ground; and (4) when the
total scoreboard area does not exceed 100 square feet; and (5) when the
scoreboards are single sided.
         (j)   Wayfinding signs. Wayfinding signs erected by the municipality.
   (B)   Sign permits.
      (1)   Signs requiring permits. A sign permit is required for all signs
located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, and altered unless
otherwise stated in the in this subchapter.
      (2)   Signs exempt from permits. See division (A)(3) signs exempt from
these regulations.
   (C)   Installation. The ground shall not be raised or lowered to
artificially change the point at which a sign height is measured.
   (D)   Location and placement. Signs may not be installed at any of the
following locations:
      (1)   In any public right-of-way, unless specifically authorized by the
Town Council or their designee.
      (2)   In any utility easement unless authorized by the Town Council or
their designee.
      (3)   In any no-build or no-disturb zone.
      (4)   In any public park or other public property, with the exception of
those signs specifically permitted in this chapter.
      (5)   On any traffic control signs, highway construction signs, fences,
utility poles, street signs, trees or other natural objects.
      (6)   Obstructing any door, fire escape, stairway, or any opening
intended to provide entrance or exit for any building or structure.
      (7)   In a manner that obstructs or interferes with safe movement of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (E)   Materials. Pole signs shall not have poles or support structures that
are wooden.
   (F)   Computations.
      (1)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest rectangle that will encompass the
extreme limits of the sign, but not including any supporting framework,
bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets
the regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
      (2)   Computation of area of multifaceted signs. The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all
sign faces.
      (3)   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed as
the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign or structure supporting the sign. Normal
grade shall be construed to be the lower of (1) existing grade prior to
construction; or (2) the newly established grade after construction, exclusive
of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of
locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be
determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation
of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the
nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the
principal entrance to the principal structure on the zone lot, whichever is
lower.
      (4)   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area for a lot. The
permitted sum of the area of all individual signs on a lot shall be computed by
applying the regulations for the road frontage, building frontage or wall area
for each respective sign and zoning district in which the lot is located. Lots
fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted sign area for each
street frontage. However, the total sign area that is oriented toward a
particular street may not exceed the portion of the lot's total sign area
allocation that is derived from the lot, building, or wall area frontage on
that street.
   (G)   Maintenance. All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good
repair and in safe, neat, clean and working condition. A sign that is not
properly maintained shall be classified as an "abandoned sign" and shall be
regulated accordingly.
   (H)   Abandoned signs. All on-site signs, their mounting, and related
components shall be removed within six months of the day the business which it
identifies is no longer conducted. When a permanent sign exists that allows a
"face-out/face-in" change to identify a new business, said sign may be left
standing, but must be covered with a durable and attractive material. Under no
circumstances shall any permanent sign be left in place for more than three
months. The owner of the premise upon which the sign is located is responsible
for its removal or covering.
   (I)   Non-conforming signs. Signs existing prior to the adoption of these
sign regulations shall be classified below. Signs are considered "structures"
and are further regulated in §§
155.190 through
155.193 with regard to non-conforming structures.
      (1)   Conforming. The sign meets the new regulations;
      (2)   Legally non-conforming. The sign met the old regulations and is now
grandfathered; or
      (3)   Illegal. The sign didn't meet the old regulations and doesn't meet
the new regulations.
   (J)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter will
result in notices, enforcement and penalties as per §§
155.135 through
155.141.
      (2)   Repeat violation. A repeat violation means a violation of a
specific provision of this section by a person who has been previously found to
have violated the same provision within a period of five years prior to a
subsequent violation. If a repeat violation is found, the Administrator shall
document the violation, but is not required to notify the violator of the
repeat violation or required to give the violator time to correct the violation
before proceeding with enforcement measures and penalties.
(Am. Res. 2017-04, passed 8-1-17)
§ 155.097 AGRICULTURE SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Overall district sign regulations.
      (1)   Sign regulations for permanent and temporary signs in the AG
District.
 
SIGN REGULATIONS FOR PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIGNS IN THE AG DISTRICT
Cumulative      Cumulative      Maximum
Total of        Total of        Cumulative Area                 Prohibited
Permanent Signs Temporary Signs of Permanent    Permitted Signs Signs
Permitted On    Permitted On    Signs (square
Site            Site            feet)
                                                                Awning
                                                                Banner
                                                Permanent       Bench sign
                                                signs:          Billboard
                                                Changeable copy Electronic
1 per 200 feet                                  Marker sign     Hanging
of road         2 (unless                       Monument sign   Inflatable
frontage        otherwise                       Wall sign       Mural
(unless         stated by sign  40                             Off-premise
otherwise       type)                           Temporary       Pole
stated by sign                                  signs:          Portable
type)                                           Changeable copy Projecting
                                                Marker sign     Roof
                                                Monument sign   Unified
                                                Wall sign       development
                                                                Vehicle
                                                                Window
 
      (2)   Illumination. All illuminated signs shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights, nor
shall any device be utilized which has a changing light intensity, brightness
of color, or give such illusion.
         (b)   All illuminating elements shall be kept in satisfactory working
condition and repaired or replaced if damaged or inoperable within 14 days or
as soon as possible if circumstances (e.g. weather or product availability) do
not allow.
         (c)   The direct or reflected light from a primary light source shall
not create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public and/or
private roadways and parking lots.
         (d)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded,
shielded, or directed such that the light intensity or brightness does not
interfere with safety or visibility and does not project onto any adjacent
property. No exposed light source is permitted.
         (e)   Neon light elements may be used for internal illumination and/or
when permitted otherwise in this chapter.
   (B)   Permanent signs. The following signs are permitted as permanent signs
and are subject to the development standards described for each type of sign
respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Permanent changeable copy sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.    For institutional uses only; and
            2.   Sign must be accessory to a primary structure and use on the
subject site.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Monument sign: 20 square feet per side; and
            2.   Wall sign: 20 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Monument sign: six feet above ground level; and
            2.   Wall sign: 20 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping. The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of a wall sign may protrude more than four inches from
the wall it is attached to.
            2.   At least 100 feet of separation between monument signs on the
same lot.
      (2)   Permanent marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only;
            2.   Lot must have at least 500 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area: 16 square feet per side.
         (d)   Maximum height: 12 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping. The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations: none.
      (3)    Permanent monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For institutional uses only; and
            2.   Sign must be accessory to a primary structure and use on the
subject site.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area: 40 square feet per side.
         (d)   Maximum height: six feet above ground level.
         (e)    Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping. The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations: none.
      (4)    Permanent wall sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For institutional uses only; and
            2.   Sign must be accessory to a primary structure and use on the
subject site.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: two signs.
         (c)   Maximum area: 40 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is 15 feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 12 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of the sign may protrude more than four inches from
the wail it is attached.
            2.   No part of the sign may extend above the eaves of the roof or
be mounted on the roof.
   (C)   Temporary signs. The following signs are permitted as temporary signs
and are subject to the time, placement, and development standards described for
each type of sign respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Temporary changeable copy sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: for institutional uses only.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Type: monument sign only.
         (d)   Maximum quantity: one sign per road frontage of the subject lot.
         (e)   Maximum area: five square feet per side.
         (f)   Maximum height: four feet above ground level.
         (g)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (h)   Permit required: no.
         (i)   Other limitations: None.
      (2)   Temporary marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only.
            2.   Lot must have at least 300 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: 60 per 300 feet of road frontage.
         (d)   Maximum area: four square feet per side.
         (e)   Maximum height: eight feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: ten feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
      (3)   Temporary monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: one sign per road frontage of the subject lot.
         (d)   Maximum area: five square feet per side.
         (e)   Maximum height: four feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations:
            1.   Sign cannot be located on any public sidewalk.
            2.   Sign may not be permanently affixed to the ground.
      (4)   Temporary wall sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, but the event
shall not to exceed seven consecutive days or 14 total days in any calendar
year. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event and
must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (d)   Maximum area: five square feet.
         (e)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is four feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 15 feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
§ 155.098 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Overall district sign regulations.
      (1)   Sign regulations for permanent and temporary signs in the SF
District.
 
SIGN REGULATIONS FOR PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIGNS IN THE SF DISTRICT
Cumulative      Cumulative      Maximum
Total of        Total of        Cumulative Area                 Prohibited
Permanent Signs Temporary Signs of Permanent    Permitted Signs Signs
Permitted On    Permitted On    Signs (square
Site            Site            feet)
                                                                Awning
                                                Permanent       Bench sign
                                                signs:          Billboard
                                                Changeable copy Electronic
                                                Marker sign     Hanging
1 per each road 1 per each road                 Monument sign   Inflatable
frontage        frontage        40 square feet  Wall sign       Mural
(unless         (unless         per each road                  Off-premise
otherwise       otherwise       frontage        Temporary       Pole
stated by sign  stated by sign                  signs:          Portable
type)           type)                           Banner          Projecting
                                                Changeable copy Roof
                                                Marker sign     Unified
                                                Monument sign   development
                                                               Vehicle
                                                                Window
 
      (2)   Illumination. All illuminated signs shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights, nor
shall any device be utilized which has a changing light intensity, brightness
of color, or give such illusion.
         (b)   All illuminating elements shall be kept in satisfactory working
condition and repaired or replaced if damaged or inoperable within 14 days or
as soon as possible if circumstances (e.g. weather or product availability) do
not allow.
         (c)   The direct or reflected light from a primary light source shall
not create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public and/or
private roadways and parking lots.
         (d)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded,
shielded, or directed such that the light intensity or brightness does not
interfere with safety or visibility and does not project onto any adjacent
property. No exposed light source is permitted.
         (e)   Neon light elements may be used for internal illumination and/or
when permitted otherwise in this chapter.
   (B)   Permanent signs. The following signs are permitted as permanent signs
and are subject to the development standards described for each type of sign
respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Permanent changeable copy sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For institutional uses only; and
            2.   Sign must be accessory to a primary structure and use on the
subject site.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Monument sign: 20 square feet per side; and
            2.   Wall sign: 20 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Monument sign: six feet above ground level; and
            2.   Wall sign: 20 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of a wall sign may protrude more than four inches from
the wall it is attached to.
            2.   At least 100 feet of separation between monument signs on the
same lot.
      (2)   Permanent marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only; and
            2.   Lot must have at least 500 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area: 16 square feet per side.
         (d)   Maximum height: 12 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations: none.
      (3)   Permanent monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: for subdivision or neighborhood entryways and for
institutional uses.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign per road frontage.
         (c)   Maximum area: 40 square feet per side.
         (d)   Maximum height: six feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five foot from right-of-way.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations:
            1.   Sign shall be maintained by a home owner's association or
similar legally binding arrangement.
            2.   Sign must consist entirely of brick, stone, or other
aesthetically appealing materials. The reverse sides of such signs shall use
the same materials and be finished to match the front.
      (4)   Permanent wall sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For institutional uses only; and
            2.   Sign must be accessory to a primary structure and use on the
subject site.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one per facade, maximum two signs.
         (c)   Maximum area: 40 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is 15 feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 12 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of the sign may protrude more than four inches from
the wall it is attached.
            2.   No part of the sign may extend above the eaves of the roof or
be mounted on the roof.
   (C)   Temporary signs. The following signs are permitted as temporary signs
and are subject to the time, placement, and development standards described for
each type of sign respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Temporary banner sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, but the event
shall not to exceed seven consecutive days or 14 total days in any calendar
year. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event and
must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: one.
         (d)   Maximum area: 25 square feet.
         (e)   Maximum height: 15 feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: Sign cannot be located on any public
sidewalk.
      (2)   Temporary changeable copy sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: for institutional uses only.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Type: monument sign only.
         (d)   Maximum quantity: one sign per road frontage of the subject lot.
         (e)   Maximum area: five square feet per side.
         (f)   Maximum height: four feet above ground level.
         (g)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (h)   Permit required: no.
         (i)   Other limitations: None.
      (3)   Temporary marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only.
            2.   Lot must have at least 300 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: 60 per 300 feet of road frontage.
         (d)   Maximum area: four square feet per side.
         (e)   Maximum height: eight feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: ten feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
      (4)   Temporary monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Placement: Sign must be placed adjacent to the public right-of-
way.
         (d)   Maximum quantity: one sign per road frontage of the subject lot.
         (e)   Maximum area: five square feet per side.
         (f)   Maximum height: four feet above ground level.
         (g)   Setback: one foot from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (h)   Permit required: no.
         (i)   Other limitations:
            1.   Sign cannot be located on any public sidewalk.
            2.   Sign may not be permanently affixed to the ground.
§ 155.099 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Overall district sign regulations.
      (1)   Sign regulations for permanent and temporary signs in the MF
District.
 
SIGN REGULATIONS FOR PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIGNS IN THE MF DISTRICT
Cumulative      Cumulative      Maximum
Total of        Total of        Cumulative Area                 Prohibited
Permanent Signs Temporary Signs of Permanent    Permitted Signs Signs
Permitted On    Permitted On    Signs (square
Site            Site            feet)
                                                                Awning
                                                Permanent       Bench sign
                                                signs:          Billboard
                                                Changeable copy Electronic
                                                Marker sign     Hanging
1 per each road 1 per each road                 Monument sign   Inflatable
frontage        frontage        50 square feet  Wall sign       Mural
(unless         (unless         per each road                  Off-premise
otherwise       otherwise       frontage        Temporary       Pole
stated by sign  stated by sign                  signs:          Portable
type)           type)                           Banner          Projecting
                                                Marker sign     Roof
                                                Monument sign   Unified
                                                               development
                                                                Vehicle
                                                                Window
 
      (2)   Illumination. All illuminated signs shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights, nor
shall any device be utilized which has a changing light intensity, brightness
of color, or give such illusion.
         (b)   All illuminating elements shall be kept in satisfactory working
condition and repaired or replaced if damaged or inoperable within 14 days or
as soon as possible if circumstances (e.g. weather or product availability) do
not allow.
         (c)   The direct or reflected light from a primary light source shall
not create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public and/or
private roadways and parking lots.
         (d)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded,
shielded, or directed such that the light intensity or brightness does not
interfere with safety or visibility and does not project onto any adjacent
property. No exposed light source is permitted.
         (e)   Neon light elements may be used for internal illumination and/or
when permitted otherwise in this chapter.
   (B)   Permanent signs. The following signs are permitted as permanent signs
and are subject to the development standards described for each type of sign
respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Permanent changeable copy sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For institutional uses only; and
            2.   Sign must be accessory to a primary structure and use on the
subject site.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Monument sign: 25 square feet per side; and
            2.   Wall sign: 25 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Monument sign: six feet above ground level; and
            2.   Wall sign: 20 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
         3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material such
as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of a wall sign may protrude more than four inches from
the wall it is attached to.
            2.   At least 100 feet of separation between monument signs on the
same lot.
      (2)   Permanent marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only; and
            2.   Lot must have at least 500 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area: 16 square feet per side.
         (d)   Maximum height: 12 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations: none.
      (3)   Permanent monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: for apartment complexes or lease lot developments
with at least 20 dwelling units and for institutional uses.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign per road frontage.
         (c)   Maximum area: 50 square feet per side.
         (d)   Maximum height: five feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five foot from right-of-way.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations:
            1.   Sign shall be maintained by a home owner's association or
similar legally binding arrangement.
            2.   Sign must consist entirely of brick, stone, or other
aesthetically appealing materials. The reverse sides of such signs shall use
the same materials and be finished to match the front.
      (4)   Permanent wall sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For institutional uses only; and
            2.   Sign must be accessory to a primary structure and use on the
subject site.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one per facade, maximum two signs.
         (c)   Maximum area: 50 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is 15 feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 12 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of the sign may protrude more than four inches from
the wall it is attached.
            2.   No part of the sign may extend above the eaves of the roof or
be mounted on the roof.
   (C)   Temporary signs. The following signs are permitted as temporary signs
and are subject to the time, placement, and development standards described for
each type of sign respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Temporary banner sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, but the event
shall not to exceed seven consecutive days or 14 total days in any calendar
year. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event and
must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: one.
         (d)   Maximum area: 25 square feet.
         (e)   Maximum height: 15 feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: Sign cannot be located on any public
sidewalk.
      (2)   Temporary marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only.
            2.   Lot must have at least 300 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: 60 per 300 feet of road frontage.
         (d)   Maximum area: four square feet per side.
         (e)   Maximum height: eight feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: ten feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
      (3)   Temporary monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Placement: Sign must be placed adjacent to the public right-of-
way.
         (d)   Maximum quantity: one sign per road frontage of the subject lot.
         (e)   Maximum area: five square feet per side.
         (f)   Maximum height: four feet above ground level.
         (g)   Setback: five foot from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (h)   Permit required: Yes. Each new sign or the posting/relocation of
an existing sign requires a new permit.
         (i)   Other limitations:
            1.   Sign cannot be located on any public sidewalk.
            2.   Sign may not be permanently affixed to the ground.
§ 155.100 TOWN SQUARE SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Overall district sign regulations.
      (1)   Sign regulations for permanent and temporary signs in the TWN
District.
 
SIGN REGULATIONS FOR PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIGNS IN THE TWN DISTRICT
Cumulative      Cumulative      Maximum
Total of        Total of        Cumulative Area                 Prohibited
Permanent Signs Temporary Signs of Permanent    Permitted Signs Signs
Permitted On    Permitted On    Signs (square
Site            Site            feet)
                                                Permanent
                                                signs:
                                                Awning
                                                Changeable copy
                                                Electronic
                                                Hanging
                                                Mural           Banner
                                Single-tenant   Projecting      Bench sign
1 per each 200                  structure:      Unified         Billboard
feet of road    1 per tenant    60 square feet  development     Inflatable
frontage        (unless                        Wall sign       Marker sign
(unless         otherwise                      Window          Monument sign
otherwise       stated by sign  Multi-tenant    Wayfinding      Off-premise
stated by sign  type)           structure:                     Pole
type)                           40 square feet  Temporary       Portable
                                per tenant      signs:          Roof
                                                Banner          Vehicle
                                                Marker sign      
                                                Sandwich board
                                                sign (only
                                                permitted
                                                during business
                                                hours)
                                                 
 
      (2)   Illumination. All illuminated signs shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights, nor
shall any device be utilized which has a changing light intensity, brightness
of color, or give such illusion.
         (b)   All illuminating elements shall be kept in satisfactory working
condition and repaired or replaced if damaged or inoperable within 14 days or
as soon as possible if circumstances (e.g. weather or product availability) do
not allow.
         (c)   The direct or reflected light from a primary light source shall
not create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public and/or
private roadways and parking lots.
         (d)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded,
shielded, or directed such that the light intensity or brightness does not
interfere with safety or visibility and does not project onto any adjacent
property. No exposed light source is permitted.
         (e)   Neon light elements may be used for internal illumination and/or
when permitted otherwise in this chapter.
   (B)   Permanent signs. The following signs are permitted as permanent signs
and are subject to the development standards described for each type of sign
respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Permanent awning sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: none.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 20 square feet.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: ten square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is two feet.
            2.   No part of the awning shall be less than nine feet above
ground level.
            3.   Top of awning sign may not be located more than is feet above
ground level.
         (e)   Other limitations: Sign shall not be illuminated by back-
lighting.
      (2)   Permanent changeable copy sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: Must be an integral part of a permanent wall
sign.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: Per maximum quantity requirements for
permanent wall signs.
         (c)   Maximum area: Up to 100% of a permanent wall sign.
         (d)   Maximum height: Per maximum height for permanent wall signs.
         (e)   Other limitations:
            1.   Only static messages are allowed which are placed text or
electronic messages.
            2.   No scrolling, flashing, or cyclical changing of electronic
messages is permitted.
      (3)   Permanent electronic/sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: Must be an integral part of a permanent wall
sign.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: Per maximum quantity requirements for
permanent wall signs.
         (c)   Maximum area: Up to 100% of a permanent wall sign.
         (d)   Maximum height: Per maximum height for permanent wall sign.
         (e)   Other limitations:
            1.   Only static messages are allowed which are placed text or
electronic messages.
            2.   No scrolling, flashing, or cyclical changing of electronic
messages is permitted.
      (4)   Permanent hanging sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one per tenant.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: ten square feet.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: ten square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is two feet.
            2.   No part of the sign shall be less than nine feet above ground
level.
            3.   Top of sign may not be located more than 15 feet above ground
level.
         (e)   Other limitations: Sign shall not be illuminated.
      (5)   Permanent mural sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: one sign per facade, maximum two
signs per building.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: one sign per tenant, maximum of three
separate signs.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 65 square feet; and
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: 50 square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is four feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 16 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Other limitations: No part of the sign may extend above the
eaves of the roof or be mounted on the roof.
      (6)   Permanent projecting sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one per tenant.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 15 square feet; and
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: ten square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is ten feet.
            2.   No part of the sign shall be less than nine feet above ground
level.
            3.   Top of sign may not be located more than 15 feet above ground
level.
         (e)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of the sign may protrude more than 18 inches from the
wall it is attached.
            2.   No part of the sign may extend above the eaves of the roof or
be mounted on the roof.
      (7)   Permanent unified development sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For multi-tenant developments with at least five separate
tenants and 12,000 sq. ft. of space that can be occupied in the building.
            2.   These signs are permitted in addition to all other permanent
signs permitted within the development.
         (b)   Types:
            1.   Multi-tenant monument sign:
               a.   Maximum quantity: one sign is permitted at the primary
entrance to the development.
               b.   Maximum area:
                  i.   Twenty-five square feet per side.
                  ii.   Maximum single tenant area is five square feet per
side.
               c.   Maximum height: four feet above ground level.
               d.   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall
be landscaped as follows:
                  i.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped
with living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or
rock) and maintained in good condition at all times.
                  ii.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least
50% of the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond
all faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
                  iii.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish
material such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
            2.   Wayfinding signs:
               a.   Maximum quantity: one per curb cut from a public street
into the development.
               b.   Maximum area: two square feet.
               c.   Maximum height: three feet above ground level.
               d.   Other limitations: Signs shall contain language or icons to
guide pedestrians or motor vehicles into, out of, or around a development.
      (8)   Permanent wall sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: one sign per facade, maximum two
signs per building.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: one sign per tenant, maximum of three
separate signs.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 60 square feet.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: 40 square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is four feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 16 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of the sign may protrude more than eight inches from
the wall it is attached.
            2.   No part of the sign may extend above the eaves of the roof or
be mounted on the roof.
            3.   All signs in a multi-tenant structure must be consistent in
type (i.e. reverse channel, or box) and be mounted consistently on the facade
of the building in order to create a uniform appearance.
      (9)   Permanent window sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: two.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: one per tenant.
         (c)   Maximum area: 20 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height: Maximum height of sign is four feet.
         (e)   Other limitations: None.
   (C)   Temporary signs. The following signs are permitted as temporary signs
and are subject to the time, placement, and development standards described for
each type of sign respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Temporary banner sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, but the event
shall not to exceed seven consecutive days or 14 total days in any calendar
year. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event and
must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer exists.
         (c)   Placement; signs must be placed in window or affixed to an
entrance door.
         (d)   Maximum quantity: one per tenant.
         (e)   Maximum area: four square feet.
         (f)   Maximum height: seven feet above ground level.
         (g)   Permit required: Yes. Each new sign or the posting/relocation of
an existing sign requires a new permit.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
      (2)   Temporary marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only.
            2.   Lot must have at least 300 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: 60 per 300 feet of road frontage.
         (d)   Maximum area: four square feet per side.
         (e)   Maximum height: eight feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: ten feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
§ 155.101 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Overall district sign regulations.
      (1)   Sign regulations for permanent and temporary signs in the GC, HC,
GI and LI Districts.
 
SIGN REGULATIONS FOR PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIGNS IN THE GC, HC, GI AND LI
DISTRICTS
Cumulative      Cumulative      Maximum
Total of        Total of        Cumulative Area                 Prohibited
Permanent Signs Temporary Signs of Permanent    Permitted Signs Signs
Permitted On    Permitted On    Signs (square
Site            Site            feet)
                                                Permanent
                                                signs:
                                                Awning          Banner
                                                Changeable copy Bench sign
                                Single-tenant   Hanging         Billboard
1 per 200 feet                  structure:      Monument sign   Electronic
of road         1 per tenant    200 square feet Mural           Inflatable
frontage        (unless                        Unified         Marker sign
(unless         otherwise                      development     Off-premise
otherwise       stated by sign  Multi-tenant    Wall sign       Pole
stated by sign  type)           structure:      Window          Portable
type)                           100 square feet Wayfinding      Projecting
                                per tenant                     Roof
                                                Temporary       Vehicle
                                                signs:           
                                                Banner
                                                Marker sign
                                                Monument sign
 
      (2)   Illumination. All illuminated signs shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights, nor
shall any device be utilized which has a changing light intensity, brightness
of color, or give such illusion.
         (b)   All illuminating elements shall be kept in satisfactory working
condition and repaired or replaced if damaged or inoperable within 14 days or
as soon as possible if circumstances (e.g. weather or product availability) do
not allow.
         (c)   The direct or reflected light from a primary light source shall
not create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public and/or
private roadways and parking lots.
         (d)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded,
shielded, or directed such that the light intensity or brightness does not
interfere with safety or visibility and does not project onto any adjacent
property. No exposed light source is permitted.
         (e)   Neon light elements may be used for internal illumination and/or
when permitted otherwise in this chapter.
   (B)   Permanent signs. The following signs are permitted as permanent signs
and are subject to the development standards described for each type of sign
respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Permanent awning sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: none.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 30 square feet.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: 20 square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is three feet.
            2.   No part of the awning shall be less than nine feet above
ground level.
            3.   Top of awning sign may not be located more than is feet above
ground level.
         (e)   Other limitations: Sign shall not be illuminated by back-
lighting.
      (2)   Permanent changeable copy sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: Must be an integral part of a permanent monument
sign.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: Per maximum quantity requirements for
permanent monument signs and permanent wall signs respectively.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Monument sign: May not exceed 80% of the area of the permanent
monument sign.
            2.   Wall sign: Up to 100% of a permanent wall sign.
         (d)   Maximum height: Per maximum height for permanent monument signs
and permanent wall signs respectively.
         (e)   Setback: Per setback requirements for permanent monument signs.
         (f)   Landscaping: Per landscaping requirements for permanent monument
signs.
         (g)   Other limitations:
            1.   Only static messages are allowed which are placed text or
electronic messages.
            2.   No scrolling, flashing, or cyclical changing of electronic
messages is permitted.
      (3)   Permanent electronic sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: Must be an integral part of a permanent monument
sign.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: Per maximum quantity requirements for
permanent monument signs and permanent wall signs respectively.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Monument sign: May not exceed 80% of the area of the permanent
monument sign.
            2.   Wall sign: Up to 100% of a permanent wall sign.
         (d)   Maximum height: Per maximum height for permanent monument signs
and permanent wall signs respectively.
         (e)   Setback: Per setback requirements for permanent monument signs.
         (f)   Landscaping: Per landscaping requirements for permanent monument
signs.
         (g)   Other limitations:
            1.   Only static messages are allowed which are placed text or
electronic messages.
            2.   No scrolling, flashing, or cyclical changing of electronic
messages is permitted.
      (4)   Permanent hanging sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one per tenant.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: ten square feet.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: ten square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is two feet.
            2.   No part of the sign shall be less than nine feet above ground
level.
            3.   Top of sign may not be located more than 15 feet above ground
level.
         (e)   Other limitations: Sign shall not be illuminated.
      (5)   Permanent marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only.
            2.   Lot must have at least 500 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Maximum quantity: one sign.
         (c)   Maximum area: 16 square feet per side.
         (d)   Maximum height: 12 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations: none.
      (6)   Permanent monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Frontage on one public street: one.
            2.   Frontage on two or more public streets: one per frontage,
maximum two signs.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 60 square feet per side.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: see permanent unified development
standards below.
         (d)   Maximum height: six feet above ground level.
         (e)   Setback: ten feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (f)   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall be
landscaped as follows:
            1.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped with
living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or rock) and
maintained in good condition at all times.
            2.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least 50% of
the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond all
faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
            3.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish material
such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
         (g)   Other limitations: No two signs shall be within 100 feet of one
another.
      (7)   Permanent mural sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: one sign per facade, maximum two
signs per building.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: one sign per tenant, maximum of three
separate signs.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 65 square feet.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: 50 square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is four feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 16 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Other limitations: No part of the sign may extend above the
eaves of the roof or be mounted on the roof.
      (8)   Permanent unified development sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For multi-tenant developments with at least six separate
tenants and 12,000 sq. ft. of space that can be occupied in the building.
            2.   These signs are permitted in addition to all other permanent
signs permitted within the development.
         (b)   Types:
            1.   Multi-tenant monument sign:
               a.   Maximum quantity: one sign is permitted at the primary
entrance to the development.
               b.   Maximum area:
                  i.   100 square feet per side.
                  ii.   Maximum single tenant area is 30 square feet per side.
               c.   Maximum height: six feet above ground level.
               d.   Landscaping: The permanent base for a monument sign shall
be landscaped as follows:
                  i.   The base of the sign shall be effectively landscaped
with living plant material or hardscape material (i.e. decorative brick or
rock) and maintained in good condition at ail times.
                  ii.   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to at least
50% of the total sign face area (cumulative of both sides), and extend beyond
ail faces or supporting structures in all directions. The landscaped area shall
include all points where sign structural supports attach to the ground.
                  iii.   Exposed foundations must be covered with a finish
material such as brick, stone, or wood, or be screened with vegetation.
            2.   Wayfinding signs:
               a.   Maximum quantity: one per curb cut from a public street
into the development.
               b.   Maximum area: four square feet.
               c.   Maximum height: three feet above ground level.
               d.   Other limitations: Signs shall contain language or icons to
guide pedestrians or motor vehicles into, out of, or around a development.
      (9)   Permanent wall sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: one sign per facade, maximum two
signs per building.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: one sign per tenant, maximum of three
separate signs.
         (c)   Maximum area:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: 90 square feet.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: 50 square feet per tenant.
         (d)   Maximum height:
            1.   Maximum height of sign is six feet.
            2.   Sign may not be located more than 20 feet above ground level.
         (e)   Other limitations:
            1.   No part of the sign may protrude more than 12 inches from the
wall it is attached.
            2.   No part of the sign may extend above the eaves of the roof or
be mounted on the roof.
            3.   All signs in a multi-tenant structure must be consistent in
type (i.e. reverse channel, or box) and be mounted consistently on the facade
of the building in order to create a uniform appearance.
      (10)   Permanent window sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Single-tenant structure: two.
            2.   Multi-tenant structure: one per tenant.
         (c)   Maximum area: 20 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height: Maximum height of sign is four feet.
         (e)   Other limitations: None.
   (C)   Temporary signs. The following signs are permitted as temporary signs
and are subject to the time, placement, and development standards described for
each type of sign respectively. All other types of signs are prohibited.
      (1)   Temporary banner sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: None.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, but the event
shall not to exceed seven consecutive days or 14 total days in any calendar
year. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event and
must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer exists.
         (c)   Placement: signs must be placed in window or affixed to an
entrance door.
         (d)   Maximum quantity: one per tenant.
         (e)   Maximum area: four square feet.
         (f)   Maximum height: seven feet above ground level.
         (g)   Permit required: Yes. Each new sign or the posting/relocation of
an existing sign requires a new permit.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
      (2)   Temporary marker sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites:
            1.   For agricultural uses only.
            2.   Lot must have at least 300 feet of road frontage.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity: 60 per 300 feet of road frontage.
         (d)   Maximum area: four square feet per side.
         (e)   Maximum height: eight feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: ten feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: no.
         (h)   Other limitations: None.
      (3)   Temporary monument sign standards.
         (a)   Prerequisites: for single-tenant structures only.
         (b)   Duration: For the duration of the temporary event, not to exceed
seven days. The sign may be posted up to five days prior to the temporary event
and must be taken down within seven days after the sign's purpose no longer
exists.
         (c)   Maximum quantity:
            1.   Frontage on one public street: one.
            2.   Frontage on two or more public streets: one per frontage,
maximum two signs.
         (d)   Maximum area: five square feet per side.
         (e)   Maximum height: four feet above ground level.
         (f)   Setback: five feet from right-of-way or sidewalk, whichever is
farthest.
         (g)   Permit required: Yes. Each new sign or the posting/relocation of
an existing sign requires a new permit.
         (h)   Other limitations:
            1.   Sign cannot be located on any public sidewalk.
            2.   Sign may not be permanently affixed to the ground.
            3.   Sign must be at least 15 feet from any other sign on the
property.
            4.   Sign must be at least 80 feet from all other temporary signs
on the property.
§ 155.102 STORAGE.
   (A)   Bulk storage. In any district, structures, buildings or above ground
tanks, used for bulk storage of flammable or explosive liquids, gases or other
materials, shall not be located closer than 50 feet to the property line.
Additional information regarding evidence of safety measures may be required in
order to determine the public safety therein.
   (B)   Outside storage. A landscape contractor located in an agricultural
district may store equipment and materials used in the business on the property
as long as the equipment and non-plant materials are stored in an enclosed
structure and no retail sales occur on the property.
§ 155.103 STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Primary structures; orientation.
      (1)   All new construction of any building or structure, or renovation of
or addition to an existing building or structure, shall be rear loading if said
building or structure is located on a lot or lots adjacent to a major
thoroughfare and the building or structure is not separated from the major
thoroughfare by another buildable lot. The front elevation of said building or
structure shall face the major thoroughfare.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(1) above, all new construction
of a building or structure, or renovation or addition to an existing building
or structure, shall require the front doorway of the building or structure to
be oriented to the front elevation of the building or structure which shall
face the nearest improved road.
   (B)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures shall be permitted in all
zoning districts provided the following requirements have been met.
      (1)   Orientation. Detached garages and secondary structures shall be
accepted from being oriented toward a major thoroughfare.
      (2)   Timing of construction. Accessory structures shall secure an ILP
and shall not be erected prior to the primary structure, except for structures
used for agricultural purposes as defined under "agriculture" in §
155.220 General Definitions.
      (3)   Subordination. Accessory structures shall be clearly subordinate in
height, area, bulk extent, and purpose to the primary structure.
      (4)   Permits not required. The following accessory structures are
permitted in all districts and may be installed in any required yard without an
ILP:
         (a)   Structures exclusively for agricultural purposes, landscape
vegetation, swing sets, children's tree houses, bird baths, bird houses, curbs,
lamp posts, mail boxes, name plates, utility installations for local services,
retaining walls, walks, drainage installations, housing for domestic pets
provided it is not for profit and does not constitute a "kennel" as defined in
§
155.220 General Definitions.
         (b)   Wireless communications facilities are permitted in all
districts and may be installed without an ILP provided they are co-located upon
an existing or pre-approved wireless communication facility, or they are no
taller than 15 feet and visually integrated or camouflaged against a structure
other than another antenna.
      (5)   Permits required. The following accessory structures are permitted
in all zoning districts and require an ILP certifying that all applicable
requirements of the ordinance have been met.
         (a)   Fences, walls, and hedges may be up to six feet in height and
are permitted in any side yard or rear yard. Wooden picket fences shall be
built with the structural side, including all structural members, braces,
bolts, washers/nuts, etc. facing the interior of the property. In all zoning
districts, unless otherwise specified herein, fences may be constructed along
property lines so long as the fence does not encroach on town or public right-
of-way. In the event that the property line falls along or near a sidewalk or
access point, the fence will be a minimum of six inches from the edge of the
sidewalk or access point. This will require each property to undergo a
retracement survey before installation and will require the permit applicant to
submit these documents to the Building Commissioner/Zoning Administrator prior
to approval. For front and side yard, fences will continue to follow the same
height requirements, design standards, and sight line requirements as specified
in the UDO.
            1.   SF District: No fence, wall, or hedge shall be permitted in a
required front yard that exceeds three feet in height.
            2.   AG, MR, MF, HC, GC, TWN Districts: No fence, wall, or hedge
shall be permitted in a required front yard that exceeds six feet in height.
            3.   GI and LI Districts: No fence, wall, or hedge shall be
permitted in a required front yard that exceeds eight feet in height.
         (b)   Buildings such as garages, carports, enclosed patios, bath
houses, gazebos, cabanas, greenhouses, storage sheds, stables, and other
structures over 120 square feet in area. In all zoning districts, unless
otherwise specified herein, accessory structures used for storage or parking
may be constructed along property lines so long as the structure does not
encroach on town or public right-of-way. In the event that the property line
falls along or near a sidewalk or access point, the accessory structure will be
a minimum of six inches from the edge of the sidewalk or access point. This
will require each property to undergo a retracement survey before installation
and will require the permit applicant to submit these documents to the Building
Commissioner/Zoning Administrator prior to approval. For front and side yard,
accessory structures will continue to follow the same height requirements,
design standards, and sight line requirements as specified in the UDO.
         (c)   Home occupation structures in accordance with this chapter.
         (d)   Swimming pools subject to a five foot high fence placement
around the swimming pool area and/or a mechanical pool cover over the swimming
pool. No swimming pool permitted in front yard. This shall not apply to wading
pools.
         (e)   Signs as set forth in this chapter.
         (f)   Antennas and amateur radio towers over 30 feet in height
measured from the roofline.
         (g)   Parking spaces.
   (C)   Structure height. All buildings hereafter shall comply with the height
regulations of the district in which it is located, with the exception of the
following:
      (1)   An agricultural structure may be erected or changed to any height
necessary for its operation.
      (2)   Spires and church steeples may be erected or changed to any height
that is not otherwise prohibited.
   (D)   Structures relocated. No buildings or structures shall be moved from
one lot or premises to another unless such buildings conform to the regulations
of the district to which such building shall be moved and an ILP has been
secured.
   (E)   Residential structures.
      (1)   Residential structure conversions. Structures originally designed
for occupancy by two families or less converted to occupancy by more than two
families shall secure an ILP. Such structures shall show no evidence of change
to indicate the extra dwelling units. All fire escapes or stairways leading to
a second or higher floor shall be completely enclosed within the converted
building.
      (2)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Permanent placement. Manufactured homes shall be permitted
provided the following requirements and limitations are met:
            1.   The manufactured home is built to the manufactured home
construction and safety standards (HUD Code) and displays a red certification
label on the exterior of each transportable section.
            2.   The development standards for the respective zoning districts
shall be met;
            3.   The minimum area of a structure shall conform with the square
footage requirements established in §§
155.065 through
155.078 Zoning Districts.
            4.   The structure shall be attached and anchored to a permanent
foundation in conformance with the appropriate building code and with
manufacturer's installation specifications;
            5.   The entire area between the floor joists of the structure and
the underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with a permanent perimeter
enclosure constructed in accordance with the terms of the appropriate building
code; the manufacturer's installation specifications; and requirements set
forth by the Indiana Administrative Building Council;
            6.   The structure shall possess all necessary building, water, and
sewage disposal permits prior to placement of the structure upon the lot;
            7.   The wheels, axles, and hitches shall be removed;
            8.   The structure shall be covered with an exterior material
customarily used on site-built structures;
            9.   The roof of the structure shall be shingled and pitched,
rather than flat;
            10.   In areas outside of a manufactured home park, the following
standards are established to ensure that the structure is compatible with
surrounding conventional construction: (a) A manufactured home shall be no more
than seven years of age. (b) A manufactured home shall have a width of no less
than 18 feet unless replacement is permitted as set forth in division (c),
below. (c) A manufactured home may be replaced with a manufactured home of
equal or larger size upon proper request to the Zoning Administrator, if, and
only if: (1) the replacement manufactured home is no more than seven years of
age at the time of replacement; (2) the Zoning Administrator confirms that the
replacement manufactured home meets all other requirements for manufactured
homes set forth in the Unified Development Ordinance and/or any other
requirements pursuant to state or federal law; and (3) the existing structure
is replaced within 90 days of its removal;
            11.   A manufactured home or mobile home that is vacant and/or does
not have utilities for a period of six month or more shall be deemed as
noncompliant and must be removed within 90 days after it is deemed to be
noncompliant by the Zoning Administrator or a representative designated by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Temporary residential occupancy.
            1.   Permitted for occupancy.
               a.   During construction. In all zoning districts, an ILP may be
issued for the temporary occupancy of a manufactured home, to a person
intending to build a permanent residence on the property. The ILP for temporary
placement and occupancy of the manufactured home is for issued a period of one
year and may be renewed for an additional one-year period if construction of
the dwelling has started but has not been completed.
               b.   Health issue. An ILP may be issued to an applicant whose
own health or the health of another necessitates care, and where the facts show
that an unnecessary hardship would occur If not permitted to temporarily locate
a manufactured home for occupancy adjacent to the residence of someone who is
able to provide such care or in need of such care. The ILP would be valid for
the lifetime of the person needing care and is renewable annually from the date
of issuance.
            2.   Regulations. The following regulations shall apply to the
temporary occupancy of a manufactured home:
               a.   The manufactured home is built to the manufactured home
construction and safety standards (HUD Code) and displays a red certification
label on the exterior of each transportable section.
               b.   The structure is to be located on the same property as an
existing residence or located on property on which a permanent residence with a
valid ILP is intended to be built.
               c.   The structure should be served by the same address, water
supply, and sewage facilities serving the existing residence or the residence
under construction. If the existing residence utilizes a septic system,
approval shall be subject to the Orange County Board of Health.
               d.   The structure shall remain on its wheels and shall not be
placed on a permanent foundation.
               e.   Applicable front, side, and rear yard regulations of the
district in which it is located are to be observed.
               f.   Occupancy of the structure is restricted to immediate
family, persons employed in the care of the property owner (employed on the
premises of the property owner) or the owner of the property who intends to
construct a permanent residence.
               g.   The structure used for temporary occupancy shall have a
ground floor area greater than 500 square feet.
               h.   The manufactured home shall be tied down as per the
requirements of the one and two-family dwelling code or the manufacturer's
recommendation.
               i.   The perimeter of the manufactured home shall be completely
enclosed except for access and ventilation openings. The perimeter enclosure
may consist of skirting materials installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's installation specifications and secured as necessary to provide
stability, minimize vibrations, and minimize susceptibility to wind damage and
to provide adequate insulation to protect exposed piping. Perimeter enclosures
other than skirting shall meet requirements of the one and two-family dwelling
code and the requirements set forth by the Indiana Administrative Building
Council.
            3.   Permanent residential occupancy. Manufactured homes may be
permanently occupied when located in a district where a single-family dwelling
is permitted by right or approved by special exception.
   (F)   Commercial structures. Reserved.
   (G)   Industrial structures. Contractor's offices, manufactured homes,
trailers, or vans may be utilized as contractor's offices, watchman's shelters,
or tool and equipment storage on the project site and only during the period of
construction. The ILP would be valid for six months and may be renewed for up
to an additional six months if necessary if construction has not concluded.
   (H)   Other structures. Trash receptacles in any district, non-pedestrian
outdoor trash receptacles used for non-agricultural or non-residential uses
shall be completely screened from view by the use of either solid fencing or
evergreen vegetation. Such receptacles shall not be visible from the street
front or any adjacent residential use during any time of the year.
   (I)   Animal restrictions. The UDO incorporates the provisions set forth in
Title IX,
Chapter 90 (Animals), of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Paoli, Indiana,
which may be amended from time to time by the Town Council of the Town of
Paoli.
   (J)   Standards on solar power systems.
      (1)   SOLAR POWER SYSTEMS. An electric power system designed to supply
usable solar power by means of photovoltaics. This definition includes without
limitation: solar panels.
      (2)   Roof-mounted solar power systems (located on the roof of a lawfully
established structure) are authorized in all zoning districts so long as said
solar power system does not protrude excessively from the roof of the
structure, cause a blight to the community as determined by the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee, a permit is obtained, and all listed
standards herein are followed.
      (3)   Roof-mounted solar power systems may be placed on the primary or
accessory structure if authorized herein.
      (4)   Solar power systems shall only be installed by authorized
installers/companies that meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Must be in good standing with the Better Business Bureau.
         (b)   Must carry business insurance.
         (c)   Must be well-versed in the installation and operation of solar
power systems.
         (d)   Any other criteria as deemed by the Zoning Administrator for
safe installation and operation.
      (5)   Solar power systems shall not be personally installed by the
property owner unless the property owner meets the above-mentioned criteria and
to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Property owners shall enter into an interconnection agreement with
the Town of Paoli before completion of the solar power system installation.
      (7)   Any solar power system that has been abandoned, meaning it has not
been in operation for a period of 12 months or more, or is defective or unsafe
in any manner as determined by the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee,
the Paoli Electric Department, and/or IMPA Metering Technician/Professional
Engineer, shall be removed or repaired by the property owner within 30 days
after receiving notice. If not removed or repaired within 30 days to the full
satisfaction of the above-listed persons, then the Town of Paoli, Indiana, may
pursue legal action to have the system removed at the property owner’s expense.
      (8)   Should the solar power system be deemed an immediate fire safety
hazard or risk hazard as determined by the Zoning Administrator or his or her
designee, Paoli Electric Department, and/or IMPA Metering Technician/
Professional Engineer, the Zoning Administrator may take immediate action to
have the problem corrected as the Zoning Administrator deems fit. This includes
but is not limited to complete removal of the solar power system at the
property owner’s expense.
(Am. Res. 2023-01, passed 2-7-23)
USE STANDARDS
§ 155.115 GENERAL.
   (A)   Primary uses. No building or land shall be used, and no building shall
be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered, which is used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted and specified in a district in
which such building or land is located, and which is in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary uses. Temporary uses shall be permitted in all zoning
districts subject to approval by the Administrator provided that the use will
not detrimentally affect the health, welfare, safety, or morals of the
neighborhood under consideration for such use. Other uses deemed temporary by
the BZA are subject to all conditions the BZA may deem necessary.
      (1)   The following are general provisions that must be met before
approval:
         (a)   The duration of a permit is stated herein, however, the
Administrator may renew such permit for a use in 30-day increments if so
requested.
         (b)   Temporary uses shall be subject to all of the regulations of the
applicable zoning district.
         (c)   Adequate access and off-street parking facilities shall be
provided.
         (d)   Public address systems shall not be used in areas of
concentrated residential development.
         (e)   Floodlights and other lighting shall be directed upon the
premises and shall not be detrimental to adjoining properties.
         (f)   Signs shall not flash or blink or resemble traffic and emergency
warning signals.
         (g)   Upon termination, the lot shall be put in a clean condition
devoid of trash and remnants of the temporary use.
      (2)   The following are permitted temporary uses subject to the issuance
of an ILP and a certificate of occupancy.
         (a)   Temporary office;
         (b)   Model home; or
         (c)   Model apartment.
      (3)   The following are permitted temporary uses subject to the issuance
of an ILP.
         (a)   Incidental signs on the same property, necessary for the sale,
rental, or lease of property.
         (b)   Announcement signs necessary to explain the character of a
building enterprise for a maximum of 18 months.
         (c)   Manufactured homes or mobile homes as emergency shelters when
needed until construction or emergency ends.
         (d)   Other uses deemed temporary by the BZA are subject to all
conditions the BZA may deem necessary.
      (4)   The following are permitted temporary uses that do not require an
ILP or certificate of occupancy. Parking area designated for a special event
for a maximum of 30 days.
§ 155.116 CEMETERY OR CREMATORY.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: five acres.
      (2)   A lot on which the restricted use is located may not be smaller in
area than the area prescribed for that use.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Minimum front setback: The minimum front setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   Minimum side setback: The minimum side setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (3)   Minimum rear setback: The minimum rear setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (4)   Setbacks for the restricted use shall include necessary
bufferyards. If a setback is not listed, then the standard setback and
bufferyard for the zoning district shall apply.
   (C)   Separation from residential districts.
      (1)   Minimum distance from a residential district: The standard building
setback for the zoning district shall apply.
      (2)   The restricted use may not be located closer to residential
districts than the distance shown, which will include necessary bufferyards.
Similarly, residential development shall not be placed closer than the distance
shown.
   (D)   Landscaping and bufferyards.
      (1)   Required bufferyards.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: The standard landscaping and
bufferyard requirement for the zoning district shall apply.
         (b)   The restricted use shall provide the bufferyards required at the
discretion of the PPC or BZA and shall meet the size requirements specified
within five years after installation.
      (2)   Bufferyards abutting residential uses.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: Bufferyard E + Fence F2.
         (b)   Bufferyards shall be installed to block the specific restricted
use from adjacent residential uses. Screen plantings shall be effective during
all seasons and shall meet the size requirements specified within five years
after installation. A variance may be granted from the requirements of this
section by the BZA.
   (E)   Access to primary or secondary streets.
      (1)   Maximum number of entrances: two.
      (2)   This standard does not apply to entrances for emergency use only.
      (3)   As used in this section the term "entrance" means a passageway
generally 30 feet wide from a premises to a thoroughfare by which vehicles
enter or leave.
§ 155.117 CONFINED FEEDING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: The standard minimum lot area for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   A lot on which the restricted use is located may not be smaller in
area than the area prescribed for that use.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Minimum front setback: The minimum front setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   Minimum side setback: The minimum side setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (3)   Minimum rear setback: The minimum rear setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (4)   Setbacks for the restricted use shall include necessary
bufferyards. If a setback is not listed, then the standard setback and
bufferyard for the zoning district shall apply.
   (C)   Separation from residential districts.
      (1)   Minimum distance from a residential district: 1,320 feet or 0.25
miles.
      (2)   The restricted use may not be located closer to residential
districts than the distance shown, which will include necessary bufferyards.
Similarly, residential development shall not be placed closer than the distance
shown.
   (D)   Landscaping and bufferyards.
      (1)   Required bufferyards.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: The standard landscaping and
bufferyard requirement for the zoning district shall apply.
         (b)   The restricted use shall provide the bufferyards required at the
discretion of the PPC or BZA and shall meet the size requirements specified
within five years after installation.
      (2)   Bufferyards abutting residential uses.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: The standard landscaping and
bufferyards requirement for the zoning district between residential uses shall
apply.
         (b)   Bufferyards shall be installed to block the specific restricted
use from adjacent residential uses. Screen plantings shall be effective during
all seasons and shall meet the size requirements specified within five years
after installation. A variance may be granted from the requirements of this
section by the BZA.
   (E)   Access to primary or secondary streets.
      (1)   Maximum number of entrances: The number of entrances is not
restricted.
      (2)   This standard does not apply to entrances for emergency use only.
      (3)   As used in this section the term "entrance" means a passageway
generally 30 feet wide from a premises to a thoroughfare by which vehicles
enter or leave.
§ 155.118 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Home occupations.
      (1)   A home occupation shall be permitted when said occupation conducted
on residentially used premises is considered customary and traditional,
incidental to the principal use of the premises as a residence, and not
construed as a business. Permitted home occupations shall not adversely affect
the residential character of the district or interfere with the reasonable
enjoyment of adjoining properties. Permitted home occupations shall be of a
personal service nature limited to domestic crafts and professional service.
      (2)   Permitted types of home occupations.
 
PERMITTED TYPES OF HOME OCCUPATIONS
                                      Domestic crafts, dressmaking, millinery,
                                      sewing, weaving, tailoring, ironing,
Permitted uses                        washing, custom home furnishings work,
                                      carpentry work, furniture repair, hair
                                      grooming.
                                      Law, medicine, architecture, engineering,
                                      accounting, planning, real estate,
Permitted uses, but limited to advice insurance, notary public, manufacturer's
and consultation                      agent, clergy, writing, music, painting,
                                      photography, academic tutoring, outdoor
                                      instructional studio for one student at a
                                      time.
                                      Real estate office, insurance office,
                                      clinic, doctor's office, dress shop,
                                      millinery shop, funeral home, bed and
                                      breakfast, outdoor instructional studios
Prohibited uses                       for more than one student at a time, day
                                      care center, animal hospital, kennel,
                                      trailer rental, and all uses associated
                                      with vehicle dealers, repair, and
                                      services.
 
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   The primary use of the primary structure or dwelling unit shall
remain residential and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a
resident in the dwelling unit.
      (2)   A home occupation and all activities and materials related to such
occupation may be permitted in a single accessory structure provided that such
structure is subordinate to the primary residence in terms of height, setback,
area, and bulk and compatible with the primary residence in terms of materials.
      (3)   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur, and he shall not employ any other person other than a member of
the immediate family residing in the residence and one non-family member.
      (4)   No structural additions, enlargements, or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance to a business appearance shall be
permitted.
      (5)   No more than 25% of the floor area of any one story of the dwelling
unit shall be devoted to such home occupation.
      (6)   Outside storage of machinery, equipment, or materials shall not be
permitted.
      (7)   No additional and separate entrance incongruent with the
residential structural design shall be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation.
      (8)   No provision for more than two extra off-street parking or loading
facilities, other than the requirements and permitted facilities of the zone
district, shall be permitted. No part of a minimum required setback distance
shall be used for off-street parking or loading facilities, and no additional
driveway to serve such home occupations shall be permitted.
      (9)   No display of goods or external evidence of the home occupation
shall be permitted, except for signs in accordance with §
155.096.
      (10)   No stock in trade or commodities, other than those prepared,
produced, or created on the premises by the operator of the home occupation,
shall be kept or sold on the premises.
      (11)   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local
radio communications and television reception, or cause fluctuation in line
voltage off the premises.
§ 155.119 JUNK YARD.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: ten acres.
      (2)   A lot on which the restricted use is located may not be smaller in
area than the area prescribed for that use.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Minimum front setback: 100 feet.
      (2)   Minimum side setback: 100 feet.
      (3)   Minimum rear setback: 100 feet.
      (4)   Setbacks for the restricted use shall include necessary
bufferyards. If a setback is not listed, then the standard setback and
bufferyard for the zoning district shall apply.
   (C)   Separation from residential districts.
      (1)   Minimum distance from a residential district: 1,320 feet or 0.25
miles.
      (2)   The restricted use may not be located closer to residential
districts than the distance shown, which will include necessary bufferyards.
Similarly, residential development shall not be placed closer than the distance
shown.
   (D)   Landscaping and bufferyards.
      (1)   Required bufferyards.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: Bufferyard E + Fence F2.
         (b)   The restricted use shall provide the bufferyards required at the
discretion of the PPC or BZA and shall meet the size requirements specified
within five years after installation.
      (2)   Bufferyards abutting residential uses.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: The standard landscaping and
bufferyards requirement for the zoning district between residential uses shall
apply.
         (b)   Bufferyards shall be installed to block the specific restricted
use from adjacent residential uses. Screen plantings shall be effective during
all seasons and shall meet the size requirements specified within five years
after installation. A variance may be granted from the requirements of this
section by the BZA.
   (E)   Access to primary or secondary streets.
      (1)   Maximum number of entrances: one.
      (2)   This standard does not apply to entrances for emergency use only.
      (3)   As used in this section the term "entrance" means a passageway
generally 30 feet wide from a premises to a thoroughfare by which vehicles
enter or leave.
§ 155.120 KENNELS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: three acres.
      (2)   A lot on which the restricted use is located may not be smaller in
area than the area prescribed for that use.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Minimum front setback: The minimum front setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   Minimum side setback: The minimum side setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (3)   Minimum rear setback: The minimum rear setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (4)   Setbacks for the restricted use shall include necessary
bufferyards. If a setback is not listed, then the standard setback and
bufferyard for the zoning district shall apply.
   (C)   Separation from residential districts.
      (1)   Minimum distance from a residential district: The standard building
setback for the zoning district shall apply.
      (2)   The restricted use may not be located closer to residential
districts than the distance shown, which will include necessary bufferyards.
Similarly, residential development shall not be placed closer than the distance
shown.
   (D)   Landscaping and bufferyards.
      (1)   Required bufferyards.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: The standard landscaping and
bufferyard requirement for the zoning district shall apply.
         (b)   The restricted use shall provide the bufferyards required at the
discretion of the PPC or BZA and shall meet the size requirements specified
within five years after installation.
      (2)   Bufferyards abutting residential uses.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: Bufferyard E + Fence F2.
         (b)   Bufferyards shall be installed to block the specific restricted
use from adjacent residential uses. Screen plantings shall be effective during
all seasons and shall meet the size requirements specified within five years
after installation. A variance may be granted from the requirements of this
section by the BZA.
   (E)   Access to primary or secondary streets.
      (1)   Maximum number of entrances: one.
      (2)   This standard does not apply to entrances for emergency use only.
      (3)   As used in this section the term "entrance" means a passageway
generally 30 feet wide from a premises to a thoroughfare by which vehicles
enter or leave.
§ 155.121 MOBILE HOME PARK.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: five acres for the entire park project.
      (2)   A lot on which the restricted use is located may not be smaller in
area than the area prescribed for that use.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Minimum front setback: The minimum front setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   Minimum side setback: The minimum front setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (3)   Minimum rear setback: The minimum front setback for the zoning
district shall apply.
      (4)   Setbacks for the restricted use shall include necessary
bufferyards. If a setback is not listed, then the standard setback and
bufferyard for the zoning district shall apply.
   (C)   Separation from residential districts.
      (1)   Minimum distance from a residential district: The standard building
setback for the zoning district shall apply.
      (2)   The restricted use may not be located closer to residential
districts than the distance shown, which will include necessary bufferyards.
Similarly, residential development shall not be placed closer than the distance
shown.
   (D)   Landscaping and bufferyards.
      (1)   Required bufferyards.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: The standard landscaping and
bufferyard requirement for the zoning district shall apply.
         (b)   The restricted use shall provide the bufferyards required at the
discretion of the PPC or BZA and shall meet the size requirements specified
within five years after installation.
      (2)   Bufferyards abutting residential uses.
         (a)   Minimum bufferyard required: The standard landscaping and
bufferyards requirement for the zoning district between residential uses shall
apply.
         (b)   Bufferyards shall be installed to block the specific restricted
use from adjacent residential uses. Screen plantings shall be effective during
all seasons and shall meet the size requirements specified within five years
after installation. A variance may be granted from the requirements of this
section by the BZA.
   (E)   Access to primary or secondary streets.
      (1)   Maximum number of entrances: The number of entrances is not
restricted.
      (2)   This standard does not apply to entrances for emergency use only.
      (3)   As used in this section the term "entrance" means a passageway
generally 30 feet wide from a premises to a thoroughfare by which vehicles
enter or leave.
   (F)   Performance standards. Mobile homes may be permanently occupied when
located in a mobile home park. Such mobile home parks require development plan
approval and shall be developed in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter. Mobile homes for permanent occupancy shall have the following
requirements:
      (1)   The placement of any mobile home requires an ILP.
      (2)   No electric lines shall pass over any mobile home.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be skirted prior to being occupied.
      (4)   When applicable by the terms of this chapter, accessory structures
for storage on individual sites are subject to all applicable setback
requirements and require an ILP.
      (5)   Driveways shall be provided on the site where necessary for
convenient access to service entrances of buildings, to delivery and collection
points for refuse and other material, and elsewhere as needed.
      (6)   Resident parking shall be provided either on the trailer site or in
common parking facilities, and shall be designed so as not to interfere with
pedestrian walkways and to allow adequate space for visitor parking either
along the street or in common parking areas.
      (7)   Walkways.
         (a)   Where possible, walkways leading to frequently used public
facilities should be through interior areas removed from the vicinity of
streets. Public pedestrian sidewalks should be at least four feet in width and
paved with a suitable material for use in all weather conditions.
         (b)   Individual walkways shall be provided from a public walkway,
street, or parking area to the individual mobile home stands. These walkways
shall be at least 18 inches in width and should be paved with a suitable
material for use in all weather conditions.
      (8)   Covenants. Covenants shall be submitted and recorded with the
development plan approval of the mobile home park. Such covenants must contain/
address the following:
         (a)   The mobile home park owner shall furnish each occupant of a
mobile home site with a copy of the recorded covenants.
         (b)   The placement or replacement of each mobile home shall be in
accordance with and shall follow the procedures set forth by the Unified
Development Ordinance.
         (c)   When applicable by the terms of this chapter, accessory
structures are subject to all applicable site setbacks and require an ILP.
         (d)   It shall be the responsibility of the mobile home park owner to
see that all sites and open spaces are kept in a neat and orderly condition at
all times.
         (e)   In order not to impede safety vehicles, no on-street parking of
boats, trailers, semi-trucks, etc. shall be permitted.
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 155.135 ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Administrator of the PPC. The Administrator may be assisted by the staff of the
PPC or others when needed. The Administrator shall have final authority on all
matters of administration and enforcement subject to the guidance of the PPC
and BZA. Appeal from the decisions of the Administrator may be made to the BZA.
Recourse from the decision of the BZA shall be to the courts through procedures
provided by law.
§ 155.136 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The PPC is established, with membership as provided by
I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
   (B)   Organization. At the first meeting of the calendar year, the PPC shall
elect from among its members a president and a vice-president as per
established rules and procedures. Consistent with state law, it may appoint and
fix the compensation of a secretary and such employees, as it considers
necessary to discharge its duties.
   (C)   Rules and procedures. The PPC shall supervise and make rules for the
administration of the affairs of the PPC and prescribe uniform rules pertaining
to investigations and hearings.
   (D)   Meetings and records. The PPC, or Plat Committee as appropriate, shall
hold a public hearing after the receipt of an application for a change of
zoning, minor plat, primary plat, or a secondary plat from the applicant or
their agent in accordance with the adopted rules and procedures. The PPC shall
hold a public meeting after the receipt of an application for a development
plan from the applicant or their agent in accordance with the established rules
and procedures. Meetings of the PPC shall be open to the public. Before holding
the required public hearing or meeting, the application must be in compliance
with the established rules and procedures.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Subdivisions. The PPC and Plat Committee as appropriate shall
render decisions regarding subdivisions in accordance with the subdivision
control ordinance and rules and procedures.
      (2)   Development plans. The PPC shall render decisions regarding
development plans in accordance with §§
155.015 through
155.027.
      (3)   Proposals to change the zone maps incorporated into the ordinance.
The following procedure applies to a proposal to change the zone maps (whether
by incorporating an additional map or by amending or deleting a map)
incorporated by reference into this chapter consistent with applicable state
law.
         (a)   In considering the proposal, both the PPC and the Town Council
shall pay reasonable regard to:
            1.   The Comprehensive Plan; current conditions and the character
of current structures and uses in each district;
            2.   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
            3.   The conservation of property values throughout the
jurisdictional area; and
            4.   Responsible development and growth.
         (b)   The PPC shall give notice and hold a public hearing on the
proposal in accordance with its rules and procedures.
         (c)   Whenever the PPC deems it advisable they may permit or require
the owner of a parcel of real property to make a commitment subject to the
rules prescribed for commitments in this section. By permitting or requiring a
commitment, the PPC does not become obligated to recommend or not recommend the
adoption of the proposal.
         (d)   Within ten business days after the PPC determines its
recommendation, the PPC shall certify the proposal to the appropriate
legislative body with a favorable recommendation, an unfavorable
recommendation, or no recommendation from the PPC.
         (e)   The appropriate legislative body shall vote on the proposal
within 90 days after the PPC certifies the proposal. The appropriate
legislative body's consideration of the proposal is governed by I.C. 36-7-4-
608.
         (f)   During the time when the proposal is being considered by the
appropriate legislative body, the owner of a parcel of land may make a new
commitment or modify the terms of a commitment made when the proposal was
before the PPC. No further action of the PPC is required for a new commitment
to be effective. If a commitment made when the proposal was before the PPC is
modified and the effect of the modification is to make the commitment more
stringent, no further action of the PPC is required for the modified commitment
to be effective. However, if the effect of such a modification is to make the
commitment less stringent, then the modified commitment must be ratified by the
PPC to be effective. A commitment made or modified under this provision is
subject to the rules prescribed for commitment in this section.
         (g)   If the proposal is adopted, the PPC shall update the zone maps
that it keeps available with the chapter and the town's Code of Ordinances.
         (h)   Unless the proposal provides for a later effective date, the
updated zone maps contained in the proposal take effect when the proposal is
duly adopted.
      (4)   Proposals to amend or partially repeal the text of the ordinance.
The following procedure applies to a proposal to amend or partially repeal the
text (not zone maps) of this Unified Development Ordinance.
         (a)   In considering the proposal, both the PPC and the Town Council
shall pay reasonable regard to:
            1.   The Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   Current conditions and the character of current structures and
uses in each district;
            3.   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
            4.   The conservation of property values throughout the
Jurisdictional area; and
            5.   Responsible development and growth.
         (b)   The PPC shall give notice and hold a public hearing on the
proposal in accordance with its Rules and Procedures. The PPC, in its
discretion, may also give notice and hold hearings at other places within the
town's jurisdiction where the distribution of the population or diversity of
interests of the people indicate that such hearings would be desirable.
         (c)   Within ten business days after the PPC determines its
recommendation, the PPC shall certify the proposal to the Town Council with a
favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation, or no recommendation
from the PPC.
         (d)   The Town Council shall vote on the proposal within 90 days after
the PPC certifies the proposal. The Town Council's consideration of the
proposal is governed by I.C. 36-7-4-607.
         (e)   If the proposal is adopted, the PPC shall publish the amendments
to the chapter in book or pamphlet form.
         (f)   Unless the proposal provides for a later effective date, the
amendments contained in the proposal take effect when the proposal is duly
adopted, except for any provision prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a
violation, which may not take effect until the PPC complies with the applicable
notice and filing requirements described in I.C. 36-7-4-610.
         (g)   Verification of petition. The Administrator shall verify the
completeness of the application and the date of verification shall be noted on
the application.
      (5)   Adoption or amendment of the Comprehensive Plan.
         (a)   Adoption or amendment of the Comprehensive Plan shall be in
accordance with Indiana Planning Law and established rules and procedures.
         (b)   The PPC shall give notice and hold public hearings in accordance
with state law. At least ten days prior to the date set for the first hearing,
the PPC shall publish a schedule of all such meetings in accordance with its
rules and procedures.
      (6)   Rules governing commitments.
         (a)   Form. A commitment must be substantiated by the form set forth
in the PPC's rules and procedures, and must identify any specially affected
persons or class of specially affected persons who may enforce the commitment.
A commitment must authorize its recording by the Administrator in the Office of
the Orange County Recorder.
         (b)   Recording; copies. A commitment shall be recorded in the Office
of the Orange County Recorder and takes effect upon the adoption of the
proposal to which it relates. Following the recording of a commitment, the
applicant shall return a copy of the original recorded commitment to the
Administrator for PPC's file.
         (c)   Persons bound. Unless it is modified or terminated by the PPC in
accordance with this section, a recorded commitment is binding on the owner of
the parcel, a subsequent owner of the parcel, and any other person who acquires
interest in the parcel. An unrecorded commitment is binding on the owner of the
parcel who makes the commitment. An unrecorded commitment is binding on a
subsequent owner of the parcel or a person acquiring an interest in the parcel
only if the subsequent owner or the person acquiring the interest has actual
notice of the commitment.
      (7)   Modification or termination by PPC. Except for a commitment
modified or automatically terminated in accordance with this section, a
commitment may be modified or terminated only by a decision of the PPC made at
a public hearing after notice of the hearing has been given under the PPC's
rules and procedures.
      (8)   Reconsideration of proposals. The PPC may adopt a rule to limit
further consideration, for up to one year after its defeat, of any proposal
that is defeated under I.C. 36-7-4-608 or I.C. 36-7-4-1512. The PPC may also
adopt a rule to limit consideration, for up to six months after the withdrawal
or defeat of any proposal, of any other proposal involving the same property
that was the subject of the withdrawn or defeated proposal.
§ 155.137 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment. The Area BZA is established, with membership as
provided by I.C. 36-7-4-902(d).
   (B)   Organization. At the first meeting of the calendar year, the BZA shall
elect from among its members a chairman and a vice chairman as per established
rules and procedures. Consistent with Indiana Planning Law, it may appoint and
fix the compensation of a secretary and such employees, as it considers
necessary to discharge its duties.
   (C)   Rules and procedures. The BZA shall supervise and make rules for the
administration of the affairs of the BZA and prescribe uniform rules pertaining
to investigations and hearings.
   (D)   Meetings and records. The BZA shall hold a public hearing after the
receipt of an application for a variance, special exception, or appeal from an
applicant or their agent in accordance with the established rules and
procedures. Before holding the required public hearing, applicant must act in
accordance with the established rules and procedures. Meetings of the BZA shall
be open to the public. Minutes and records shall be filed in the office of the
BZA and made available to the public upon request. A majority of the members of
the BZA shall constitute a quorum. No action of the BZA is official unless
concurred by a majority of the membership of the BZA.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Variance. The BZA shall authorize in specific cases such variances
from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where owing to special conditions fully demonstrated on the facts presented, a
literal enforcement of this chapter will result in an unnecessary hardship, and
so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice
done. The BZA may grant a variance with respect to specific property if, after
a hearing, the BZA finds that such variance is warranted per Indiana Planning
Law.
         (a)   The BZA shall not grant a variance from a use district or
classification.
         (b)   When in the public interest, the Administrator may consider and
render decisions on applications involving minor deviations from the provisions
of the ordinance, limited to the following:
            1.   Lot area requirements may be reduced by not more than 10% of
that required in the district.
            2.   Yard requirements may be reduced by permitting portions of a
building or structure to extend into and occupy not more than 10% of the area
of a required yard.
            3.   Maximum building heights may be increased by not more than
10%.
         (c)   The following standards shall apply for evaluating variances as
established by I.C. 36-7-4-918.5:
            1.   The variance will not be injurious to the public health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the community.
            2.   The use or value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner.
            3.   The strict application of the terms of the ordinance will
continue the unusual and unnecessary hardship as applied to the property for
which the variance is sought because.
      (2)   Special exception. The BZA shall hear and determine special
exceptions to the terms of this chapter upon which the BZA is required to act.
The BZA may require that impact studies be performed at the expense of the
applicant prior to deciding upon said special exception.
         (a)   The special exceptions listed in the districts (see Table 2,
Authorized Uses), and their accessory buildings and uses may be permitted by
the BZA in the districts indicated therein, in accordance with the procedures
set forth in this section. Uses listed as special exceptions in the
Conservation District must be approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) prior to application for special exception by the BZA.
         (b)   Upon receipt of an application for a special exception, the
Administrator may refer the application to the PPC for investigation as to the
manner in which the proposed location and character of the special exception
will affect the Comprehensive Plan. The PPC shall report the results of its
study to the BZA within 90 days following receipt of the application. If no
such report is filed with the BZA within the time period, or, if no report is
requested by the Administrator, then the BZA shall proceed to process the
application. The BZA shall then proceed with a hearing on the application in
the manner prescribed in this chapter. Following the hearing, and upon an
affirmative finding by the BZA that the applicant meets the requirements and
criteria established by Indiana Planning Law and this chapter, the applicant
may apply for an ILP.
         (c)   An existing use which is listed herein as a special exception,
and which is located in a district in which such special exception may be
permitted, is a conforming use. Any expansion of the special exception
involving the enlargement of the buildings, structures, or land area devoted to
such use shall be subject to the procedures described in this section.
         (d)   The following standards shall apply for evaluating special
exceptions as established by I.C. 36-7-4-918.2:
            1.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special
exception will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
morals, or general welfare.
            2.   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted.
            3.   The establishment of the special exception will not impede or
substantially alter the normal and orderly development and improvement of
surrounding property for uses permitted in the district.
            4.   Adequate utilities, access road, drainage, and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
            5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion on the public
roadways.
            6.   The special exception will be located in a district where such
use is permitted and all other requirements set forth in the ordinance that are
applicable to such use will be met.
      (3)   Variances of use.
         (a)   The BZA shall hear and determine variances of use to the terms
of this chapter upon which the BZA is required to act.
         (b)   The following standards shall apply for evaluating variances of
use as established by I.C. 36-7-4-918.4:
            1.   The approval will not be injurious to the public health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the community;
            2.   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property
included in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse
manner;
            3.   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar
to the property involved;
            4.   The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance
will constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which
the variance is sought; and
            5.   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
comprehensive plan adopted under the 500 series of I.C. 36-7-4-500.
      (4)   Uses not listed. It is recognized that in the development of a
zoning ordinance, not all uses of land can be listed, nor can all future uses
be anticipated. A use may have been omitted from the list of those specified as
permissible in the various districts established by this chapter, or questions
may arise concerning words that are synonymous. The applicant shall file a
request for a decision by the BZA. The BZA may also initiate an application.
The BZA shall render a decision after such application is made, and shall
notify the applicant and any person requesting such notice of such decision. In
such instances the following procedures shall apply:    
         (a)   Existing conditions. In classifying a use, the BZA shall first
make a finding that all of the following conditions exist:
            1.   That investigations have disclosed that the subject use and
its operations are compatible with the uses permitted in the district wherein
it is proposed to be located;
            2.   That the subject use is similar to one or more uses permitted
in the district within which it is proposed to be located;
            3.   That the subject use will not cause substantial injury to the
values of property in the neighborhood or district within which it is proposed
to be located; and
            4.   That the subject use will be so designed, located, and
operated that the public health, safety, and general welfare will be protected.
         (b)   Classification. The BZA shall classify such use as to permitting
such use by right, or permitting such use subject to special exception.
            1.   When classification of use is appealed or referred to the BZA,
it shall be the duty of the BZA to ascertain all pertinent facts concerning
said use and set forth in writing its findings and the reasons for designating
a specific classification for such use.
            2.   Limitations in power to classify. In no instance shall the BZA
determine that a use be permitted in a district when such use is specifically
listed as first permissible in a less restricted district.
            3.   Effect of determination. Uses classified pursuant to this
section shall be regarded as listed uses. The Administrator shall maintain in
the office of the PPC an up-to-date list of all such classifications that have
been made.
            4.   Should the BZA determine that a use cannot be classified, then
the use shall be considered appropriate only within a PUD District.
      (5)   Appeals. The BZA shall hear and determine appeals from and review
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Administrator in
the enforcement of this chapter. In exercising its powers the BZA may reverse
or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed and to that end shall have all of the powers of the
Administrator from whom the appeal is taken. The BZA shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of an appeal. Public notice shall be given of the hearing
and due notice shall be given additionally to the affected parties as
determined by the BZA. The BZA must require the party taking the appeal to
assume the cost of public notice and due notice to interested parties.
         (a)   When an appeal from the decision of any official or board has
been filed with the BZA, all proceedings, operation, and work on the premises
concerned shall be stayed, unless the official or board from whom the appeal
was taken shall certify to the BZA that, by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings or work shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by a circuit or superior court of the county in which the
premises affected are situated, on notice to the office or board from whom the
appeal is taken and the owner of the premises affected, and on due cause shown.
         (b)   Every decision of the BZA shall be subject to review by
certiorari. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the BZA, may present to the
circuit or superior court of the county in which the premises affected are
located, a petition duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal
in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition
shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the entry of the decision
or order of the BZA complained of. No change of venue from the county in which
the premises affected are located shall be had in any cause arising under the
provisions of this section.
§ 155.138 DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Development plan review required. With the exception of single-family
residential development, any new development or an addition to an existing
structure requires development plan review.
      (1)   Development plan review by the PPC. At a public meeting, the PPC
shall review development plans for:
         (a)   New development; and
         (b)   Additions to existing primary structures that increase the total
square footage by 30% or more.
      (2)   Administrative development plan review by staff. Staff shall
administratively review development plans for:
         (a)   Additions to existing primary structures that increase the total
square footage by less than 30%; and
         (b)   Accessory structures.
   (B)   Approval process. Development plan application. The applicant shall
complete and submit a development plan application for review and consideration
by the PPC in accordance with the appropriate application form adopted by the
PPC as part of its rules and procedures.
      (1)   The PPC, acting as a committee of the whole, shall hold a public
meeting relating to the application in accordance with its rules and
procedures.
      (2)   At the public meeting, the PPC shall review the particular
circumstances and facts applicable to the proposed project in terms of the
standards and requirements as detailed of the zoning ordinance and shall make a
determination as to whether the proposed project meets the standards set forth
below:
         (a)   Compatibility of the development with surrounding land uses.
         (b)   If the application is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
         (c)   Availability and coordination of water, sanitary sewers, storm
water drainage, and other utilities.
         (d)   Management of traffic in a manner that promotes conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, and the harmonious development of the
community. This development requirement shall ensure that the:
            1.   Design and location of the proposed street and highway access
points minimize safety hazards and congestion.
            2.   Capacity of adjacent streets and highways is sufficient to
safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be generated by the new
development.
            3.   Entrances, streets, and internal traffic circulation
facilities in the development plan are compatible with existing and planned
streets and adjacent developments.
            4.   The safety and convenience of both vehicular and pedestrian
circulation on-site, with appropriate tie-ins to adjacent public circulation
systems.
            5.   Adequate accessibility for emergency vehicles.
         (e)   Specific development requirements set forth in the zoning
ordinance and the development requirements and technical design standards set
forth in the subdivision control ordinance.
         (f)   The location and design of driveways providing vehicular ingress
to and egress from the site, in relation to streets giving access to the site,
and in relation to pedestrian traffic.
         (g)   The arrangement of uses on the site in relation to functional,
efficient, and compatible arrangements with the site and also to adjacent uses.
         (h)   The PPC may further require landscaping, fences, and walls in
pursuance of these objectives and they shall be provided and maintained as a
condition of the establishment and continued maintenance of any use to which
they are appurtenant.
         (i)   The cost estimates as required in this section may be reviewed
by the appropriate county officials, town officials and/or consultants. These
reviews and recommendations shall be forwarded to the PPC for the inclusion in
any approved development plan.
         (j)   The PPC may waive development plan information for topography,
vegetation, problem soils, landscaping, employment data, environmental
considerations, etc., when such concerns are obviously not pertinent to the
proposed development.
         (k)   The PPC may seek and consider the input from any public
officials, public bodies, and/or outside consultants as part of the development
plan review process, prior to approving, disapproving, or approving with
conditions, the development plan.
      (3)   Consideration. If after the public meeting and subsequent review of
this project, the PPC, acting as a committee of the whole, finds that the
proposed development meets the standards set forth in this chapter necessary
for approval, the PPC shall grant the applicant development plan approval. The
development plan(s), all supplementary data, together with minutes of any
meetings and/or hearings related to the applications shall become part of the
official development plan file.
      (4)   Direct appeal to the full Commission. If the applicant or any other
interested person is aggrieved or adversely affected by a non-final zoning
decision made by the committee of the whole as described above, then the
applicant or interested person may appeal the non-final decision directly to
the PPC. An applicant or interested person who wishes to appeal a non-final
zoning decision must file the appeal not later than five days after the date
the decision is made, and the PPC shall then hold a public hearing and render a
final decision on the application in accordance with its rules and procedures.
If no appeal of a non-final decision is filed within five days after the date
the decision is made, then that decision shall be considered as duly approved
by the full PPC and treated as a final zoning decision, upon the later of
either:
         (a)   Ten days after the date the non-final decision was made; or
         (b)   Compliance by the applicant with any requirements imposed
pursuant to division (C) below.
   (C)   Performance guarantees. To ensure compliance with all development plan
standards and any conditions imposed thereunder, the PPC may require that a
cash certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or surety bond
acceptable to the town, equaling 110% of the PPC's estimated cost of
improvements associated with a project for which development plan approval is
sought, be deposited with the town to ensure faithful completion of the
improvements and also be subject to the following:
      (1)   The performance guarantee shall be deposited prior to the onset of
any construction, clearing of land or earth moving related to the development
plan. The town may establish procedures whereby a rebate of any cash deposits
in reasonable proportion to the ration of work completed on the required
improvements will be make as work progresses. Any partial release of funds
shall be less than 10%, which shall be retained by the town until all work has
been completed and subsequently inspected and approved by the town or its
agents. This does not relieve the applicant from satisfying all applicable
maintenance warranties and/or guarantees necessary to ensure proper functioning
of said public improvements.
      (2)   As used in this section, "improvements" mean those features and
actions associated with a project, which are considered necessary by the PPC,
to protect natural resources, or the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the town and future users or inhabitants of the proposed project
or project area, including roadways, lighting, utilities, sidewalks, screening,
landscaping, and surface drainage, improvements do not include the entire
project, which is the subject of development plan approval.
§ 155.139 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The Administrator, or their agent, shall be responsible for the
issuance of all ILPs for any alteration to the condition of land, or structures
thereon, with the jurisdictional area of the PPC. Any persons making said
alterations must obtain an ILP for said alterations from the Administrator
prior to the start of any construction
      (2)   The filing fee for an ILP is shown on the fee schedule, which is
hereby established as a part of this section.
   (B)   Permit application. The necessary information for an ILP shall be
submitted on the appropriate application form adopted by the PPC.
      (1)   As a condition of issuing an ILP, the Administrator or their agent,
may require the relocation of any structure or any entrance or exit, or the
inclusion of an entrance or exit not shown on the plan, if the requirement is
necessary in the interest of public welfare.
      (2)   An ILP for a special exception may not be issued until the special
exception has been approved by the WBZA.
      (3)   Any application that requires physical encroachment upon another's
property to meet drainage requirements shall provide a notarized letter of
agreement to allow encroachment from those owners upon whose property
encroachment must occur.
      (4)   If an application for an ILP relates to a light or general
industrial use, it must be accompanied by a certificate of compliance,
subscribed by a registered professional engineer of the State of Indiana,
stating that the use will meet the performance standards established by this
chapter.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter
erected, altered, or reconstructed shall be occupied or used, in whole or in
part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Administrator, or their agent, stating that the use complies with
all of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The certificate of occupancy shall be issued within five days of
the completion of the improvements authorized by the ILP, provided said
improvements are in compliance with all provisions of this chapter and all
reinspection fees and fines have been paid.
   (D)   Expiration and extension of an improvement location permit.
      (1)   If a person to whom an ILP has been issued fails to complete
construction within 24 months after the ILP is issued (or less as described
elsewhere), or fails to comply with the approved plan upon which the ILP was
issued, said ILP shall be null and void.
      (2)   Extension. The Administrator may grant one 12-month extension for
any ILP at the written request of the applicant stating the need for such
extension.
§ 155.140 COMPLAINTS, VIOLATIONS, AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Complaints. Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged
to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall
state fully the causes and basis thereof and shall be filed with the
Administrator. The Administrator, or their agent, shall investigate the
complaint, take immediate action and may refer the matter to the PPC, BZA, or
their attorney for review. The Administrator or other member of the PPC staff
shall have authority to enter upon property at any time to investigate a
written complaint.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   Improvement location permit violations.
         (a)   Any persons or corporation who shall initiate construction prior
to obtaining an ILP, or certificate of occupancy or any other permit or
authorization required herein, shall pay the fine as set forth in the fee
schedule.
         (b)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure or premises and
any other person who participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation
may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties
prescribed by this section.
      (2)   Zoning ordinance violations. Any person or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of these ordinances or fail to fully comply
therewith or with any of the requirements thereof (including violations of
conditions established in connection with grants of variance or special
exceptions) or who shall build, reconstruct or structurally alter any building
in violation of the approved plot plan or building plans shall be subject to
civil penalties of not more than $300 per day of violation.
      (3)   Subdivision control ordinance violations.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to periodically
research the County Auditors records and perform the other necessary
investigation to detect any violations of these regulations.
         (b)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located
in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat
of such subdivision has been approved by the PPC in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations and filed with the Orange County Recorder.
         (c)   No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by these regulations until the proposed
subdivision has been approved by the PPC in accordance with these regulations
and filed with the Orange County Recorder.
         (d)   No ILP shall be issued for the construction of any building or
structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of these regulations.
         (e)   The Administrator shall enforce these regulations and bring to
the attention of the PPC attorney any violations or lack of compliance
herewith. The PPC attorney shall take steps necessary under the Indiana Code to
civilly enjoin any violation of these regulations.
   (C)   Remedies. The PPC, BZA or any designated enforcement official, may
institute a suit for injunctive relief in the circuit court, or any court in
the county having jurisdiction to entertain said matters, to restrain an
individual person or a governmental unit from violating the provisions of the
ordinance enacted pursuant to its terms or the subdivision control ordinance.
The PPC or the BZA may also institute a suit for mandatory injunction,
directing an individual person or a governmental unit to remove a structure
erected in violation of the provisions of these ordinances, enacted pursuant to
its terms. In the event that the PPC or BZA deems it necessary to invoke one or
more remedies under this section, then, and in that event, they shall be
entitled, if found to be the prevailing party, to an award of attorneys fees
and costs of this action.
§ 155.141 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Collection of fees. Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be accompanied by the fees specified in the
fee schedule, and shall be paid to the Town of Paoli and collected by the PPC.
   (B)   Annual review of fees assessed. On or before December 31 of each year,
the Administrator shall determine if there has been an increase in the Consumer
Price Index (United States city average) prepared by the United States
Department of Labor, by comparing the arithmetic mean of the Index for July,
August, and September of the current year with the same three-month period of
the preceding year. If there has been an increase, the increase shall be stated
as a percentage of the arithmetic mean for the three-month period of the year
preceding the current year (the adjustment percentage). The adjustment
percentage shall be rounded to the nearest 0.1% and may not exceed 4%, unless
otherwise provided by ordinance. Whenever the Administrator determines that
there has been an increase, the Administrator may make a corresponding
adjustment to the fee schedule (including late fees) that are assessed under
this section, in order to recoup increases in personnel and administrative
costs for the PPC. However the adjustment may not be greater than the
Adjustment Percentage determined under this division. The adjusted fees as
determined by the Administrator under this paragraph take effect on January 1
of the succeeding year.
   (C)   Calculation of fees. Fees will be calculated when the permit is being
reviewed. Required inspections and estimated inspection time will be itemized
and incorporated into the fees.
   (D)   Fines and re-inspection fees. Fines shall be paid before a permit is
issued. Re-inspection fees shall be paid before the final inspection and/or the
certificate of occupancy is issued (where applicable).
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.155 COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Density requirement.
      (1)   Number of lots. Lot size and number of lots for commercial
subdivisions shall be dictated by the private market.
   (B)   Open space requirement.
      (1)   TWN Zoning District. Commercial subdivisions with the TWN Town
Square Zoning District shall be required to provide only sufficient open space
to meet the bufferyard requirements.
   (C)   Exemptions. Reserved.
§ 155.156 INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Density requirement.
      (1)   Number of lots. Lot size and number of lots for commercial
subdivisions shall be dictated by the private market.
   (B)   Open space requirement. Reserved.
   (C)   Exemptions. Reserved.
§ 155.157 RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Density requirement.
      (1)   The Comprehensive Plan encourages housing development where
existing utilities, educational institutions, and public safety services are
already in place. Therefore, development criteria have been established to
limit development density unless close to the appropriate infrastructure.
      (2)   Base density. The number of lots in any subdivision shall be as
indicated in the development standards for the respective zoning district. The
number of acres used in determination of the number of lots shall exclude areas
designated as primary conservation areas. In determination of lots, any
fraction of less than five tenths shall be disregarded, while a fraction of
five tenths or greater shall be counted as one lot.
   (B)   Open space requirement.
      (1)   Percent open space. The percent of open space required for any
subdivision shall be as indicated in the development standards for the
respective zoning district, or shall be the sum of all required primary
conservation areas, bufferyards, and perimeter landscaping areas within a
subdivision, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Composition. Open space may be comprised of primary conservation
areas, secondary conservation areas, major utility easements, bufferyards,
perimeter landscaping, recreation areas, and drainage facilities under the
conditions described below.
         (a)   Primary conservation areas. This category includes wetlands,
lands that are generally inundated (under natural ponds, natural lakes, or
creeks), land within the 100-year floodplain, and slopes exceeding 20%. All
areas designated as primary conservation areas shall be designated as open
space on the plat.
            1.   Primary conservation areas shall not count toward any more
than 50% of the total required open space for a subdivision no matter how large
the feature exists.
            2.   Inclusive in the designated primary conservation area shall be
a 25-foot "no build" buffer maintained around all primary conservation areas.
Primary conservation areas shall not count toward the maximum density for the
subdivision.
         (b)   Secondary conservation areas. This category shall typically
include all or part of the following kinds of resources: woodlands; aquifer
recharge areas; poorly drained soils; significant wildlife habitat areas; prime
farmland; historic, archaeological or cultural features listed (or eligible to
be listed) on national, state, county, or town registers or inventories; scenic
views into the property from existing public roads; or other features unique to
the site. Secondary conservation areas therefore typically include parks,
forest, meadows, pastures, farm fields, part of the ecologically connected
matrix of natural areas significant for wildlife habitat, water quality
protection or other reasons.
            1.   All secondary conservation areas that are preserved as common
area shall count toward the minimum required open space for a subdivision.
            2.   The most significant environmental features shall be conserved
first when a site has more secondary conservation areas necessary to fulfill
the minimum open space requirement.
         (c)   Major utility easements. This category may be considered open
space, but only if the combination of all primary open space, preserved
secondary conservation areas, required perimeter landscaping and required
bufferyards do not fulfill the minimum open space requirement. Major utility
easements within the property lines of a buildable lot shall not count as open
space.
         (d)   Bufferyards. Bufferyards, when required, shall be in accordance
with the Bufferyards section of the Unified Development Ordinance.
            1.   Bufferyards are not subject to reduction.
            2.   Bufferyards shall be in addition to perimeter landscaping and
major utility easements.
         (e)   Perimeter landscaping. Reserved.
         (f)   Recreation areas. Active recreation areas shall be centrally
located within the subdivision, or shall be situated next to primary
conservation areas.
            1.   Under no circumstances shall active recreation areas be
located within major utility easements, required perimeter landscaping areas,
or required bufferyards.
            2.   At least one acre of land that is at least 150 feet wide shall
be usable for recreation for every 50 acres of parent tract.
         (g)   Drainage facilities.
            1.   All drainage easements outside of buildable lots shall be
counted as open space.
            2.   Retention ponds with a water surface area over 25,000 square
feet at normal pool elevation qualify as open space. All smaller ponds shall
not count toward open space.
            3.   Each retention pond shall have natural edges for at least 85%
of its perimeter. Rip-rap, inlets, outlet structures or other engineered
materials may be used in the remaining 15%. Any retention ponds that do not
meet these design criteria shall not count as open space.
            4.   Detention facilities that have over 25,000 square feet of area
measured within the top of bank shall qualify for open space. All smaller
detention facilities shall not count toward open space.
   (C)   Exemptions. Reserved.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.170 GENERAL.
   (A)   Conditions for approval. The subdivision layout shall be of such a
character that it protects the health, safety, and general welfare of the
residents in the jurisdiction of the PPC. Considerations for approval, in
addition to the other criteria and requirements in this chapter include:
      (1)   Protection of all primary conservation areas;
      (2)   Preservation and maintenance of woodlands, existing fields,
pastures, meadows, and orchards and creation of sufficient buffer areas to
minimize conflicts between uses, including residential and agricultural uses;
and
      (3)   Protection of wildlife habitat areas and sites of historic,
archaeological or cultural value.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Commercial subdivisions. Reserved.
      (2)   Industrial subdivisions. Reserved.
      (3)   Residential subdivision; minor. The following subdivisions are
exempt from the requirements of this section for minor residential subdivisions
if the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) reviews and approves the plan. If the
applicant disagrees with the TAC recommendation, the petition must be presented
to the PPC as a minor plat.
         (a)   Agricultural sales: A subdivision where the resulting lots are
intended solely for agricultural uses, are at least 20 acres in area, and abut
existing public ways.
         (b)   Two-lot subdivision: A subdivision resulting in only two
building lots where the parent lot, tract or parcel existed prior to the
passage of this UDO.
         (c)   Adjoining transfers: A subdivision resulting in the transfer or
sale of land between adjoining lot owners that does not create additional
building sites.
      (4)   Residential subdivisions; major. Reserved.
§ 155.171 DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Environmental restrictions.
      (1)   No land shall be subdivided that is found to be unsuitable for
subdivisions by reason of flooding, ponding, poor drainage, adverse soil
conditions, adverse soil conditions, adverse geological formations,
unsatisfactory topography or other conditions likely to be harmful to public
health, safety or general welfare, unless such unsuitable conditions are to the
satisfaction of the town.
      (2)   No subdivision containing land located in a floodway or a flood
hazard area shall be approved by the PPC with the approval of Indiana
Department of Environmental Management. No lot shall be located so as to
include land located within a floodway or flood hazard area unless the lot is
such size and shape it will contain a buildable area not within a floodway or
flood hazard area, suitable for development as allowed by the Unified
Development Ordinance for zone in which the lot is located.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. In order to provide more suitable sites for
building and other uses, improve surface drainage, and control erosion, the
following requirements shall be met:
      (1)   The locations, grading, and placement of sub-grade (base) material
of all street, public driveway, and public parking areas shall be accomplished
as the first work done on a development plan.
      (2)   All lots, tracts, or parcels shall be graded to provide proper
drainage away from the buildings and dispose of it without ponding, and all
land within the development shall be graded to drain and dispose of surface
water without ponding, except where approved by the Orange County Drainage
Board. Around each permanent building foundation there shall be a slope with a
minimum vertical fall of six inches for the area measured from the foundation
to a point ten feet from the building foundation or to the property line,
whichever is closer.
         (3)   All drainage provisions shall be of such design to adequately
handle the surface runoff and carry it to the nearest suitable outlet such as a
curbed street, storm drain, or natural watercourse. Where drainage swales are
used to divert surface waters away from buildings, they shall be sodded or
planted as required and shall be of such slope, shape, and size as to conform
to the requirements of the PPC.
         (4)   Concentration of surface water runoff shall only be permitted in
swales or watercourses.
         (5)   Land alteration shall be accomplished in such a way that the
grades left at the time that the work is completed will be permanent and
stable.
   (C)   Excavation and fills.
      (1)   Cuts and fills shall not endanger adjoining property.
      (2)   Fill shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
      (3)   Fills shall not encroach or impede flows on natural watercourses or
constructed channels.
      (4)   Fills placed adjacent to natural watercourses or constructed
channels shall have suitable protection against erosion during this period of
construction.
      (5)   Grading will not be done in such a way so as to divert water onto
the property of another land owner without the expressed consent of the
Administrator.
      (6)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control will
be exercised.
      (7)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to cross live streams.
Provision will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent culverts
or bridges.
   (D)   Sedimentation. Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping,
vegetation, regrading, or other development activities, it shall be the
responsibility of the applicant, person, corporation, and/or other entity
causing such sedimentation to remove it from all adjoining surfaces, drainage
systems, and watercourses and to repair any damage at his expense as quickly as
possible.
   (E)   Maintenance. Maintenance of all driveways, parking areas, drainage
facilities, and watercourses within any development plan area is the
responsibility of the subdivider, provided that said facilities have not been
dedicated to the public and accepted by the Town Council for public
maintenance.
   (F)   Drainage ways.
      (1)   Construction along waterways. It is the responsibility of the
applicant and any person, corporation, or other entity doing any act on or
across a communal stream, watercourse, or swale or upon the floodplain,
floodway, or floodway fringe area of any watercourse during the period of
development to return these areas to their original or equal conditions upon
completion of said activities.
      (2)   Construction in drainage ways. No applicant or person, corporation,
or other entity shall block, impede the flow of, alter, construct any
structure, or deposit any material or thing, or commit any act which will
affect normal or flood flow in any communal stream or watercourse without
having obtained prior approval from the Orange County Drainage Board and/or the
IDNR Division of Water, whichever is applicable.
   (G)   Design, installation, and maintenance. The design, installation, and
maintenance of the required drainage facilities and erosion and sediment
control measures shall be in accordance with the standards and specifications
set forth in the Storm Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Ordinance.
   (H)   Plan approval. The approval of plans and specifications for the
control of erosion and sedimentation shall be concurrent with the approval of
the development, and shall become a part thereof.
   (I)   Grading/clearing.
      (1)   Permission for clearing and grading prior to the approval of the
development plan may be obtained under temporary easements or other conditions
satisfactory to the Administrator.
      (2)   In the event the subdivider proceeds to clear and grade prior to
the approval of the subdivision or development plan, without satisfying
conditions specified herein, the jurisdictional agency having authority over
the approval of said subdivision or development plans may revoke the approval
of all plans and a suit for an injunction may be instituted by the PPC to halt
further construction until development plans are approved.
      (3)   Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as
spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least adequate cover on
the lots. No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk,
rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or
left deposited on any lot or street in the subdivision.
   (J)   Other.
      (1)   Land which exhibits severe limitations to urban development due to
flooding, inadequate drainage, poor soils, or other features likely to be
harmful to the safety, welfare, and general health of future residents, shall
not be subdivided, unless adequate remedies to overcome said limitations are
formulated by the subdivider and approved by the PPC and other appropriate
officials and agencies.
      (2)   Land which exhibits very severe limitations to urban development,
such as floodplains and very poorly drained organic (muck) soils, characterized
by seasonal high water tables at or near the surface, ponding, or frequent to
occasional flooding, shall not be platted for urban development or used for
non-agricultural structures.
      (3)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an adequate storm
water sewer system in accordance with the Storm Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment
Control Ordinance. When the surface drainage is adequate, easements for such
surface drainage shall be provided. Curbs and gutters along streets are
required; however, if the PPC finds it necessary to waive this requirement, a
shallow swale with its low point at least three inches below the elevation of
the subgrade of the pavement shall be installed. In this case, one of the
following types of improvements shall be furnished at driveway crossings:
         (a)   A corrugated metal pipe, at least 12 inches in diameter and 14
feet in length to be placed where required for each driveway; or
         (b)   A proper length vertical curve concrete pavement, 24 feet in
length, 12 feet minimum width, and six inches thick, designed to meet INDOT
Standard Specifications so as not to create a hazard to the under parts of
automobiles, at the entrance of each driveway.
      (4)   Upon completion of the storm sewer installation, the plans for such
system as built shall be filed with the PPC and the Orange County Surveyor.
§ 155.172 LOTS AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   General. Subdivision lots shall be in accordance with the land use and
design standards set forth in each respective zoning district.
   (B)   Commercial subdivisions.
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   All lots shall abut on a street.
         (b)   For the purposes of establishing lot lines, street right-of-way
lines shall be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering such
street.
         (c)   Lots shall not derive access exclusively from an arterial, major
collector, or minor collector. Where driveway access from an arterial, major
collector, or minor collector may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
PPC may require that such lots be served by a shared driveway in order to limit
possible traffic hazards on such street. Because of their limited nature,
shared driveways are not required to meet public roadway requirements.
         (d)   Driveways shall be adequately separated from roadway
intersections in order to minimize conflict with intersection traffic. No
driveway shall enter the adjoining street at a point closer than the distances
shown below to the intersection of the street right-of-way lines, or in the
case of a rounded property corner, from the intersection of the street right-
of-way lines extended:
            1.   Local street: 50 feet;
            2.   Collectors: 75 feet; and
            3.   Arterials: 100 feet.
      (2)   Orientation and configuration.
         (a)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this requirement is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be
avoided.
         (b)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that, where
desired along interstates, arterials, major collectors, or minor collectors,
lots may face on a local street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event a
bufferyard of no less than Bufferyard D of §
155.093 shall be provided along the back of each lot.
      (3)   Shape.
         (a)   The depth and width of any lot shall not exceed a 3:1 depth to
width ratio.
         (b)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade location, and
orientation shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to
existing and proposed topographical conditions.
         (c)   Building lines shall conform to the provisions of the respective
zoning district.
         (d)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building lines on both streets.
         (e)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream,
outside of the area designated as open space shall have additional minimum
width or depth as required to provide an adequate building site and afford the
minimum usable area required by the respective zoning district for front, rear,
and side yards.
      (4)   Other. Whenever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound
development standards, should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots
for individual commercial use.
   (C)   Industrial subdivisions.
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   All lots shall abut on a street.
         (b)   For the purposes of establishing lot lines, street right-of-way
lines shall be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering such
street.
         (c)   Lots shall not derive access exclusively from an arterial, major
collector, or minor collector. Where driveway access from an arterial, major
collector, or minor collector may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
PPC may require that such lots be served by a shared driveway in order to limit
possible traffic hazards on such street. Because of their limited nature,
shared driveways are not required to meet public roadway requirements.
      (2)   Orientation and configuration.
         (a)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this requirement is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be
avoided.
         (b)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that, where
desired along interstates, arterials, major collectors, or minor collectors,
lots may face on a local street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event a
bufferyard of no less than Bufferyard D of the Unified Development Ordinance
shall be provided along the back of each lot.
      (3)   Shape.
         (a)   The depth and width of any lot shall not exceed a 3:1 depth to
width ratio.
         (b)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade location, and
orientation shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to
existing and proposed topographical conditions.
         (c)   Building lines shall conform to the provisions of the Unified
Development Ordinance.
         (d)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building lines on both streets. A corner lot shall include
a vision clearance space between three feet and 12 feet above the established
grade at the street corner which is free from any kind of obstruction to
vision. The vision clearance space shall occupy the triangular space at the
street corner which is above a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15
feet equidistant from the street corner along each property line.
         (e)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream,
outside of the area designated as open space shall have additional minimum
width or depth as required to provide an adequate building site and afford the
minimum usable area required by the Unified Development Ordinance for front,
rear, and side yards.
      (4)   Other. Reserved.
   (D)   Residential subdivisions; minor.
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   All lots shall abut on a street.
         (b)   For the purposes of establishing lot lines, street right-of-way
lines shall be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering such
street.
         (c)   Lots shall not derive access exclusively from an arterial, major
collector or minor collector. Where driveway access from an arterial, major
collector or minor collector may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
PPC may require that such lots be served by a shared driveway in order to limit
possible traffic hazards on such street. Because of their limited nature,
shared driveways are not required to meet public roadway requirements.
      (2)   Orientation and configuration.
         (a)   All residential subdivisions must depict an arrangement of
residential lots so as to reduce, to the maximum extent feasible, any nuisance
or conflict between residential and agricultural uses, both within the tract
and in relation to adjoining and nearby tracts and to demonstrate compatibility
of the proposed minor plat and existing agricultural uses.
         (b)   In order to preserve agricultural ground, minor subdivisions in
the AG General Agricultural Zoning District shall be laid out in a cluster
design. This is best accomplished by contiguously grouping the lots in such a
manner so as to consume the least amount of land possible given the constraints
of the landscape.
         (c)   Minor subdivision plats must locate and arrange the residential
lots so as to protect, to the maximum extent possible, that portion of the
tract preserved for agricultural use.
      (d)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this requirement is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be
avoided.
      (e)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that, where
desired along interstates, arterials, major collectors, or minor collectors,
lots may face on a local street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event a
bufferyard of no less than Bufferyard D of the Unified Development Ordinance
shall be provided along the back of each lot.
      (3)   Shape.
         (a)   The depth and width of any lot shall not exceed a 3:1 depth to
width ratio.
         (b)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade location, and
orientation shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to
existing and proposed topographical conditions.
         (c)   Building lines shall conform to the provisions of the Unified
Development Ordinance.
         (d)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building lines on both streets. A corner lot shall include
a vision clearance space between three feet and 12 feet above the established
grade at the street corner which is free from any kind of obstruction to
vision. The vision clearance space shall occupy the triangular space at the
street corner which is above a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15
feet equidistant from the street corner along each property line.
      (4)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream,
outside of the area designated as open space shall have additional minimum
width or depth as required to provide an adequate building site and afford the
minimum usable area required by the Unified Development Ordinance for front,
rear, and side yards.
      (5)   Other. Reserved.
   (E)   Residential subdivisions; major.
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   All lots shall abut on a street.
         (b)   For the purposes of establishing lot lines, street right-of-way
lines shall be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering such
street.
         (c)   Lots shall not derive access exclusively from an arterial, major
collector, or minor collector. Where driveway access from an arterial, major
collector, or minor collector may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
PPC may require that such lots be served by a shared driveway in order to limit
possible traffic hazards on such street. Because of their limited nature,
shared driveways are not required to meet public roadway requirements.
         (d)   In order to provide extended flexibility in design, road
frontage requirements may be reduced by up to 20% on up to 20% of all lots in a
subdivision.
      (2)   Orientation and configuration.
         (a)   All residential subdivisions must depict an arrangement of
residential lots so as to reduce, to the maximum extent feasible, any nuisance
or conflict between residential and agricultural uses, both within the tract
and in relation to adjoining and nearby tracts and to demonstrate compatibility
of the proposed minor plat and existing agricultural uses.
         (b)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this requirement is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be
avoided.
         (c)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that, where
desired along interstates, arterials, major collectors, or minor collectors,
lots may face on a local street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event a
bufferyard of no less than Bufferyard D of the Unified Development Ordinance
shall be provided along the back of each lot.
      (3)   Shape.
         (a)   The depth and width of any lot shall not exceed a 3:1 depth to
width ratio.
         (b)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade location, and
orientation shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to
existing and proposed topographical conditions.
         (c)   Corner lots.
            1.   All corner lots shall be 25% larger in lot area and lot width
than the minimum requirements for the applicable zoning district found in the
Unified Development Ordinance.
            2.   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building lines on both streets. A corner lot shall include
a vision clearance space between three feet and 12 feet above the established
grade at the street corner which is free from any kind of obstruction to
vision. The vision clearance space shall occupy the triangular space at the
street corner which is above a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15
feet equidistant from the street corner along each property line.
      (4)   Setbacks. Building lines shall conform to the provisions of the
Unified Development Ordinance.
         (a)   Front setback.
            1.   Patterns. Irregular patterns of established front setbacks are
encouraged. Additionally, front porches (allowed projections into the front
setback) and variations in rooflines should be used to create the illusion of
variations in established front setback.
         (b)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream,
outside of the area designated as open space shall have additional minimum
width or depth as required to provide an adequate building site and afford the
minimum usable area required by the Unified Development Ordinance for front,
rear, and side yards.
      (5)   Other. Reserved.
§ 155.173 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Ponds. Detention/retention ponds may be included as part of the open
space area, as may land within easements for underground pipelines and high-
tension power lines, provided that no more than 25% of all open space areas
within the subdivision shall be used for these purposes. Waiver from this
requirement may be requested at the time of primary or secondary plat
application.
   (B)   Ownership. Open space areas shall be owned and managed by an owners'
association, a recognized land trust or conservancy, or a public entity. Open
space may not be owned by an individual property owner.
      (1)   Offer of dedication. Dedication of open space may be made to any
public or private agency interested in accepting the responsibility for
continued management. Dedication shall take the form of fee simple ownership.
Such accepting entity may, but shall not be required to accept open space. Any
entity accepting open space and its continued management may require the
posting of financial surety to ensure structural integrity of said improvements
as well as the functioning of said improvements for a term not to exceed three
years from the date of acceptance of dedication. The amount of financial surety
shall not exceed 20% of the actual cost of installation of said improvements.
      (2)   Owner's association. Any owners' association holding in common
ownership. The undivided open space and associated facilities shall be formed
and operated under the following minimum provisions:
         (a)   The subdivider shall provide a description of the association,
including its bylaws, covenants, restrictions and methods for maintaining the
open space.
         (b)   Membership in the association is mandatory for all purchasers of
property therein and their successors. The conditions and timing of
transferring control of the association from subdivider to owners shall be
identified.
         (c)   The owners' association shall be responsible for maintenance of
insurance and payment of taxes on undivided open space, enforceable by liens
placed by the town or PPC on the owners' association. The owners' association
may place liens on the improvements or lots of its members who fail to pay
their association dues in a timely manner, if provided for in the covenants and
restrictions.
         (d)   The members of the owners' association shall share equitably the
costs of maintaining and developing such undivided open space.
         (e)   In the event of a proposed transfer, within the methods
permitted in this chapter, of undivided open space land by the owners'
association, or of the assumption of maintenance of the undivided open space
land by a public or private agency, notice of such action shall be given to all
property owners within the subdivision.
         (f)   The owners' association shall obtain adequate staff to
administer common facilities and properly and continually maintain the
undivided open space.
         (g)   Lease. The owners' association may lease undivided open space
lands to any qualified person, or corporation, for operation and maintenance of
open space lands, but such a lease or agreement shall provide:
            1.   That the residents or tenants of the subdivision shall at all
times have access to the open space lands and facilities (except open space
lands used for agricultural purposes);
            2.   That the undivided open space to be leased shall be maintained
for the purposes set forth in this chapter; and
            3.   Any lease shall be subject to the approval of the board of the
association and any transfer or assignment of the lease shall be further
subject to the approval of the board of the association.
      (3)   Dedication of easements. A public agency may, but shall not be
required to, accept easements for public use of any portion of undivided open
space land and facilities, title of which is to remain in ownership by the
owners' association provided that such land and facilities are available to the
general public and that a satisfactory maintenance agreement is reached between
the subdivider or owners' association and the public agency.
      (4)   Transfer of easements. An owners' association may transfer
easements to a private, nonprofit organization, among whose purposes it is to
conserve open space and natural resources provided that the conveyance contains
appropriate provisions for proper reverter or retransfer in the event that the
organization becomes unwilling or unable to continue to carry out its functions
and that a maintenance agreement acceptable to the board of the association is
entered into by the subdivider or owners' association and the organization.
   (C)   Maintenance. The owner of the open space shall be responsible for
maintaining operation, maintenance and physical improvements to open space
lands and facilities, through use of annual dues, special assessments or other
financial capacity. A homeowners' association shall be authorized under its
bylaws to place liens on the property of residents who fall delinquent in
payment of such dues or assessments.
   (D)   Failure to maintain. Failure to adequately maintain the divided and
undivided open space in reasonable order and condition in accordance with
recorded covenants and restrictions, constitutes a violation of this chapter
subject to any and all enforcement measures authorized by this chapter
necessary to obtain compliance. In the event that the association or any
successor organization shall, at any time after establishment of a subdivision
containing open space, fail to maintain the divided or undivided open space in
reasonable order and condition in accordance with recorded covenants and
restrictions, the PPC may serve written notice upon the owner of record,
setting forth the manner in which the owner of record has failed to maintain
the open space. If no association is functioning, each property owner shall be
individually and jointly liable for the assessed cost of maintenance.
§ 155.174 PLAT SHEETS.
   Required plat language. The following divisions shall be required as a
provision of the restrictive covenants and on the plats sheets to which they
apply:
   (A)   Title block:
      (1)   Signature line for PPC president;
      (2)   Signature line for secretary; and
      (3)   Date of PPC approval of the secondary plat.
   (B)   Site distance and visibility: "No fence, wall, hedge, tree, or shrub
planting which obstructs sight lines and elevations between three and twelve
feet above the street shall be placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot
within the triangular area formed by the street right-of-way lines and a line
connecting a point 25 feet from the intersection of said street lines, or in
the case of a rounded property corner from the intersection of the street
right-of-way lines extended."
§ 155.175 SPACES SET ASIDE FOR PUBLIC USE.
   Public use sites. Where sites for schools, fire prevention, law enforcement,
day care, or other public uses indicated by the applicant, such shall be
reserved for a negotiated period of time, following the date of the final
approval of the plan. In the event a government agency or other entity
concerned passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land for its
intended purpose, the reservation period shall be extended for not more than
one additional year.
§ 155.176 STREETS.
   (A)   Local street classifications. Per the Comprehensive Plan, streets in
Paoli are classified as rural other principal arterial, rural minor arterial,
rural major collector, rural minor collector, and local street. For the
purposes of subdivision development, local roads shall be further classified
and defined as subcollector, feeder road, and access street.
      (1)   Subcollector. Subcollectors operate as the principal traffic artery
within subdivision development. Subcollectors commonly carry relatively high
volumes and convey traffic from collectors and other roads outside of the
development. Subcollectors are designed to promote the free flow of traffic.
Parking along a subcollector shall be prohibited and road cuts shall be
minimized.
      (2)   Feeder road. Feeders convey traffic from access streets to
subcollectors, collectors and other roads. Feeders commonly carry a relatively
low volume of traffic. Feeders may be used for road frontage and access to
lots.
      (3)   Access street. Access streets convey traffic from the subdivision
lot to feeders or subcollectors. Access streets commonly carry no through
traffic and include short streets, often ending in a cul-de-sac. Access streets
are designed to serve a limited number of dwellings or establishments.
   (B)   Considerations for local street classification. In classification of
streets, the average daily traffic (ADT) shall be considered. In the instance
that a use is not indicated, the applicant shall either propose, to the
satisfaction of the Administrator, a similar but indicated use, or provide
sufficient private information regarding such use as to provide an accurate
estimate of average daily traffic including but not limited to:
      (1)   Density and lot width;
      (2)   Abutting land use;
      (3)   Availability of off-street parking;
      (4)   Proximity of residential to commercial (or commercial to
residential) development and other services; and
      (5)   Public service such as trash collection, snow removal and public
safety.
   (C)   Layout. The street layout shall provide adequate vehicular and
pedestrian access to all lots and parcels of land within the subdivision and
where streets cross other streets, jogs shall not be created. Streets shall
conform to the following principles and standards:
      (1)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (2)   Residential street systems may be designed to minimize through
traffic movement, but certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be
extended to the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide
for normal circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
      (3)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street
adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street to the
prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Residential street patterns shall provide reasonably direct access
to the primary circulation system.
      (5)   Local circulation systems and land development patterns shall not
conflict with the efficiency of bordering thoroughfares.
      (6)   Widths of thoroughfares shall conform to the widths set forth in
Appendix 1, Paoli Standard Specifications and Standard Details.
      (7)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets or cul-de-sacs
shall be 50 feet. All cul-de-sacs longer than 600 feet shall terminate in a
right-of-way with a minimum diameter of 100 feet and minimum roadway diameter
of 95 feet.
      (8)   The center lines of streets should intersect as nearly at right
angles as possible.
      (9)   At intersections of streets, property line corners shall be rounded
by arcs of at least 20-feet radii or by chords of such arcs.
      (10)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than
60 degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall
be increased as deemed advisable by the PPC.
      (11)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
      (12)   Street jogs with centerline off-sets of less than 125 feet shall
not be permitted when intersecting an access or feeder road, or 250 feet when
intersecting a subcollector or collector road.
      (13)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the PPC
may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
      (14)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, arterial, major collector, or minor collector, frontage
or access road to be built in such a manner as to provide adequate and safe
access, parking and loading to the site while minimizing road cuts.
      (15)   A temporarily dead-ended street shall be permitted in any case in
which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended but is not
yet constructed. An adequate easement for a turn-around shall be provided for
any such temporary dead-end street which extends 200 feet or more in length.
Such easement shall be automatically vacated to abutting property owners when
said dead-ended street is legally extended.
      (16)   In subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do
not conform to the minimum right-of-way dimensions as established in Appendix
1, Paoli Standard Specifications and Standard Details, the subdivider shall
dedicate additional width along either one or both sides, of such streets of
inadequate width so as to bring them up to standards, provided the area to be
used for widening is owned by the subdivider or under his control.
      (17)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on
all streets must be maintained along the center line as follows:
         (a)   Major arterial, minor arterial, and major collector - 500 feet;
         (b)   Minor collector - 300 feet;
         (c)   Local street - 200 feet.
      (18)   Curvature measure along the center line shall have a minimum
radius as follows:
         (a)   Major arterial, minor arterial, and major collector - 500 feet;
         (b)   Minor collector - 300 feet;
         (c)   Local street - 200 feet.
         (d)   Between reversed curves of major arterials, minor arterials,
major collectors, and minor collectors, there shall be a tangent of not less
than 100 feet and on local streets such tangent shall be not less than 40 feet.
      (19)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Major arterials, minor arterials, major collectors, and minor
collectors: not greater than 6%.
         (b)   Local streets: not greater than 8%.
         (c)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than
0.5%.
   (D)   Installation. Streets shall be completed to grades shown on plans,
profiles, and cross-sections, provided by the subdivider, and prepared by a
registered professional engineer and approved by the PPC.
      (1)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved to the
dimensions required by such plans, profiles and cross-sections and the work
shall be performed in the manner prescribed in "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction and Maintenance" (current issue) of INDOT and
construction standards of this chapter and the appropriate Highway Department.
References in the following paragraphs refer to the INDOT Standard
Specifications.
      (2)   The street pavement shall be of Portland Cement Concrete or a
flexible asphalt concrete pavement in accordance with design standards noted in
Appendix 1, Paoli Standard Specifications and Standard Details. Acceptable
pavement alternatives are also available in Appendix 1. All concrete pavement
and flexible asphalt pavement mix designs shall meet or exceed all minimum
INDOT Standard Specifications. A gradation report of all materials used in the
mix designs and the mix design shall be furnished to the appropriate Highway
Department. Recycled asphalt pavement (RAP) shall not exceed 10% of base or
binder mix designs. No RAP will be allowed in the asphalt surface mix design.
      (3)   No asphalt base, binder or surface layer shall be placed until air
temperature is 45 degrees and rising as in accordance with INDOT standards and
the applicable Highway Department requirements. An asphalt emulsion tack coat
is required on the full face of any curb and in between the base or binder and
surface layer. Before any surface layer can be applied it should be cleaned to
the approval of the appropriate Highway Department.
      (4)   The asphalt contractor shall have an adequate supply of equipment
on the job site approved by the Highway Inspector.
      (5)   Compaction of all pavement shall be in accordance with INDOT
standards specifications.
      (6)   All stone aggregates used shall meet or exceed INDOT Standard
Specifications and shall be a Class A Type "O" aggregate. A gradation report of
the material dated no more than five days prior to delivery of material to the
subdivision shall be supplied to the appropriate Highway Department prior to
placement of stone material. If the stone does not have enough moisture in it
to get adequate compaction then the contractor shall have a water truck
available to apply a sufficient amount of water needed to obtain the required
compaction. All stone bases shall be compacted by a minimum ten ton vibratory
roller. Each stone base shall be inspected by the appropriate Highway
Department before the next course can be applied.
      (7)   Under drains shall be required under both sides of streets and
shall be located as indicated in Appendix 1, Paoli Standard Specifications and
Standard Details and shall discharge into a storm drainage system. A gradation
report for stone or gravel shall be provided to the appropriate Highway
Department and the Orange County Surveyor prior to placement of material.
      (8)   Subcollector streets for commercial or industrial development shall
be required to meet all specifications for residential collector streets while
feeder or access streets shall be required to meet all specifications for
residential subcollector streets.
      (9)   Where an arterial, major collector or minor collector is located
within a subdivision as established by this chapter, the subdivider shall
construct such street pavement in accordance with Appendix 1, Paoli Standard
Specifications and Standard Details.
      (10)   Prior to placing the street surface, adequate drainage for the
street shall be provided by the subdivider. Culvert drainage pipe, when
required, shall be concrete pipe or a similar type not less than 12 inches in
diameter approved by the PPC. Upon the completion of the street improvements,
plans and profiles as built shall be filed with the PPC. Longitudinal sub-grade
drainage shall be provided below the depth of the sub-grade.
      (11)   Before any performance bond covering a street installation is
released, the PPC, the Town Council, or appropriate Highway Department may
request that core borings of the street be done at the subdivider's expense.
Cores shall be sent to the appropriate Highway Department and/or an independent
testing laboratory for analysis. The subdivider may request permission of the
PPC and the Town Council to delay the installation of the one and one-half inch
surface layer of asphalt until the binder layer of asphalt has had a sufficient
time period to prove its durability under the stress of heavy construction
traffic. The subdivider shall be required to submit a separate performance bond
to cover the cost of the installation of the one and one-half inch surface
layer of asphalt.
   (E)   Block standards.
      (1)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate all requirements of this chapter in the zoning district
in which the subdivision is to be located, and to provide convenient access,
circulation control, and safety of traffic. Blocks that are unreasonably large
or small shall not be approved.
      (2)   Blocks shall not exceed one 1,200 feet in length. In the design of
blocks longer than 800 feet, the PPC may specify the provision of pedestrian
crosswalks or interior trails near the center of the block, or wherever would
be most useful to facilitate pedestrian circulation to a school, park,
recreation area, shopping center, or other significant neighborhood
destination.
   (F)   Curbs and gutters.
      (1)   The PPC shall require curb and gutter to be installed on each side
of the street surface. The curb and gutter shall be constructed according to
the following specifications:
         (a)   Curb and gutters shall be placed on a well compacted aggregate
base that extends approximately one foot outside the back of the curb.
         (b)   All gutters and curbs shall be constructed in accordance with
Appendix 1, Paoli Standard Specifications and Standard Details.
         (c)   All materials in the curb mix shall meet or exceed INDOT
Standard Specifications Class A Concrete and a gradation report for all
materials shall be furnished to the Highway Inspector prior to installation.
      (2)   No concrete curb mix shall be placed below air temperatures of 40
degrees.
   (G)   Sidewalks and trails.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of any major collector,
minor collector, subcollector, feeder, or access street upon which development
occurs. The Administrator, PPC, or Plat Committee may allow a minimum five-foot
wide asphalt trail as an alternate.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of Class A Portland Cement Concrete
in accordance with Appendix 1, Paoli Standard Specifications and Standard
Details.
      (3)   When possible, trails should be provided within the subdivision and
should complement the sidewalk system. Trails shall be comprised of asphalt and
shall maintain a minimum width of five feet.
   (H)   Street signs. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with
standard town street signs at the intersection of all streets.
      (1)   Stop signs shall be constructed of 30-inch by 30-inch high
intensity 3M sheeting. Stop signs shall be mounted on flanged u-channel sign
posts, shall weigh three pounds per foot and extend 12 feet in length.
      (2)   Speed limit signs shall be constructed on Engineer Grade 3M
sheeting and be mounted on flanged u-channel sign posts which shall weigh three
pounds per foot and extend 12 feet in length.
      (3)   All street name signs are to be constructed on nine-inch aluminum
plate high intensity sheeting. Street signs shall be green with six-inch white
letters and a white border. All street signs are to be mounted on tubular sign
posts, 12 feet in length.
      (4)   All mounting brackets shall be provided by the Highway Department.
      (5)   All street signs shall conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD) for Conventional Roads.
   (I)   Street lights. Street lights may be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision and such installations shall conform
to the requirements of the public utility providing such lighting.
   (J)   Acceleration and deceleration lanes. Acceleration and deceleration
lanes shall be provided at the intersection of any proposed local street and
arterial, major collector or minor collector.
   (K)   Bridges and culverts. All bridges and culverts shall be constructed in
accordance with applicable engineering standards as approved by the Orange
County Highway Department.
   (L)   Street names. No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be
confused with, the names of any existing streets unless said proposed streets
are the logical extension of continuation of, or obviously in alignment with an
existing platted street, in which case the proposed streets shall bear the
names of such existing streets. The PPC shall have final authority to approve
names for all streets.
   (M)   Improvements to adjacent streets. Whenever a proposed subdivision
borders an existing street, the PPC may require the reconstruction or widening
of such street as a condition of plat approval. Additional dedication of right-
of-way may also be required.
   (N)   Private roadways.
      (1)   Major subdivisions. Private roadways are not permitted in any type
of major subdivisions.
      (2)   Minor residential subdivision.
         (a)   Private roadways may be constructed to serve lots in minor
residential subdivisions. The owners of each lot parallel to the roadway shall
own, as tenants in common, an undivided interest in the private roadway.
         (b)   Minor subdivisions may utilize a private, shared driveway as an
alternative to development of a public street.
§ 155.177 UTILITIES.
   (A)   General design standards. Underground installation of communication
and electric utilities is required. At least 80% of all homes in a subdivision
shall be served from the rear of the lots. Such installations shall be placed
along the rear lot lines within dedicated utility easements.
   (B)   Utility easements. Utility easements shall have minimum width of 20
feet, and where located along lot lines, no more than one-half the width shall
be taken from each lot. In the case of lots extending to the boundary of the
lands platted and not adjoining another plat, the full width of the easements
shall be provided on such peripheral lots. Before determining the location of
easements, the plan shall be discussed with the local public utilities to
assure their proper placing for the installation of such services.
   (C)   Sewage disposal. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a
complete sewer system, which shall connect with an existing approved public
sewer utility and have a documented commitment by that public utility to
provide sewer service. The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer
system shall be provided by the subdivider and approved by the Indiana State
Board of Health (Refer to Regulation H. S. E. -14, l. S. B. H.). All public
utility installations shall be designed and installed at least to the standards
and specifications as permitted by law of an incorporated area if within two
miles of the development.
   (D)   Water. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
water supply system, which shall be connected to an existing approved public
water utility, except that when no such supply is available, the subdivider
shall provide one of the following:
      (1)   A complete community water supply system to be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the Indiana State Board of Health.
The plans for the installation of water main supply systems shall be provided
by the subdivider and approved by the Indiana State Board of Health.
      (2)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the Orange County Health
Department. In the case of private water supply the subdivider shall provide
evidence that such facility can feasibly be installed and function on the site.
NON-CONFORMING
§ 155.190 LOTS, STRUCTURES, AND USES.
   Within the districts established by this chapter or by amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist individually or in combination: non-conforming
lots; non-conforming structures and non-conforming uses of land; which were
lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future
amendments. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these non-conforming
uses to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
It is further the intent of this chapter that non-conforming uses shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses which are prohibited elsewhere in the same district. Illegal
uses existing at the time this chapter is enacted shall not be validated by
virtue of its enactment. Non-conforming uses are declared by this chapter to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts in which such uses are
located. A non-conforming use of a structure, a non-conforming use of land, or
a non-conforming use of a structure and land in combination shall not be
extended or enlarged after passage of this chapter by attachment on a building
or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or
by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited
in the district in which such use is located. To avoid undue hardship, nothing
in this chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction,
or designated use of any building or development on which actual construction
was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter and upon which actual building construction has been carried on
diligently. Where demolition or removal of an existing building has been
substantially begun prior to rebuilding, such demolition or removal shall be
deemed to be actual construction, provided that the work shall be carried on
diligently. Actual construction is hereby defined at a minimum as having a
valid ILP upon the initial passage of this chapter on date of passage of this
Unified Development Ordinance.
§ 155.191 LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record after the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter
notwithstanding limitation imposed by other provisions of this chapter. Such
lot must be in separate record and not of continuous frontage with existing
lots. This provision shall apply even though such lots fail to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those
applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations
for the district in which such lot is located.
§ 155.192 STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not now be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot, height, its location on the
lot, or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
that increases its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its non-conformity.
   (B)   Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than 50% of the area
of the building immediately prior to the damage, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should such structure be moved for any reason, it shall thereafter
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after it is
moved.
   (D)   A non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building, which manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
§ 155.193 USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the time of adoption of this chapter, lawful uses of land exist
which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, the
uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, provided.
   (A)   No such non-conforming uses shall be enlarged or increased nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   No such non-conforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   If any such non-conforming uses of land are discontinued or abandoned
for any reason for more than six months, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which
such land is located.
   (D)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of land.
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 155.205 RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS; MINOR.
   (A)   In residential areas. The division of a tract of land into four
residential parcels or less may be approved as a minor subdivision one time
only. The minor subdivision shall be subject to the same basic procedures as
set forth in the rules and procedures. The intent of this section is to
eliminate unnecessary requirements and reduce the time and effort required by
major subdivision plats. Use of this procedure shall be limited to the creation
of four new parcels after November 1, 1998.
      (1)   Pre-application. From the standpoint of economy of time and money,
the subdivider must consult informally with the Administrator for advice and
assistance prior to filing. This will enable the subdivider to become familiar
with these and other regulations as they affect the area and will prevent
unnecessary and costly revisions.
      (2)   Concept plan. The concept plan is an optional part of any
application for primary plat approval of a minor residential subdivision. Its
purpose is to bring the conceptual proposal before the PPC or the Plat
Committee and general public for discussion. The concept plan shall be prepared
in accordance with standards set forth for major subdivisions.
      (3)   Primary plat and secondary plat.
         (a)   Application for primary plat for minor subdivisions shall be in
accordance with standards set forth for major subdivisions with the exception
that the primary plat and the secondary plat may be heard simultaneously by the
PPC or the Plat Committee.
         (b)   Public notice. Once an application has been determined to be
complete and meets all of the requirements of this chapter, the Administrator
shall set a date for a public hearing before the PPC or the Plat Committee.
Notice of public hearing shall be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-706 and with
adopted rules and procedures. The cost of notification shall be borne by the
applicant.
      (4)   Secondary plat. Application for secondary plat for minor
subdivisions shall be in accordance with standards set forth for major
subdivisions with the exception that the primary plat and the secondary plat
may be heard simultaneously by the PPC or the Plat Committee.
      (5)   Decision by the PPC or Plat Committee. Within 30 days after
application for approval of the minor subdivision, the PPC, or the Plat
Committee as appropriate, shall approve or disapprove it.
         (a)   Approval. If the PPC or the Plat Committee determines that the
plat complies with the standards of this chapter, they shall grant primary and
secondary approval to the plat. The approval shall be certified on behalf of
the PPC by the PPC President or by the chairman of the Plat Committee and the
Administrator who shall affix their signatures to the plat original and all
other relevant documents which also may require such signatures. Approval by
the Plat Committee shall be reported to the PPC at the next public meeting.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the PPC or the Plat Committee disapproves the
secondary plat, it shall make written findings of fact and notify the applicant
in writing within ten days of the hearing, stating the specific reasons for
disapproval. This written notice shall be ratified by the PPC and signed by the
PPC President and the Administrator.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals of decisions made by the PPC or the Plat Committee
shall come before the PPC for final decision and may be made by either the
applicant or remonstrator in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-708.
      (7)   Amendments.
      (8)   Procedure restrictions. An applicant shall receive approval one
time on a parent tract allowing a minor residential subdivision containing no
more than residential lots. Any further subdividing requires an application for
a zoning map amendment for the entire tract to an appropriate zoning district
for a major subdivision as well as major subdivision approval.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions and single-family homes in the AG General
Agricultural District. Application for minor residential subdivisions and
single-family homes are brought before the WBZA and considered a restricted use
for the purpose of thorough review on a site-by-site basis. A variance may be
requested from the requirements of Table 3, Residential Uses and Requirements -
Single-family and any other sections of this chapter at the written request of
the applicant at the time of filing for special exception or variance before
the WBZA. The following procedures and restrictions shall be considered:
      (1)   Approval. Minor subdivision approval shall be in accordance with
the applicable section of the subdivision control ordinance. Single-family
homes in the AG Zoning District shall be in accordance with the procedure set
forth for special exception.
      (2)   Driveways. In order to prevent strip-lot development and preserve
rural character, it is necessary to encourage the sharing of driveways.
         (a)   New driveways for minor subdivisions in the AG Zoning District
shall be in accordance with Table 3, Residential Uses and Requirements -
Single-family of this chapter. Lots shall share a common driveway cut when
possible.
         (b)   When applicable, new driveways in the AG Zoning District shall
be along the property line to make it possible to share the driveway with an
adjoining lot in the future. In addition, the commitment may be required that
the owner share the driveway when necessary.
      (3)   Cluster design. In order to preserve agricultural ground, minor
subdivisions in the AG Zoning District shall be laid out in a cluster design.
This is best accomplished by contiguously grouping the lots in such a manner so
as to consume the least amount of land possible given the constraints of the
landscape.
      (4)   Buffering. In order to protect residential uses from agricultural
activities and vice-versa, the perimeter of the minor subdivision and lots for
single-family homes in the AG Zoning District shall have bufferyard Ag.
      (5)   Commitments. In order to protect residential uses from agricultural
activities and vice-versa, commitments may be required by the WBZA at the time
of special exception approval in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-921. Such
commitments must be recorded with the Office of the Orange County Recorder
prior to the issuance of an ILP. Commitments mandated by the WBZA may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Right-to-Farm Law of Indiana. The applicant for the special
exception acknowledges and/or agrees that agricultural uses are permitted in
the surrounding area, no agricultural or agri-business operation in the area
shall be or become a nuisance, and to not object to the continuation of any
such agricultural or agri-business operation in the surrounding area as long as
such operation does not constitute a nuisance.
         (b)   Future residential subdivision. After the granting of the
initial special exception and prior to further subdivision of the subject
property beyond such approval, an application for an additional special
exception in order that the WBZA may review the request and ensure that such
further subdivision is in accordance with this chapter and meets the standards
for such special exception.
§ 155.206 RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS; MAJOR.
   (A)   Pre-application. From the standpoint of economy of time and money, the
subdivider consults informally with the Administrator for advice and assistance
prior to filing. This will enable the subdivider to become familiar with these
and other regulations as they affect the area and will prevent unnecessary and
costly revisions.
   (B)   Concept plan. The concept plan is required as part of any application
for primary plat approval for major subdivisions. The applicant shall submit
the concept plan to a public meeting of the PPC prior to the primary plat
hearing for the purpose of discussion and recommendations. The concept plan
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except that when the drawing
at that scale requires more than one sheet, the plan may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
The concept plan shall consist of a site analysis map and a site development
map.
      (1)   Site analysis map. A location map which may be prepared by
indicating the required information by notation on available maps of an
appropriate scale. The purpose of the site analysis map is to indicate
consideration and respect for the unique features of a site. A site analysis
map shall include the following:
         (a)   Location of the proposed subdivision, including adjacent parcels
of land;
         (b)   Existing schools, parks, fire, police, and emergency medical
(EMS) facilities that will serve the subdivision;
         (c)   Public thoroughfares that will serve the subdivision;
         (d)   Water and sewer services to serve the subdivision, if
applicable.
         (e)   Primary conservation areas;
         (f)   Secondary conservation areas;
         (g)   Location of streets and thoroughfares including those in
contiguous subdivisions or undeveloped property;
         (h)   Other unique features or characteristics of the site such as
views (to and from the site), impacts (by the subdivision or by surrounding
elements) and geographical features;
         (i)   Indication of the resulting prime location for houses after site
analysis.
      (2)   Site development map. The site development map shall indicate the
proposed layout of the subdivision, including streets, lots, houses and common
areas. In coordination with a primary plat application, the primary plat may
act as the site development map.
      (3)   Public notice. A placard displaying the public meeting date and
relevant information for the concept plan will be posted on the subject site in
a prominent, visible location as the notice of public hearing. The non-
refundable cost of the placard shall be borne by the applicant at the time of
filing as noted in the fee schedule.
      (4)   Public meeting. The concept plan shall go before the PPC for
presentation to and suggestions by the PPC. While no official action shall be
taken, the PPC shall mandate impact assessments to be performed prior to
application for primary plat.
      (5)   Impact assessment. As a result of concept plan review, the PPC may
require that impact assessments be done for discussion at the time of the
primary plat hearing. Impact assessment shall be performed by a qualified
professional with training, experience, and expertise in the field relevant to
the specific section of the study in which work shall be performed. The PPC
shall mandate such studies at the expense of the applicant and of the
professional of choice of the PPC. Such assessment may include any of the
following: traffic and transportation; tax base; water and sewer service; fire,
police, and emergency services; schools; parks. Any additional expense
necessary to ensure adequate information, reports, or plans shall be met by the
applicant.
   (C)   Primary plat. 
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   A subdivider desiring approval of a primary plat of a
subdivision of any land lying within Paoli shall submit their application in
accordance with the application packet adopted by the PPC as part of their
rules and procedures. The application shall be in accordance with filing
deadlines outlined in the application packet. The application shall be
accompanied by an application fee as indicated in the fee schedule. The
application fee shall be non-refundable. Of the application copies submitted,
the Administrator shall forward one copy to each of the following:
            1.   Orange County Surveyor;
            2.   Orange County Health Department;
            3.   Natural Resource Conservation Service Soil Conservationist;
            4.   Paoli Engineer or the town's designee;
            5.   Applicable public utility which may be affected;
            6.   Applicable road or highway superintendent;
            7.   Applicable School Superintendent; and
            8.   Applicable safety services.
         (b)   **The above listed agencies, persons, or town officials shall
forward any comments or recommendations concerning said plat to the
Administrator prior to the date of the scheduled TAC meeting.
      (2)   Plans. The primary plat shall be required as part of any
application for primary plat approval. If applicable, the applicant shall
submit proof of secured public sewer and/or public water connection. The plat
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except that when the drawing
at that scale requires more than one sheet, the plat may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
The primary plat shall be prepared and certified by a land surveyor and/or a
professional engineer registered by the State of Indiana. A primary subdivision
plat shall be submitted showing the following, but not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and consulting
engineer, land surveyor, or planning firm that prepared the plan;
         (c)   Legend and notes including the scale, north point, and date;
         (d)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners;
         (e)   Existing zoning of the tract and all contiguous tracts
surrounding the proposed subdivision;
         (f)   All section and municipal corporate boundaries lying within or
contiguous to the tract;
         (g)   Topographic contours at typical intervals of one foot if the
general slope of the tract is less than 5%, or intervals of two feet if the
slope is in excess of 5%. Said contours shall be referenced to mean sea level
elevations;
         (h)   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers and square
footage of each lot;
         (i)   Building lines showing setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision;
         (j)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, open space (indicating its use as park, playground, natural area, or
other) or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
         (k)   Streets, rights-of-way, and driveways within 500 feet on
adjoining the site of the proposed subdivision showing the names, roadway
widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavements, curbs, sidewalks,
and horizontal curve radii;
         (l)   Existing and proposed easements including the location, width,
and purpose of such easements;
         (m)   Location, size, and capacity of any public sewer and/or water
utilities, if such facilities are available;
         (n)   Location of natural streams, regulated drains, floodplain,
pipelines, power lines, etc.;
         (o)   A description of the surface drainage system to an approved
outlet, including data showing that said outlet is adequate to accommodate the
drainage requirements of the finished subdivision. Arrows designating the
general drainage of all streets and lots shall be included;
         (p)   Location of any subsurface drainage required under the Storm
Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Ordinance and any amendments thereto,
showing the location of all easements and all data pertaining to the size and
capacity of such drainage;
         (q)   The boundaries and numbers of sections shall be shown if the
primary plat is to be divided into sections or phases of development;
         (r)   Protective covenants and restrictions which are properly
prepared and legally sound shall, subject to the approval of the PPC;
         (s)   The required anti-monotony identification standards; and
         (t)   Bufferyard, lighting and parking plans.
      (3)   Public notice. In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-705, once an
application has been determined to be complete and meets all the requirements
of this chapter, the Administrator shall set a date for a public hearing before
the PPC. Notice of public hearing shall be in accordance with the rules and
procedures adopted by the PPC. The cost of notification shall be borne by the
applicant.
      (4)   Decision by the PPC. Within 30 days of the public hearing
concerning an application for approval of a subdivision plat, the PPC shall
notify the applicant in writing stating whether the primary plat is approved or
disapproved.
         (a)   Approval. If the PPC determines that the primary plat complies
with the standards set forth in this chapter, it shall grant primary approval
to the plat.
            1.   The PPC may introduce such changes or revisions as are deemed
necessary to the best interest and general welfare of the community.
            2.   Approval of a primary plat by the PPC signifies the general
acceptability of the layout submitted.
            3.   Approval of a primary plat shall be effective for a maximum
period of two years unless, upon application of the applicant the PPC grants an
extension. The PPC may extend approval of a primary plat to a maximum of four
years without further notice, public hearing, or fees.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the PPC disapproves a primary plat application,
the PPC shall make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in writing
within ten days of the hearing, stating the specific reasons for disapproval.
This written notice shall be signed by the PPC President and the Administrator.
   (D)   Secondary plat.
      (1)   Application. After approval of the primary plat by the PPC and
fulfillment of the requirements of this chapter, the applicant shall submit to
the Administrator a written application for secondary plat approval in
accordance with the application packet adopted by the PPC as part of their
rules and procedures. Such application shall be filed in accordance with filing
deadlines outlined in the application packet. At the time of filing, the
application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as
indicated in the fee schedule. The Administrator shall forward one copy to each
of the individuals and agencies indicated in the previous section regarding
primary plat application. Those agencies or persons shall forward any comments
or recommendations concerning said plat to the Administrator prior to the date
of the scheduled TAC meeting.
      (2)   Plans. 
         (a)   Plat. The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch,
except that when the drawing at that scale requires more than one sheet, the
plat may be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed
24 inches by 36 inches in size. The secondary plat shall be prepared and
certified by a land surveyor and/or a professional engineer registered by the
State of Indiana. The secondary plat may include all or only a part of the
primary plat which has received approval. The following information shall be
shown on the secondary plat, but not limited to:
            1.   Name of subdivision and section number followed by the words
"secondary plat".
            2.   Accurate boundary lines, with dimension and angles, which
provide a legal survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one
foot in 5,000 feet.
            3.   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest official
monument. Reference corners shall be accurately described on the plan.
            4.   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract.
            5.   Accurate metes and bounds description of the tract boundary.
            6.   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the
last entry in the books of the Orange County Recorder.
            7.   Street names.
            8.   Complete curve data for all curves included in the plan.
            9.   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths
of feet with angles to street, alley, and lot lines.
            10.   Lot numbers and dimensions including the square footage of
each lot.
            11.   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and any
limitations on such semi-public or community use.
            12.   Accurate dimensions and plans for any property to be
dedicated or reserved for open space or other public, semi-public, or common
use.
            13.   Building lines and setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision.
            14.   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and
markers.
            15.   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in
this chapter.
            16.   Final protective covenants and restrictions which are
properly prepared and legally sound which shall be incorporated into the plat
and restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become covenants
in the deed for lots.
            17.   The required anti-monotony identification standards.
            18.   Name and address of the owner and subdivider.
            19.   North point, scale, and date.
            20.   Certification of dedication of streets and other public
property.
            21.   Final landscaping, lighting or parking plans shall be
incorporated in the secondary plat design plans when requested by the
Administrator or the PPC.
            22.   Certificate of approval by the PPC.
         (b)   Construction plans. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider of every proposed subdivision to have prepared and certified by a
land surveyor and/or professional engineer registered in the State of Indiana,
a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections,
specifications, and other supporting data for all required public streets,
utilities, and other facilities. The final construction plans shall be based on
preliminary plans which have been approved with the primary plat, and shall be
prepared, submitted, and distributed in conjunction with the secondary plat.
The plans shall show the following:
            1.   Construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn on standard 24-inch by 36-inch sheets at a
scale of no more than one inch equals 50 feet, and map sheets shall be of the
same size as the primary plat.
            2.   Topographic contours at intervals of one foot if the general
slope of the tract is less than 5% or intervals of two feet if the slope
exceeds 5%. Contours shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations.
            3.   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets, the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets
within 100 feet of the intersection. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths
of tangents, and central angles on all streets. Complete curve data for all
curves included in the plan.
            4.   Where steep slopes exist, the PPC may require that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations shall be shown as
follows: on a line at right angles to the center line of the street, and said
elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each property line,
points 25 feet inside each property line, edges of pavement, curbs, break
points, and ditch lines.
            5.   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-
section of streets including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, mailboxes, rights-
of-way, drainage facilities, manholes, and catch basins: the location, size,
and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water
drains, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed
utility systems: the location of street trees, street lighting standards, and
street signs: and exact location and size of all water, gas, or other
underground utilities or structures.
            6.   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate description
of any other existing physical and natural features or facilities including
features noted on the official maps of the town, trees with a diameter of eight
inches or more (measured four feet above ground level), the points of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities, and the approximate high- and
low-water elevations of all ponds, lakes and streams. All elevations shall be
referred to the USGS datum plane.
         (c)   Public notice. Public notice for secondary plats shall be in
accordance with the rules and procedures established by the PPC.
         (d)   Decision by the PPC. Within 30 days after application for
approval of the secondary plat, the PPC shall approve or disapprove it.
            1.   Approval. If the PPC determines that the plat complies with
the standards of this chapter, it shall grant secondary approval to the plat.
After necessary performance surety has been posted, the secondary approval of a
plat by the PPC shall be certified on behalf of the PPC by the PPC President
and the Administrator who shall affix their signatures to the plat original and
all other relevant documents which also may require such signatures.
               a.   Recording. A plat of a subdivision may not be filed with
the Orange County Auditor and the Orange County Recorder may not record it,
unless it has been granted secondary approval by the PPC and has been properly
signed by the PPC President and the Administrator. The filing and recording of
the plat is without legal effect unless approved by the PPC. One copy of the
recorded plat shall be forwarded to the Administrator and the Orange County
Surveyor.
               b.   Improvement location permits. No improvement location
permit shall be issued by the Administrator, or his agent, for any structure on
any subdivision lots prior to the following:
                  i.   The recording of said subdivision by the Orange County
Recorder, except for the purposes of public facilities; and
                  ii.   Installation and completion of all improvements,
including grading, as shown on the development plans and approved by the PPC,
except that in the case of an asphalt road surface, the installation of the
final surface coat may be postponed until the end of the maintenance period.
The final coat of asphalt shall be installed prior to acceptance of the road
for public maintenance.
                  iii.   Written certification from the appropriate Highway
Department and the Orange County Surveyor that improvements are complete.
                  iv.   The release of necessary performance surety and the
posting of necessary maintenance surety.
            2.   Disapproval. If the PPC disapproves the secondary plat, it
shall make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in writing,
stating the specific reasons for disapproval. This written notice shall be
signed by the PPC President and the Administrator.
   (E)   Plats and amendments. For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it
affects any map or plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of any
regulations controlling subdivisions, such change shall be approved by the PPC
by the same procedure, rules, and regulations as for a new subdivision.
   (F)   Appeals. Reserved.
   (G)   Amendments. Reserved.
   (H)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Reserved.
      (2)   Refiling a primary plat. Any applicant shall be required to observe
a six-month waiting period before refiling a primary plat for all or a portion
of the same property which has been disapproved by the PPC.
§ 155.207 COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   In creating commercial subdivisions, it is recognized that the subdivider
often faces unique problems of lot design not normally encountered in
residential subdivisions. For this reason, the initial emphasis of the PPC
shall be upon street layout and lot arrangement.
   (A)   Pre-application. From the standpoint of economy of time and money, the
subdivider must consult informally with the Administrator for advice and
assistance prior to filing. This will enable the subdivider to become familiar
with these and other regulations as they affect the area and will prevent
unnecessary and costly revisions.
   (B)   Concept plan. The concept plan is required as part of any application
for primary plat approval for major subdivisions. The applicant shall submit
the concept plan to a public meeting of the PPC prior to the primary plat
hearing for the purpose of discussion and recommendations. The concept plan
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except that when the drawing
at that scale requires more than one sheet, the plan may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
The concept plan shall consist of a site analysis map and a site development
map.
      (1)   Site analysis map. A location map which may be prepared by
indicating the required information by notation on available maps of an
appropriate scale. The purpose of the site analysis map is to indicate
consideration and respect for the unique features of a site. A site analysis
map shall include the following:
         (a)   Location of the proposed subdivision, including adjacent parcels
of land;
         (b)   Existing schools, parks, fire, police, and emergency medical
(EMS) facilities that will serve the subdivision;
         (c)   Public thoroughfares that will serve the subdivision;
         (d)   Water and sewer services to serve the subdivision, if
applicable.
         (e)   Primary conservation areas;
         (f)   Secondary conservation areas;
         (g)   Location of streets and thoroughfares including those in
contiguous subdivisions or undeveloped property;
         (h)   Other unique features or characteristics of the site such as
views (to and from the site), impacts (by the subdivision or by surrounding
elements) and geographical features;
         (i)   Indication of the resulting prime location for primary
structures after site analysis.
      (2)   Site development map. The site development map shall indicate the
proposed layout of the subdivision, including streets, lots, primary
structures, and common areas. In coordination with a primary plat application,
the primary plat may act as the site development map.
      (3)   Public notice. A placard displaying the public meeting date and
relevant information for the concept plan will be posted on the subject site in
a prominent, visible location as the notice of public hearing. The non-
refundable cost of the placard shall be borne by the applicant at the time of
filing as noted in the fee schedule.
      (4)   Public meeting. The concept plan shall go before the PPC for
presentation to and suggestions by the PPC. While no official action shall be
taken, the PPC shall mandate impact assessments to be performed prior to
application for primary plat.
      (5)   Impact assessment. As a result of concept plan review, the PPC may
require that impact assessments be done for discussion at the time of the
primary plat hearing. Impact assessment shall be performed by a qualified
professional with training, experience, and expertise in the field relevant to
the specific section of the study in which work shall be performed. The PPC
shall mandate such studies at the expense of the applicant and of the
professional of choice of the PPC. Such assessment may include any of the
following: traffic and transportation; tax base; water and sewer service; fire,
police, and emergency services; schools; parks. Any additional expense
necessary to ensure adequate information, reports, or plans shall be met by the
applicant.
   (C)   Primary plat.
      (1)   Format. For primary plats for commercial subdivisions, the
subdivider need show a minimum of two lots along with the street and block
layout.
      (2)   Application. A subdivider desiring approval of a primary plat of a
subdivision of any land lying within Paoli shall submit their application in
accordance with the application packet adopted by the PPC as part of their
rules and procedures. The application shall be in accordance with filing
deadlines outlined in the application packet. The application shall be
accompanied by an application fee as indicated in the fee schedule. The
application fee shall be non-refundable. Of the application copies submitted,
the Administrator shall forward one copy to each of the persons listed below.
These agencies, persons, or town officials shall forward any comments or
recommendations concerning said plat to the Administrator prior to the date of
the scheduled TAC meeting.
         (a)   Orange County Surveyor.
         (b)   Orange County Health Department.
         (c)   Natural Resource Conservation Service Soil Conservationist.
         (d)   Paoli Engineer or town's designee.
         (e)   Applicable public utility which may be affected.
         (f)   Applicable road or highway superintendent.
         (g)   Applicable School Superintendent.
         (h)   Applicable Safety Services.
      (3)   Plans. The primary plat shall be required as part of any
application for primary plat approval. If applicable, the applicant shall
submit proof of secured public sewer and/or public water connection. The plat
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except that when the drawing
at that scale requires more than one sheet, the plat may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
The primary plat shall be prepared and certified by a land surveyor and/or a
professional engineer registered by the State of Indiana. A primary subdivision
plat shall be submitted showing the following, but not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and consulting
engineer, land surveyor, or planning firm that prepared the plan;
         (c)   Legend and notes including the scale, north point, and date;
         (d)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners;
         (e)   Existing zoning of the tract and all contiguous tracts
surrounding the proposed subdivision;
         (f)   All section and municipal corporate boundaries lying within or
contiguous to the tract;
         (g)   Topographic contours at typical intervals of one foot if the
general slope of the tract is less than 5%, or intervals of two feet if the
slope is in excess of 5%. Said contours shall be referenced to mean sea level
elevations;
         (h)   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers and square
footage of each lot;
         (i)   Building lines showing setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision;
         (j)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, open space (indicating its use as park, playground, natural area, or
other) or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
         (k)   Streets, rights-of-way, and driveways within 500 feet on
adjoining the site of the proposed subdivision showing the names, roadway
widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavements, curbs, sidewalks,
and horizontal curve radii.;
         (l)   Existing and proposed easements including the location, width,
and purpose of such easements;
         (m)   Location, size, and capacity of any public sewer and/or water
utilities, if such facilities are available;
         (n)   Location of natural streams, regulated drains, floodplain,
pipelines, power lines, etc.;
         (o)   A description of the surface drainage system to an approved
outlet, including data showing that said outlet is adequate to accommodate the
drainage requirements of the finished subdivision. Arrows designating the
general drainage of all streets and lots shall be included;
         (p)   Location of any subsurface drainage required under the Storm
Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Ordinance and any amendments thereto,
showing the location of all easements and all data pertaining to the size and
capacity of such drainage;
         (q)   The boundaries and numbers of sections shall be shown if the
primary plat is to be divided into sections or phases of development;
         (r)   Protective covenants and restrictions which are properly
prepared and legally sound shall, subject to the approval of the PPC;
         (s)   The required anti-monotony identification standards; and
         (t)   Bufferyard, lighting and parking plans.
      (4)   Public notice. Once an application has been determined to be
complete and meets all the requirements of this chapter, the Administrator
shall set a date for a public hearing before the PPC. Notice of public hearing
shall be in accordance with the rules and procedures adopted by the PPC. The
cost of notification shall be borne by the applicant.
      (5)   Decision by the PPC. Within thirty 30 days of the public hearing
concerning an application for approval of a subdivision plat, the PPC shall
notify the applicant in writing stating whether the primary plat is approved or
disapproved.
         (a)   Approval. If the PPC determines that the primary plat complies
with the standards set forth in this chapter, it shall grant primary approval
to the plat.
            1.   The PPC may introduce such changes or revisions as are deemed
necessary to the best interest and general welfare of the community.
            2.   Approval of a primary plat by the PPC signifies the general
acceptability of the layout submitted.
            3.   Approval of a primary plat shall be effective for a maximum
period of two years unless, upon application of the applicant the PPC grants an
extension. The PPC may extend approval of a primary plat to a maximum of four
years without further notice, public hearing, or fees.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the PPC disapproves a primary plat application,
the PPC shall make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in writing
within ten days of the hearing, stating the specific reasons for disapproval.
This written notice shall be signed by the PPC President and the Administrator.
   (D)   Secondary plat.
      (1)   Format. The secondary plat for commercial subdivisions may be done
in one of three ways:
         (a)   Full plat. The subdivider may submit the secondary plat for the
entire subdivision and then amend the secondary plat as may be necessary.
         (b)   Individual lot. The subdivider may submit the secondary plat for
each lot which will include all necessary infrastructure serving such lot.
         (c)   Individual lot with development plan.
         (d)   The subdivider may submit the secondary plat or an individual
lot along with the application for development plan.
      (2)   Application. After approval of the primary plat by the PPC and
fulfillment of the requirements of this chapter, the applicant shall submit to
the Administrator a written application for secondary plat approval in
accordance with the application packet adopted by the PPC as part of their
rules and procedures. Such application shall be filed in accordance with filing
deadlines outlined in the application packet. At the time of filing, the
application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as
indicated in the fee schedule. The Administrator shall forward one copy to each
of the individuals and agencies indicated in the previous section regarding
primary plat application. Those agencies or persons shall forward any comments
or recommendations concerning said plat to the Administrator prior to the date
of the scheduled TAC meeting.
      (3)   Plans. 
         (a)   Plat. The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch,
except that when the drawing at that scale requires more than one sheet, the
plat may be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed
24 inches by 36 inches in size. The secondary plat shall be prepared and
certified by a land surveyor and/or a professional engineer registered by the
State of Indiana. The secondary plat may include all or only a part of the
primary plat which has received approval. The following information shall be
shown on the secondary plat, but not limited to:
            1.   Name of subdivision and section number followed by the words
"secondary plat".
            2.   Accurate boundary lines, with dimension and angles, which
provide a legal survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one
foot in 5,000 feet.
            3.   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest official
monument. Reference corners shall be accurately described on the plan.
            4.   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract.
            5.   Accurate metes and bounds description of the tract boundary.
            6.   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the
last entry in the books of the Orange County Recorder.
            7.   Street names.
            8.   Complete curve data for all curves included in the plan.
            9.   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths
of feet with angles to street, alley, and lot lines.
            10.   Lot numbers and dimensions including the square footage of
each lot.
            11.   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and any
limitations on such semi-public or community use.
            12.   Accurate dimensions and plans for any property to be
dedicated or reserved for open space or other public, semi-public, or common
use.
            13.   Building lines and setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision.
            14.   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and
markers.
            15.   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in
this chapter.
            16.   Final protective covenants and restrictions which are
properly prepared and legally sound which shall be incorporated into the plat
and restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become covenants
in the deed for lots.
            17.   The required anti-monotony identification standards.
            18.   Name and address of the owner and subdivider.
            19.   North point, scale, and date.
            20.   Certification of dedication of streets and other public
property.
            21.   Final landscaping, lighting or parking plans shall be
incorporated in the secondary plat design plans when requested by the
Administrator or the PPC.
            22.   Certificate of approval by the PPC.
         (b)   Construction plans. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider of every proposed subdivision to have prepared and certified by a
land surveyor and/or professional engineer registered in the State of Indiana,
a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections,
specifications, and other supporting data for all required public streets,
utilities, and other facilities. The final construction plans shall be based on
preliminary plans which have been approved with the primary plat, and shall be
prepared, submitted, and distributed in conjunction with the secondary plat.
The plans shall show the following:
            1.   Construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn on standard 24-inch by 36-inch sheets at a
scale of no more than one inch equals 50 feet, and map sheets shall be of the
same size as the primary plat.
            2.   Topographic contours at intervals of one foot if the general
slope of the tract is less than 5% or intervals of two feet if the slope
exceeds 5%. Contours shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations.
            3.   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets, the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets
within 100 feet of the intersection. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths
of tangents, and central angles on all streets. Complete curve data for all
curves included in the plan.
            4.   Where steep slopes exist, the PPC may require that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations shall be shown as
follows: on a line at right angles to the center line of the street, and said
elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each property line,
points 25 feet inside each property line, edges of pavement, curbs, break
points, and ditch lines.
            5.   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-
section of streets including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, mailboxes, rights-
of-way, drainage facilities, manholes, and catch basins: the location, size,
and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water
drains, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed
utility systems: the location of street trees, street lighting standards, and
street signs: and exact location and size of all water, gas, or other
underground utilities or structures.
            6.   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate description
of any other existing physical and natural features or facilities including
features noted on the official maps of the Town, trees with a diameter of eight
inches or more (measured four feet above ground level), the points of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities, and the approximate high- and
low-water elevations of all ponds, lakes and streams. All elevations shall be
referred to the USGS datum plane.
      (4)   Public notice. Public notice for secondary plats shall be in
accordance with the rules and procedures established by the PPC.
      (5)   Decision by the PPC. Within 30 days after application for approval
of the secondary plat, the PPC shall approve or disapprove it.
         (a)   Approval. If the PPC determines that the plat complies with the
standards of this chapter, it shall grant secondary approval to the plat. After
necessary performance surety has been posted, the secondary approval of a plat
by the PPC shall be certified on behalf of the PPC by the PPC president and the
Administrator who shall affix their signatures to the plat original and all
other relevant documents which also may require such signatures.
            1.   Recording. A plat of a subdivision may not be filed with the
Orange County Auditor and the Orange County Recorder may not record it, unless
it has been granted secondary approval by the PPC and has been properly signed
by the PPC President and the Administrator. The filing and recording of the
plat is without legal effect unless approved by the PPC. One copy of the
recorded plat shall be forwarded to the Administrator and the Orange County
Surveyor.
            2.   Improvement location permits. No improvement location permit
shall be issued by the Administrator, or his agent, for any structure on any
subdivision lots prior to the following:
               a.   The recording of said subdivision by the Orange County
Recorder, except for the purposes of public facilities.
               b.   Installation and completion of all improvements, including
grading, as shown on the development plans and approved by the PPC, except that
in the case of an asphalt road surface, the installation of the final surface
coat may be postponed until the end of the maintenance period. The final coat
of asphalt shall be installed prior to acceptance of the road for public
maintenance.
               c.   Written certification from the appropriate Highway
Department and the Orange County Surveyor that improvements are complete.
               d.   The release of necessary performance surety and the posting
of necessary maintenance surety.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the PPC disapproves the secondary plat, it shall
make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in writing, stating the
specific reasons for disapproval. This written notice shall be signed by the
PPC President and the Administrator.
   (E)   Plats and amendments. As prospective buyers or users express interest
in lots sized to their required specifications, the owner shall submit an
amendment to the approved recorded subdivision plat for consideration. Streets
that have been built by following an approved set of plans on the previously
approved secondary plat shall not have to be rebuilt because of the adoption of
new criteria by the PPC. This shall also apply to storm drainage facilities
within said subdivision unless runoff characteristics have been changed by the
newly proposed improvements or by unauthorized existing improvements.
   (F)   Appeals. Reserved.
   (G)   Amendments. Reserved.
   (H)   Restrictions. Reserved.
§ 155.208 INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   In creating industrial subdivisions, it is recognized that the subdivider
often faces unique problems of lot design not normally encountered in
residential subdivisions. For this reason, the initial emphasis of the PPC
shall be upon street layout and lot arrangement.
   (A)   Pre-application. From the standpoint of economy of time and money, the
subdivider must consult informally with the Administrator for advice and
assistance prior to filing. This will enable the subdivider to become familiar
with these and other regulations as they affect the area and will prevent
unnecessary and costly revisions.
   (B)   Concept plan. The concept plan is required as part of any application
for primary plat approval for major subdivisions. The applicant shall submit
the concept plan to a public meeting of the PPC prior to the primary plat
hearing for the purpose of discussion and recommendations. The concept plan
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except that when the drawing
at that scale requires more than one sheet, the plan may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
The concept plan shall consist of a site analysis map and a site development
map.
      (1)   Site analysis map. A location map which may be prepared by
indicating the required information by notation on available maps of an
appropriate scale. The purpose of the site analysis map is to indicate
consideration and respect for the unique features of a site. A site analysis
map shall include the following:
         (a)   Location of the proposed subdivision, including adjacent parcels
of land;
         (b)   Existing schools, parks, fire, police, and emergency medical
(EMS) facilities that will serve the subdivision;
         (c)   Public thoroughfares that will serve the subdivision;
         (d)   Water and sewer services to serve the subdivision, if
applicable.
         (e)   Primary conservation areas;
         (f)   Secondary conservation areas;
         (g)   Location of streets and thoroughfares including those in
contiguous subdivisions or undeveloped property;
         (h)   Other unique features or characteristics of the site such as
views (to and from the site), impacts (by the subdivision or by surrounding
elements) and geographical features;
         (i)   Indication of the resulting prime location for primary
structures after site analysis.
      (2)   Site development map. The site development map shall indicate the
proposed layout of the subdivision, including streets, lots, primary
structures, and common areas. In coordination with a primary plat application,
the primary plat may act as the site development map.
      (3)   Public notice. A placard displaying the public meeting date and
relevant information for the concept plan will be posted on the subject site in
a prominent, visible location as the notice of public hearing. The non-
refundable cost of the placard shall be borne by the applicant at the time of
filing as noted in the fee schedule.
      (4)   Public meeting. The concept plan shall go before the PPC for
presentation to and suggestions by the PPC. While no official action shall be
taken, the PPC shall mandate impact assessments to be performed prior to
application for primary plat.
      (5)   Impact assessment. As a result of concept plan review, the PPC may
require that impact assessments be done for discussion at the time of the
primary plat hearing. Impact assessment shall be performed by a qualified
professional with training, experience, and expertise in the field relevant to
the specific section of the study in which work shall be performed. The PPC
shall mandate such studies at the expense of the applicant and of the
professional of choice of the PPC. Such assessment may include any of the
following: traffic and transportation; tax base; water and sewer service; fire,
police, and emergency services; schools; parks. Any additional expense
necessary to ensure adequate information, reports, or plans shall be met by the
applicant.
   (C)   Primary plat. 
      (1)   Format. For primary plats for industrial subdivisions, the
subdivider need show a minimum of two lots along with the street and block
layout.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   A subdivider desiring approval of a primary plat of a
subdivision of any land lying within Paoli shall submit their application in
accordance with the application packet adopted by the PPC as part of their
rules and procedures. The application shall be in accordance with filing
deadlines outlined in the application packet. The application shall be
accompanied by an application fee as indicated in the fee schedule. The
application fee shall be non-refundable. Of the application copies submitted,
the Administrator shall forward one copy to each of the following:
            1.   Orange County Surveyor;
            2.   Orange County Health Department;
            3.   Natural Resource Conservation Service Soil Conservationist;
            4.   Paoli Engineer or the town's designee;
            5.   Applicable public utility which may be affected;
            6.   Applicable road or highway superintendent;
            7.   Applicable School Superintendent; and
            8.   Applicable Safety Services.
         (b)   **The above listed agencies, persons, or Town Officials shall
forward any comments or recommendations concerning said plat to the
Administrator prior to the date of the scheduled TAC meeting.
      (3)   Plans. The primary plat shall be required as part of any
application for primary plat approval. If applicable, the applicant shall
submit proof of secured public sewer and/or public water connection. The plat
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except that when the drawing
at that scale requires more than one sheet, the plat may be drawn at a scale of
100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
The primary plat shall be prepared and certified by a land surveyor and/or a
professional engineer registered by the State of Indiana. A primary subdivision
plat shall be submitted showing the following, but not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision.
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and consulting
engineer, land surveyor, or planning firm that prepared the plan.
         (c)   Legend and notes including the scale, north point, and date.
         (d)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners.
         (e)   Existing zoning of the tract and all contiguous tracts
surrounding the proposed subdivision.
         (f)   All section and municipal corporate boundaries lying within or
contiguous to the tract.
         (g)   Topographic contours at typical intervals of one foot if the
general slope of the tract is less than 5%, or intervals of two feet if the
slope is in excess of 5%. Said contours shall be referenced to mean sea level
elevations.
         (h)   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers and square
footage of each lot.
         (i)   Building lines showing setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision.
         (j)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, open space (indicating its use as park, playground, natural area, or
other) or other public, semi-public or community purposes.
         (k)   Streets, rights-of-way, and driveways within 500 feet on
adjoining the site of the proposed subdivision showing the names, roadway
widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavements, curbs, sidewalks,
and horizontal curve radii.
         (l)   Existing and proposed easements including the location, width,
and purpose of such easements.
         (m)   Location, size, and capacity of any public sewer and/or water
utilities, if such facilities are available.
         (n)   Location of natural streams, regulated drains, floodplain,
pipelines, power lines, etc.
         (o)   A description of the surface drainage system to an approved
outlet, including data showing that said outlet is adequate to accommodate the
drainage requirements of the finished subdivision. Arrows designating the
general drainage of all streets and lots shall be included.
         (p)   Location of any subsurface drainage required under the Storm
Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Ordinance and any amendments thereto,
showing the location of all easements and all data pertaining to the size and
capacity of such drainage.
         (q)   The boundaries and numbers of sections shall be shown if the
primary plat is to be divided into sections or phases of development.
         (r)   Protective covenants and restrictions which are properly
prepared and legally sound shall, subject to the approval of the PPC.
         (s)   The required anti-monotony identification standards.
         (t)   Bufferyard, lighting and parking plans.
      (4)   Public notice. Once an application has been determined to be
complete and meets all the requirements of this chapter, the Administrator
shall set a date for a public hearing before the PPC. Notice of public hearing
shall be in accordance with the Rules and Procedures adopted by the PPC. The
cost of notification shall be borne by the applicant.
      (5)   Decision by the PPC. Within 30 days of the public hearing
concerning an application for approval of a subdivision plat, the PPC shall
notify the applicant in writing stating whether the primary plat is approved or
disapproved.
         (a)   Approval. If the PPC determines that the primary plat complies
with the standards set forth in this chapter, it shall grant primary approval
to the plat.
            1.   The PPC may introduce such changes or revisions as are deemed
necessary to the best interest and general welfare of the community.
            2.   Approval of a primary plat by the PPC signifies the general
acceptability of the layout submitted.
            3.   Approval of a primary plat shall be effective for a maximum
period of two years unless, upon application of the applicant the PPC grants an
extension. The PPC may extend approval of a primary plat to a maximum of four
years without further notice, public hearing, or fees.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the PPC disapproves a primary plat application,
the PPC shall make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in writing
within ten days of the hearing, stating the specific reasons for disapproval.
This written notice shall be signed by the PPC President and the Administrator.
   (D)   Secondary plat. 
      (1)   Format. The secondary plat for industrial subdivisions may be done
in one of three ways:
         (a)   Full plat. The subdivider may submit the secondary plat for the
entire subdivision and then amend the secondary plat as may be necessary.
         (b)   Individual lot. The subdivider may submit the secondary plat for
each lot which will include all necessary infrastructure serving such lot.
         (c)   Individual lot with development plan.
         (d)   The subdivider may submit the secondary plat or an individual
lot along with the application for development plan.
      (2)   Application. After approval of the primary plat by the PPC and
fulfillment of the requirements of this chapter, the applicant shall submit to
the Administrator a written application for secondary plat approval in
accordance with the application packet adopted by the PPC as part of their
rules and procedures. Such application shall be filed in accordance with filing
deadlines outlined in the application packet. At the time of filing, the
application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as
indicated in the fee schedule. The Administrator shall forward one copy to each
of the individuals and agencies indicated in the previous section regarding
primary plat application. Those agencies or persons shall forward any comments
or recommendations concerning said plat to the Administrator prior to the date
of the scheduled TAC meeting.
      (3)   Plans.
         (a)   Plat. The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch,
except that when the drawing at that scale requires more than one sheet, the
plat may be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed
24 inches by 36 inches in size. The secondary plat shall be prepared and
certified by a land surveyor and/or a professional engineer registered by the
State of Indiana. The secondary plat may include all or only a part of the
primary plat which has received approval. The following information shall be
shown on the secondary plat, but not limited to:
            1.   Name of subdivision and section number followed by the words
"secondary plat".
            2.   Accurate boundary lines, with dimension and angles, which
provide a legal survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one
foot in 5,000 feet.
            3.   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest official
monument. Reference corners shall be accurately described on the plan.
            4.   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract.
            5.   Accurate metes and bounds description of the tract boundary.
            6.   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the
last entry in the books of the Orange County Recorder.
            7.   Street names.
            8.   Complete curve data for all curves included in the plan.
            9.   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths
of feet with angles to street, alley, and lot lines.
            10.   Lot numbers and dimensions including the square footage of
each lot.
            11.   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and any
limitations on such semi-public or community use.
            12.   Accurate dimensions and plans for any property to be
dedicated or reserved for open space or other public, semi-public, or common
use.
            13.   Building lines and setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision.
            14.   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and
markers.
            15.   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in
this chapter.
            16.   Final protective covenants and restrictions which are
properly prepared and legally sound which shall be incorporated into the plat
and restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become covenants
in the deed for lots.
            17.   The required anti-monotony identification standards.
            18.   Name and address of the owner and subdivider.
            19.   North point, scale, and date.
            20.   Certification of dedication of streets and other public
property.
            21.   Final landscaping, lighting or parking plans shall be
incorporated in the secondary plat design plans when requested by the
Administrator or the PPC.
            22.   Certificate of approval by the PPC.
         (b)   Construction plans. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider of every proposed subdivision to have prepared and certified by a
land surveyor and/or professional engineer registered in the State of Indiana,
a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections,
specifications, and other supporting data for all required public streets,
utilities, and other facilities. The final construction plans shall be based on
preliminary plans which have been approved with the primary plat, and shall be
prepared, submitted, and distributed in conjunction with the secondary plat.
The plans shall show the following:
            1.   Construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn on standard 24-inch by 36-inch sheets at a
scale of no more than one inch equals 50 feet, and map sheets shall be of the
same size as the primary plat.
            2.   Topographic contours at intervals of one foot if the general
slope of the tract is less than 5% or intervals of two feet if the slope
exceeds 5%. Contours shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations.
            3.   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets, the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets
within 100 feet of the intersection. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths
of tangents, and central angles on all streets. Complete curve data for all
curves included in the plan.
            4.   Where steep slopes exist, the PPC may require that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations shall be shown as
follows: on a line at right angles to the center line of the street, and said
elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each property line,
points 25 feet inside each property line, edges of pavement, curbs, break
points, and ditch lines.
            5.   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-
section of streets including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, mailboxes, rights-
of-way, drainage facilities, manholes, and catch basins: the location, size,
and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water
drains, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed
utility systems: the location of street trees, street lighting standards, and
street signs; and exact location and size of all water, gas, or other
underground utilities or structures.
            6.   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate description
of any other existing physical and natural features or facilities including
features noted on the official maps of the town, trees with a diameter of eight
inches or more (measured four feet above ground level), the points of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities, and the approximate high- and
low-water elevations of all ponds, lakes and streams. All elevations shall be
referred to the USGS datum plane.
      (4)   Public notice. Public notice for secondary plats shall be in
accordance with the rules and procedures established by the PPC.
      (5)   Decision by the PPC. Within 30 days after application for approval
of the secondary plat, the PPC shall approve or disapprove it.
         (a)   Approval. If the PPC determines that the plat complies with the
standards of this chapter, it shall grant secondary approval to the plat. After
necessary performance surety has been posted, the secondary approval of a plat
by the PPC shall be certified on behalf of the PPC by the PPC President and the
Administrator who shall affix their signatures to the plat original and all
other relevant documents which also may require such signatures.
            1.   Recording. A plat of a subdivision may not be filed with the
Orange County Auditor and the Orange County Recorder may not record it, unless
it has been granted secondary approval by the PPC and has been properly signed
by the PPC President and the Administrator. The filing and recording of the
plat is without legal effect unless approved by the PPC. One copy of the
recorded plat shall be forwarded to the Administrator and the Orange County
Surveyor.
            2.   Improvement location permits. No improvement location permit
shall be issued by the Administrator, or his agent, for any structure on any
subdivision lots prior to the following:
               a.   The recording of said subdivision by the Orange County
Recorder, except for the purposes of public facilities.
               b.   Installation and completion of all improvements, including
grading, as shown on the development plans and approved by the PPC, except that
in the case of an asphalt road surface, the installation of the final surface
coat may be postponed until the end of the maintenance period. The final coat
of asphalt shall be installed prior to acceptance of the road for public
maintenance.
               c.   Written certification from the appropriate Highway
Department and the Orange County Surveyor that improvements are complete.
               d.   The release of necessary performance surety and the posting
of necessary maintenance surety.
         (b)   Disapproval. If the PPC disapproves the secondary plat, it shall
make written findings of fact and notify the applicant in writing, stating the
specific reasons for disapproval. This written notice shall be signed by the
PPC President and the Administrator.
   (E)   Plats and amendments. As prospective buyers or users express interest
in lots sized to their required specifications, the owner shall submit an
amendment to the approved recorded subdivision plat for consideration. Streets
that have been built by following an approved set of plans on the previously
approved secondary plat shall not have to be rebuilt because of the adoption of
new criteria by the PPC. This shall also apply to storm drainage facilities
within said subdivision unless runoff characteristics have been changed by the
newly proposed improvements or by unauthorized existing improvements.
   (F)   Appeals. Reserved.
   (G)   Amendments. Reserved.
   (H)   Restrictions. Reserved.
§ 155.209 WAIVERS.
   Subdivisions.
   (A)   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would
cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in the opinion of
the PPC, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, a
departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions, the PPC
may authorize a waiver, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-702(c). Any waiver must be
requested at the time of primary plat or secondary plat application. Any waiver
thus authorized is required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the PPC
and the reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set forth.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-702(c), the standards for subdivisions may be
waived at the discretion of the PPC; however, to be approved, the plat must
still meet all applicable standards prescribed in the UDO (other than standards
modified by variance by the BZA). As a condition of granting a waiver, the PPC
may allow or require a commitment(s) to be made under the rules governing
commitments.
§ 155.210 PERFORMANCE AND MAINTENANCE SURETIES.
   (A)   Performance surety. Before the plat is signed by the officers of the
PPC or is recorded, the subdivider shall file a performance bond or irrevocable
letter of credit with the Administrator.
      (1)   Letter of credit or bond. The performance bond or letter of credit
shall:
         (a)   Cover 100% of the installation costs of the streets, surface
swales, subsurface and storm drainage systems, and seeding/erosion control.
         (b)   Run to the Town Council.
         (c)   Be in an amount determined by the Town Council to be sufficient
to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this chapter.
The subdivider's engineer shall supply an estimate of the cost of improvements
and installations on the project to aid in determination of the amount of
surety. The engineer's estimate, however, shall not be binding.
         (d)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Town Council. Comply with all
statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the counsel for the Town
Council as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in these
regulations.
      (2)   Responsibility of the subdivider. All required improvements shall
be made by the applicant, at his expense, without reimbursement by the town.
         (a)   In those cases where performance surety has been posted and
required improvements have not been installed within the terms of such
performance surety, the town may thereupon declare the surety to be in default
and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of
the building development at the time the surety is declared to be in default.
         (b)   Any money received from the surety or otherwise shall be used
only for making the improvements and installations for which the surety was
provided.
         (c)   The subdivider shall be required to maintain at his expense a
certified civil engineer or engineering firm on the job site to manage the
construction of the subdivision improvements. The on-site engineer shall
certify that the subdivision construction is in compliance with the detailed
construction plans submitted to the PPC during the review of the secondary
plat. The on-site engineer shall submit weekly progress reports to the
Administrator during construction and should notify the Administrator, Paoli
Engineer, and other appropriate officials when important work has been
scheduled so that the town may conduct an inspection. A final report shall be
submitted to the PPC and the Town Council by the engineer or his firm. If the
Paoli Engineer (or the town's designee) finds upon inspection that any of the
required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the town's
construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible
for completing the improvements. Wherever the cost of improvements is covered
by performance surety, the applicant and the bonding company shall be severally
and jointly liable for completing the improvement according to specifications.
         (d)   The Town Council shall not accept any of the required
improvements nor release the performance surety until the applicable officials
have submitted a final inspection report. Such a report shall state that all
required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and that the layout of
all public improvements is in accordance with the construction plans submitted
by the subdivider's engineer for the development. Only after this step should
the Town Council consider acceptance of the improvements and the release of the
performance surety.
      (3)   Affidavit requirement for residential subdivisions. An owner of a
single-family lot shall be required to submit an affidavit at the time of
application for an improvement location permit. The affidavit must provide the
following requirements on the signed document:
         (a)   A narrative portion which describes the developer's
responsibility to disclose to all builders the platting requirements of the
anti-monotony zoning provisions which will be enforced by the PPC;
         (b)   A detailed list of all pre-conditioned platting requirements
that are required for the intended residential lot; and
         (c)   A narrative portion which discloses the anti-monotony platting
requirements will not be subject to change, unless a plat amendment is filed
with the PPC.
      (4)   Inspections.
         (a)   Road inspection. It shall be the duty of the subdivider to
notify the appropriate Highway Department before any construction commences on
the curbs, gutters, public walks, or roads in the subdivision, such that the
inspector may run any and all tests required during the construction period.
         (b)   Sewer and water inspection. It shall be the duty of the
subdivider to notify the applicable sewer utility and water utility, before any
construction commences such that the sanitarian may run any and all tests
required on the sewage disposal and water supply facilities in said
subdivision.
         (c)   Drainage inspection. It shall be the duty of the subdivider to
notify the Orange County Surveyor before commencing construction so that any
and all tests may be run on the drainage structures and the grading of the
subdivision during the entire construction period.
      (5)   Completion period. The period within which required improvements
must be completed shall not in any event exceed two years from date of final
approval.
      (6)   Extension. The Town Council may, upon proof of difficulty, extend
the completion date set forth in such surety for a maximum period of one
additional year. The Town Council may at any time during the period of such
surety accept a substitution of principal or sureties on the surety upon
recommendation of counsel for the Town Council.
   (B)   Maintenance surety. Upon completion of all subdivision improvements
and the release of the performance surety and prior to acceptance of these
improvements into the Paoli maintenance system, the subdivider shall provide a
three-year maintenance bond or irrevocable letter of credit. Upon completion of
all infrastructure installation, the plans for such systems as built shall be
filed with the office of the PPC.
      (1)   Letter of credit or bond. The maintenance bond or letter of credit
shall:
         (a)   Be in an amount equal to 20% of the cost of said improvements
and installations as indicated in establishment of the performance surety.
         (b)   Cover any necessary maintenance needed for the streets, surface
swales, subsurface and storm drainage systems, and seeding/erosion control
during the three-year maintenance period.
         (c)   Run to the Town Council.
         (d)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Town Council.
      (2)   Responsibility of the subdivider. 
         (a)   The subdivider shall warrant the workmanship and all materials
used in the construction, installation, and completion of said improvements and
installations to be of good quality and have been constructed and completed in
a workmanlike manner in accordance with the standards, specifications, and
requirements of this chapter and the satisfactory plans and specifications for
the subdivision by the PPC.
         (b)   Any money received from the surety or otherwise shall be used
only for making the improvements and installations for which the surety was
provided.
      (3)   Affidavit requirement for residential subdivisions. 
      (4)   Inspections. Near the end of the three-year maintenance period and
before the maintenance surety is scheduled to expire, the Administrator shall
schedule an inspection of the subdivision. If the applicable officials find
upon inspection that any of the required improvements are in need of repair, he
shall notify the Administrator, the Town Council, and subdivider of those items
in need of repair, and he shall prepare a report documenting such items. The
subdivider shall be required to complete the repairs and upon the satisfactory
completion of such repairs may request that the Town Council assume maintenance
of all subdivision improvements and release the maintenance bond. Until
acceptance of the subdivision improvements by the town, it shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider to maintain the subdivision to the standards
of the town.
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
§ 155.220 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted or defined as follows. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense. The term “shall” means mandatory. For any terms or words not
found, the definition in the current edition of the Merriam-Webster’s
Dictionary shall apply.
   ABANDONED. Any use or structure (principal, accessory, land use, etc.) that
has not been utilized for its principal function for a period of six
consecutive months as documented by any means necessary by the Administrator.
   ACCESS STREET, MARGINAL. See STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate building or structure detached from but
located on the same lot as a principal building which does not alter or change
the character of the premises. Agricultural buildings, public utility
communications, electric, gas, water, and sewer lines, their supports and
incidental equipment, and public telephone booths shall be considered accessory
structures even though no principal building exists on the premises.
   ACCESSORY USE (see also HOME OCCUPATION). A use that:
      (1)   Is clearly incidental and customarily found in connection with a
principal building or use; is subordinate to and serves the principal use;
      (2)   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal use
served;
contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants, business,
or industry of the principal use served;
      (3)   Is located on the same lot as the principal use served.
   ACT. A bill which has passed through the various legislative steps required
for it and which has become law.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Paoli Town Council or a person designated by the Paoli
Town Council to provide staff support to the PPC and BZA and to enforce the
zoning ordinance under the supervision of the PPC.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized for the conduct of agriculture-
related operations but not including dwellings used for human occupancy.
   AGRICULTURE. Areas in which the general use of land is devoted to one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Tillage of soil in the production of crops.
      (2)   Production or maintenance of hay and pasture crops.
      (3)   Husbandry, production, or housing of livestock, poultry, horses,
swine, cows, ox, cattle, calves, donkeys, ass, burro, mules, sheep, goats, and
their products, excluding only dogs and other small animals commonly kept as
household pets.
      (4)   Growing of trees for the production of timber or timber products,
erosion control and other purposes commonly found in agricultural areas.
      (5)   This definition does not apply to home gardens or community gardens
(maintained by a non-profit organization). For animal restrictions within town
limits, please refer to §
155.103(J)(1) and Title IX,
Chapter 90, of the Town of Paoli Code of Ordinances.
   AIRPORT. Any area which is used or intended to be used for the taking off
and landing of aircraft and any appurtenance areas which are used or intended
to be used for airport buildings or facilities, including open spaces,
taxiways, and tie-down areas.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way other than a street, road, crosswalk, designed to
provide a secondary means of access for the special accommodation of the
property it reaches.
   ANIMAL DAY CARE FACILITY. Any facility in which four or more dogs or other
small animals that are commonly kept as household pets, which are at least
three months old, and where the primary use of the facility is to care for
those animals during the day-time hours. Overnight boarding of the animals at
the facility is prohibited.
   ANTENNA. Device designed to convert electrical signals from a cable to
electro-magnetic radiation in the air.
   APPLICANT. The owner(s) of real estate or their agent who makes application
to the PPC or BZA for action that would affect the real estate.
   AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A building, or portion thereof, where automobiles,
trucks, or other self-powered vehicles are washed by mechanical devices of any
type.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. Any building, premises, and land in which or upon which a
business, service, or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, or repair
of vehicles is conducted or rendered.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure, or land used primarily
for the dispensing or sale of any automobile fuels, oils, or accessories. This
includes lubrication and replacement or installation of minor parts or
accessories, but does not include major repair work such as motor replacement,
transmission replacement, body and fender repair, or spray-painting.
   AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER, FARM IMPLEMENT, AND CONSTRUCTION
MACHINERY SALES AREA. An open area other than a street or public right-of-way,
used for the display, sale, or rental of new or used motor vehicles, mobile
homes, travel trailers, farm implements and construction machinery.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BATTERY. An electrochemical storage device consisting of either Nickel Metal
Hydride (NiMH), Nickel Cadmium (NiCad), or Lead (Pb).
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A residential building, or portion thereof - other than a
motel, apartment hotel or hotel - containing lodging rooms for accommodation of
five or more persons who are not members of the keeper's family and where
lodging or meals or both are provided by pre-arrangement and for definite
periods and for compensation.
   BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISE SIGN.
   BLOCK. An area that abuts a street and lies between two intersecting streets
or barriers such as railroad rights-of-way or watercourses.
   BOOKSTORE. A business established for the retail trade of books, magazines,
or similar literature, excluding adult or sexually oriented materials.
   BUFFERYARD. A unit of yard together with the planting thereon required to
separate land uses from each other.
   BUILDING. Any enclosed structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property of any kind
and includes any structure.
   BUILDING AREA. The horizontal projected area of the buildings on a lot or
premises, excluding open areas or terraces, unenclosed porches not more than
one-story high, and architectural features that project no more than two feet.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground level to
the highest point of the roof for a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard
roof; and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip and
gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The employee or officer of the PPC who is empowered to
inspect and approve ILPs, and to act as the agent of the Administrator in any
other matter concerning the enforcement of the applicable building code
ordinances.
   BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a
lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way line.
   BUILDING PERMIT. See ILP.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with another
building.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   BZA. The Board of Zoning Appeals for the Town of Paoli, Indiana.
   CAMP GROUND. A parcel of land used or intended to be used for temporary
occupancy by campers, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, mobile homes,
tents, etc.
   CANOPY TREE. A tree that has a canopy that grows to 35 feet or higher at
full maturity.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead (human or animal) and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbarium, crematories, mausoleums
and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of
such cemetery.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating that the occupancy and use
of land or a building or structure referred to therein complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
   CHURCH or TEMPLE. A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related
social events and which buildings, together with accessory buildings and uses,
is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious
ceremonies and purposes.
   CLEAN FILL SITE. A facility or site specifically designed and restricted to
the disposal, processing and/or reclamation of off-site generated,
uncontaminated and untreated stone, bricks, or concrete; road demolition waste
materials; natural growth including tree limbs and grass clippings; sawdust
from untreated natural wood; and other items not included in the above
definition if subsequently approved by the Orange County Solid Waste Management
District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. Clean fill
sites shall be classified into one of the following types:
      (1)   Long-term permitted clean fill disposal site.
      (2)   Temporary permitted clean fill disposal site.
      (3)   Long-term permitted clean fill processing site.
      (4)   Temporary permitted clean fill processing site.
      (5)   Temporary permitted clean fill land reclamation site.
   CLINIC. A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm or injured persons, and those who are in need of medical and
surgical attention, but which building does not provide board, room or regular
hospital care and services.
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
person or group for a social, literary, political, educational or recreational
purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests excluding
adult or sexually oriented activities. This does not include any use or
activity rendering a service usually and ordinarily carried out as a business
including restaurants or food service.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any wording, logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
   COMMITMENT. A covenant concerning the use or development of a parcel of real
property which is made in writing by the owner of that parcel, either
voluntarily or in accordance with an order or request of the PPC, BZA, or the
appropriate legislative body.
   COMMON AREA. An area that is held in common by an owners' association, is
not located in rights-of-way, and is not located on individually owned private
property.
   COMPOST/DIGESTER FACILITY. A specific type of composting facility.
   COMPOSTING. The biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic component of vegetative matter and other types of organic
material; the compost may be used as:
      (1)   A soil conditioner.
      (2)   A cover material for a solid waste landfill.
      (3)   Another use approved by the Orange County Solid Waste Management
District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A solid waste processing facility specifically designed
and operated for the express purpose of composting.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan for the Town of Paoli, Indiana as
approved by the Paoli Town Council and as amended from time to time.
   CONCEPT PLAN. An informal review of a proposed subdivision by the PPC at a
public hearing to alert applicants to problems and requirements prior to an
official submission for the purpose of saving time and money for all parties.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the occupants,
such as yards, foundations, basements, floors, walls, hallways, stairways,
elevators, and all other related common elements, together with individual
ownership in fee of a particular unit or portion of such building, which
building shall be the same as dwelling, multi-family.
   CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION. As defined in I.C. 13-11-2-40:
      (1)   Any confined feeding of 300 or more cattle, 600 or more swine or
sheep and 30,000 or more fowl;
      (2)   Any animal feeding operation where the operator elects to come
under the Act;
      (3)   Any animal feeding operation that violates Chapter 214 of the Act
of 1943 as determined by the Water Pollution Control Board of the State of
Indiana; or
      (4)   As defined by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
latest revisions or amendments.
   CONSERVATION AREA. Designated open space further defined as primary and
secondary conservation areas.
      PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS. Include wetlands, lands that are generally
inundated, land within areas that have been identified on the community's flood
hazard boundary map (FHBM) as Zone A, and slopes exceeding 25%.
      SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS. Typically include parks and natural
resources such as forests, meadows, farm fields, wildlife habitat, and water
quality protection or other reasons.
   CONSERVATION AREA, PRIMARY. This category includes wetlands, lands that are
generally inundated (under ponds, lakes, or creeks), land within the 100-year
floodplain, and slopes exceeding 25%.
   CONSERVATION AREA, SECONDARY. This category shall typically include all or
part of the following kinds of resources: woodlands; aquifer recharge areas;
poorly drained soils; significant wildlife habitat areas; prime farmland;
historic, archaeological or cultural features listed (or eligible to be listed)
on national, state, or county registers or inventories; scenic views into the
property from existing public roads; or other features unique to the site.
Secondary conservation areas therefore typically include forest, meadows,
pastures, and farm fields, part of the ecologically connected matrix of natural
areas significant for wildlife habitat, water quality protection or other
reasons.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION SITE. A solid-waste land disposal facility, or site,
designed and operated to accommodate large volumes of solid waste, having
minimal potential for ground water contamination. Further, in the Orange County
Solid Waste Management District, a construction/demolition site is to be
specifically designed and restricted to the disposal, processing, and/or
reclamation of only construction or demolition waste to include bricks;
concrete; stone; glass; wallboard; lumber; roofing materials; other items which
are affixed to the structure being constructed or demolished including plumbing
fixtures; wiring and non-asbestos insulation; and other items not included in
the above definition if subsequently approved by the Orange County Solid Waste
Management District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   COUNTY. The County of Orange, Indiana.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A commercial facility or single-family home licensed and/or
regulated by the Indiana Department of Public Welfare for the care and/or
education of human beings. A day care center shall not be considered a home
occupation.
   DBH. Diameter at breast height.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing a lot or group of lots or
structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A specific plan for the development of real property that:
      (1)   Requires approval by the PPC under the 1400 Series of I.C. 36-7-4-
1400;
      (2)   Includes a site plan;
      (3)   Satisfies the development requirements specified in the ordinance
regulating the development; and
      (4)   Contains the plan documentation and supporting information required
by the ordinance regulating development.
   DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT. Development standards plus any additional
requirements which must be satisfied in connection with the approval of a
development plan.
      (1)   As relates to review and approval of development plans, a
requirement:
         (a)   For development of real property in a zoning district for which
a development plan is required; and
         (b)   That conforms to I.C. 36-7-4-1403.
      (2)   As relates to planned unit development a requirement:
         (a)   For development of real property in a planned unit development
district that must be met; and
         (b)   That conforms to I.C. 36-7-4-1508.
   DIAPER SERVICE. A business that supplies and delivers both diapers as well
as provides laundry services for soiled diapers in accordance with the
applicable regulations.
   DIRECTOR. See ADMINISTRATOR.
   DISTRICT. A specified zoning district within the jurisdictional area or
extended jurisdictional area for which uniform regulations governing the use,
height, area, size, and intensity of use of buildings and land, and open spaces
about buildings, are herein established.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. An establishment selling foods, frozen desserts, or
beverages to consumers, the establishment being designed, intended, or used for
the consumption of such items on the premises outside of the building in which
they were prepared.
   DRUG STORE. A store where the primary business is the filling of medical
prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies, and non-
prescription medicines but where non-medical products may be sold as well.
   DUPLEX. A duplex is considered a "two-family dwelling" and development
standards are the same as single-family dwellings (because they fall under the
same building code). Multi-family applies to structures with three or more
units in them.
   DWELLING. A building or part of a building that is used primarily as a place
of abode, but not including a hotel, motel, lodging house, boarding house, bed
and breakfast, or mobile home as defined in this chapter.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied by
three or more families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding
the number of dwelling units provided. This includes duplexes.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
and occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including provisions for living, eating, sleeping and cooking. The term shall
include mobile and manufactured homes but shall not include recreational
vehicles.
   EASEMENT. An authorization or grant by a property owner to specific persons,
the general public, corporations, utilities, etc. for the purpose of providing
services or access to the property.
   ESTABLISHED FRONT SETBACK. See SETBACK, ESTABLISHED FRONT.
   ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. This phrase means and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
entertainment business, to any of the adult entertainment businesses defined
herein;
      (3)   The addition of any of the adult entertainment businesses defined
herein to any other existing adult entertainment business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such business.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living as single housekeeping unit, but not
including a group occupying a hotel, motel, club, nursing home, dormitory,
fraternity or sorority house.
   FARM. See AGRICULTURE.
   FENCE. An accessory structure constructed of wood, metal, masonry, or other
material, that is erected for the purpose of impeding movement, assuring
privacy, or providing protection. In no case shall the fence or its material
resemble junk or be assembled from junk.
   FILLING STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building or structure from the exterior face of exterior walls, or
from the centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but excluding any space
where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
   FLOOR AREA, GROUND. Same as FLOOR AREA, NET except computed for the ground
floor only.
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The sum in square feet, at grade, computed from the outside
dimensions of the structure. It does not include garage area, crawl space,
attic area, porches, patios, elevator shafts, display windows, etc.
   FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation, storage, or processing of food products.
   FRATERNITY, SORORITY OR STUDENT HOUSING. A building used as group living
quarters for a student body or religious order as an accessory use for a
college, university, boarding school, convent, monastery, or other similar
institutional use.
   FRONTAGE. The distance at which a property or properties is located along a
dedicated street or road.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A street that is parallel to and adjacent to a thoroughfare
and that is designed to provide access to abutting properties so that these
properties are somewhat sheltered from the effects of the through traffic on
the thoroughfare is not impeded by direct driveway access from a large number
of abutting properties.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any garage, other than private garage, for the parking of
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL. A structure that is accessory to a residential
building and that is used for the parking and storage of vehicles owned and
operated by the residents thereof and that is not a separate commercial
enterprise available to the general public.
   GARAGE, TRUCK REPAIR. A building, other than a parking garage or private
residential garage, used for the care, repair, or equipment of trucks, over one
ton (2,000 pounds), or where such vehicles are parked or stored for
remuneration, hire, or sale.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in terms
of percentage.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A facility licensed by the State of Indiana,
which provides a home-like setting to the developmentally disabled and/or the
mentally ill who need the benefits of a group living situation as an
alternative to hospitalization or institutionalization.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity; concentration; or physical, chemical, and/or infectious
characteristics; may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness: or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or
otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE LANDFILL. A facility approved by the EPA and sited by the
State of Indiana for the disposal of hazardous wastes as defined elsewhere in
this chapter.
   HELIPORT. See AIRPORT.
   HOME OCCUPATION or CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on by an
occupant at his or her place of residence in accordance with the requirements
of this UDO.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation and which is open to transient guests,
in contradiction to a boarding house or lodging house.
   ILP (IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT). A permit which is written permission
issued by the Administrator for the construction, repair, alteration, or
addition to a structure that complies with the development standards of the
zoning ordinance and applicable building codes.
   INCINERATOR. An engineered apparatus or solid waste processing facility
designed for the burning of solid waste under the effect of controls of
temperature, retention time, air, and other combustion factors.
   INDUSTRIAL, GENERAL. Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage, or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes, in which operations, other than transportation, may be
performed in either open or closed areas.
   INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT. Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage, or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes, in which all operations, other than transportation, are
performed entirely within enclosed buildings and for which all loading and
unloading facilities are enclosed.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A tract of land that is planned and developed as a
distinctive unit featuring landscaped open spaces and well-designed structures
to be used for research, offices, experimental, and testing laboratories, light
industrial, storage and distribution facilities, and for necessary uses to the
convenience of employees, and is controlled by an organization guaranteeing the
continued maintenance of all commonly used areas and installations.
   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, semi-trailer, school bus,
recreational vehicle, etc. that lacks a motor, drive train, wheels, axles,
transmission, etc; also a vehicle which does not carry a current year state
registration or license tag.
   INSTITUTION. Any home, orphanage, or other facility maintained or conducted
by a group of persons, a firm, association, corporation, or governmental body
engaged in receiving and caring for dependent, neglected, handicapped, or
permanently disabled persons, or children in danger of becoming delinquent or
in operating for gain a private business of boarding children who are
unattended by parents or guardians, or persons in loco parentis.
   INTERNAL ILLUMINATION. A means of sign illumination in which the characters,
letters, fixtures, designs or outlines are illuminated from the inside or
behind the sign by electric lights or tubes.
   JUNK. Waste, discarded or salvaged materials that are used, bought, sold,
baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including automobile parts and
inoperable or currently unlicensed vehicles, used furniture, household
equipment, used or salvaged materials from manufacturing equipment, operations,
or motor vehicles, and such other materials as may from time to time be
designated by the Administrator.
   JUNK YARD. Any lot, parcel, or tract of real estate, platted or un-platted,
at which personal property is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale, or
reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed, collected,
accumulated, dismantled, or assorted, including but not limited to used or
salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, bags, paper matter. This also includes property used for the
dismantling, wrecking, storage, sale, or dumping of two or more inoperative
motor vehicles or their parts. For purposes of this definition, this includes
junk yard activities occurring indoors and/or outdoors. This shall not include
tractors, combines, pickers, discs, plows, or other similar farm machinery that
is owned by a farm operator and is used for parts replacement for machinery
currently being used in the farming operation.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. The incorporated area within the municipal boundaries
of the Town of Paoli as well as the area of extended jurisdiction as amended
from time to time by the Town Council.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which there are located four to 25 run cages,
pens and/or animal housing units for dogs or other small animals that are
commonly kept as household pets, at least four months old and where the primary
use of the facility is to breed and/or board the animals, whether on a
temporary or long-term basis. All animals must be licensed in accordance with
county regulations.
   LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR. A person, partnership, or corporation involved in the
business of growing, storing, planting, installing, and otherwise caring for
live-trees, shrubs, flowers, etc.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Town Council for the Town of Paoli.
   LIFE CARE FACILITY. A facility for the housing and care of elderly residents
that may or may not contain on-site health care facilities.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area required for the receipt
or the distribution, by vehicles, of material or merchandise.
   LOT. A platted parcel or tract of land of at least sufficient composition to
meet minimum zoning requirements and provide such yards and other open spaces
as are hereby required.
   LOT AREA. The area of horizontal plan bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side, and rear lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of or abutting two or more intersecting
streets. Corner lots have two front yard setbacks and two side yard setbacks.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total ground area within the lot or project covered by the
primary structure, plus any accessory structures (including decks, patios,
swimming pools, garages, carports, and storage sheds), excluding driveways,
sidewalks, fences, and walls not attached in any way to a roof.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot with access provided to the majority of the lot by means of
a narrow corridor.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a "lot, corner" or "lot, through".
   LOT LINE. A line dividing one lot from another lot or from a street or
alley.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. Any property line separating the lot from a street, or on a
flag lot, the interior lot line most parallel to and nearest the street from
which access is obtained.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Any property line which is not intersecting and most distant
from and most closely parallel to the front lot line. A lot bounded by only
three lot lines will not have a rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary-line, not a front lot line or rear lot
line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location, and dimensions have been
legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat recorded in the office of
the Orange County Recorder, provided that such lot meets the development
standards and requirements for lots in the district in which it was located at
the time of recording.
   LOT, PERIMETER. A subdivision lot that either:
      (1)   Has a lot line that abuts the right-of-way of a street or frontage
road located on the perimeter of the subdivision; or
      (2)   Is separated from the right-of-way of a street located on the
perimeter of the subdivision by a common area.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured at the
required front setback line or building line, whichever is less.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. All primary traffic corridors entering or leaving the
town including, but not limited to, SR 37, SR 56, and U.S. 150.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE, ADJACENT TO A. Any lot or lots located near a major
thoroughfare which lot (or lots) is not separated from the major thoroughfare
by another buildable lot.
   MAJOR UTILITY EASEMENT. Easements for high-voltage electric transmission
lines used for trans-county or trans-state distribution; or easements for high-
volume conveyance of natural gas or petroleum in underground pipelines for
trans-county or trans-state distribution.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Formerly known as a "mobile home," a manufactured home is
built to the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) and
displays a red certification label on the exterior of each transportable
section. A manufactured home was constructed after June 15, 1976, and is
defined in I.C. 16-41-27-3.5, as a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which, in traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40
body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
compiles with the standards established under the cited Federal chapter; and
except that such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As defined in I.C. 16-41-27-5 a manufactured home
park is a manufactured home community on one or more parcels of land.
      (1)   That contain individual lots that are leased or otherwise
contracted;
      (2)   That are owned, operated, or under the control of one or more
persons; and
      (3)   On which a total of at least five manufactured homes are located
for the purposed of being occupied as principle residences. The term includes
the following:
         (a)   All real and personal property used in the operation of the
mobile home community.
         (b)   A single parcel of land.
         (c)   Contiguous but separately owned parcels of land that are jointly
operated.
         (d)   Parcels of land:
            1.   Jointly operated; and
            2.   Connected by a private road.
         (e)   One or more parcels of land, if at least two of the mobile homes
or manufactured homes located on the land are:
            1.   Accessible from a private road or interconnected private
roads;
            2.   Served by a common water distribution system; or
            3.   Served by a common sewer or septic system.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, TEMPORARY. The temporary placement of a manufactured home
permitted with an ILP (duration of ILP identified in § 155.103(E)(2)(b)1. and §
155.103(G)) for one of the following purposes:
      (1)   Temporary residence for persons intending to build a permanent
residence on the same property.
      (2)   Temporary residence of a manufactured home adjacent to the
permanent residence of someone who is able to provide care or in need of care.
      (3)   Temporary use of a manufactured home, trailer, or van as a
contractor's office, watchman's shelter, or tool and equipment storage on the
project site and only during the period of construction.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODES. Title VI of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 USC 5401 et sequential), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted there under (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a Design
Approval Primary Inspection Agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the Indiana Department of Fire and Safety, all
of which became effective for manufactured home construction on June 15, 1976.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electrical apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointment, or other such similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his behalf
will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefore.
However, massage as used in this chapter shall not apply to the activity of any
person who is registered or licensed by the United States Government or any
agency thereof, by the State of Indiana or any agency thereof, by Orange County
or any agency thereof, or registered or licensed by any agency or association
authorized to so register or license by any statute or ordinance of the United
States, the State of Indiana, or Orange County, while such person so registered
or licensed is performing the services for which the registration or license
was issued and during the period of time said registration or license is in
effect.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage as herein defined and which
has a fixed place of business where any person, firm, association, or
corporation engages in, or carries on any of the activities as defined in a
massage.
   MAXIMUM DENSITY. A unit of measurement which represents the maximum number
of residential units per acre of land on the aggregate total land to be
developed, exclusive of rights-of-way of perimeter streets, floodway areas, and
areas designated as primary conservation areas or other non-developable areas.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. Activities including mining or quarrying, and the
removal of earth materials.
   MOBILE HOME. Now known as a "manufactured home," a mobile home was
constructed prior to June 15, 1976 and even with modifications, does not meet
the HUD standards and cannot be accepted as compliant with the HUD Code. A
mobile home is defined in I.C. 16-41-27-4 as a dwelling, including the
equipment sold that is a dwelling, that:
      (1)   Is factory assembled;
      (2)   Is transportable;
      (3)   Is intended for year-round occupancy;
      (4)   Is designed for transportation on its own chassis; and
      (5)   Was manufactured before the effective date of the federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law of 1974 (42 U.S.C.
5401 et seq.). See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOTEL. See HOTEL.
   NIGHT CLUB. An establishment dispensing liquor and/or meals and in which
music, dancing, or entertainment is conducted, excluding adult or sexually
oriented activities.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Lots, structures, uses of land, and/or zoning districts
which were lawful before this chapter was amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future
amendments.
   NURSING HOME. A facility licensed by the State of Indiana that provides
nursing and health care services on a continuing basis to persons of all ages
who may require medical treatment but not hospitalization.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more resources or
the disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land disposal method as prescribed
by law or regulations, and that is established and maintained without cover and
without regard to the possibilities of contamination of surface or subsurface
water resources.
   OPEN SPACE. Common area that provides light and air and is designed for
environmental, scenic, or recreational purposes. Cropland, forested areas, or
pastureland qualifies as open space. Open space may include turf areas,
decorative plantings, walkways, active and passive recreation areas,
playgrounds, and wooded areas. Open space shall comprise primary conservation
areas and secondary conservation areas. Open space shall not include areas
devoted to public or private streets or rights-of-way.
   ORPHANAGE. An institution for the care of children whose parents are
incapacitated or deceased.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying
zones and that imposes additional requirements above that required by the
underlying zone.
   PARENT LOT, TRACT, OR PARCEL. The lot, tract, or parcel of land for which
approval is sought to subdivide it into at least two lots, tracts, parcels, or
other divisions of land for sale, development or lease.
   PARKING AREA. Any public or private area, under or outside of a building or
structure, designed and used for parking and maneuvering motor vehicles
including garages, private driveways, and legally designated areas of public
streets.
   PARKING SPACE. A space other than on a street or alley designed for use or
used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle.
   PERIMETER LOT. See LOT, PERIMETER.
   PERIMETER THOROUGHFARE. See THOROUGHFARE, PERIMETER.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association, or
organization, or any other group that acts as a unit.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A district established to allow development of an
area of land as a single entity for a number of uses conforming to an approved
development plan, which may not correspond with number of units, bulk, type of
use, density, open space, parking, signage, landscaping, or other standards
required by other ordinances; a zoning district for which a PUD ordinance is
required.
   PLANNER. The employee of the PPC who is empowered to inspect sites for
compliance with this chapter and act as the agent of the Administrator in any
other matter concerning the enforcement of this chapter.
   PLANT NURSERY. Land, buildings, structures or a combination thereof for the
storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs, or plants offered
for retail or wholesale sale on the premises including products used for
gardening and landscaping.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land
intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT COMMITTEE. In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-701(e), a sub-committee
created by the Plan Commission to hold hearings on minor residential
subdivisions and re-plats on behalf of the PPC in accordance with the rules and
procedures of the PPC.
   PPC. The Advisory Plan Commission of Paoli, Indiana.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE. A building in which the primary use of the lot or
premises on which it is located is conducted, including a building that is
attached to such a building in a substantial way, such as by a roof. With
respect to residential uses, the primary building shall be the main dwelling.
   PRIMARY USE. The predominant use of any lot or parcel or as determined by
the primary structure.
   PRIME FARMLAND. Land that has the best combination of physical and chemical
characteristics for producing food, feed, forage, fiber, and oilseed crops and
is also available for these uses (land cannot be urban built-up land or water).
It has the soil quality, growing season, and moisture supply needed to
economically produce sustained high yields or crops when treated and managed,
including water management, according to acceptable farming methods. In
general, prime farmlands have an adequate and dependable water supply from
precipitation or irrigation, a favorable temperature and growing season,
acceptable acidity or alkalinity, acceptable salt and sodium content, and few
or no rocks. They are permeable to water and air. Prime farmlands are not
excessively erodible or saturated with water for a long period of time, and
they either do not flood frequently or are protected from flooding. These areas
are defined and illustrated on the map Important Farmlands as defined in 1975
by Cartographic Division, Soil Conservation Service, USDA, of Orange County,
Indiana as amended.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or structures as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. A private primary, grade, high or preparatory school or
academy not supported by public tax dollars.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. A building or group of buildings housing professional
offices and appropriate associated and accessory uses.
   PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES. Those services including, but not limited to Police,
Fire, EMS, and Public Works Departments.
   PUBLIC SEWER UTILITY. A municipal or public sewage disposal service that has
been issued a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC)
granting a certificate of territorial authority (CTA) to the Utility and
maintains said CTA in good standing with the IURC.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A municipal or public utility service which has been issued
a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission granting an
applicable certificate to the utility and maintains said certificate in good
standing with the IURC.
   PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS. The erection, construction, alteration,
operation or maintenance of buildings, power plants, substations, water and
sewage treatment plants, pumping stations, and other similar public service
structures by a public utility, railroad or by a municipal or other
governmental agency.
   PUBLIC WATER UTILITY. A municipal or public water utility service that has
been issued a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC)
granting a certificate of necessity and convenience (CNC) to the Utility and
maintains said CNC in good standing with the IURC.
   PUD. Planned unit development.
   PUD DISTRICT. A zoning district for which a PUD District ordinance is
adopted.
   PUD DISTRICT ORDINANCE. A zoning ordinance that meets the requirements of
series 1500 (I.C. 36-7-4-1500) and does the following:
      (1)   Designates one or more parcels of real property as a PUD District.
      (2)   Specifies uses or range of uses permitted in the PUD District.
      (3)   Expresses in detailed terms the development requirements that apply
in the PUD District.
      (4)   Specifies the plan documentation and supporting information that
must be supplied before an ILP may be issued for development of real property
in the PUD District.
      (5)   Specifies any limitation applicable to a PUD District; and
      (6)   Meets the requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-1503.
   RECOVERY. Obtaining materials or energy for commercial or energy for
commercial or industrial use from solid waste or hazardous waste.
   RECREATION AREA. An area designated, designed, and equipped for the conduct
of sports and leisure-time activities.
   RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR. A place primarily designed and equipped for the
conduct of sports and leisure-time activities indoors.
   RECREATION FACILITY, OUTDOOR. An area primarily designed and equipped for
the conduct of outdoor sports and leisure-time activities. Such facility may be
either public or private.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle designed as a temporary living quarters
for recreation, camping or travel, either with their own motor power or mounted
or towed by another powered vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
   RECYCLING. A process by which materials that would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated or processed, and converted into materials or
products for reuse or sale.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The processing of solid waste into commercially valuable
materials or energy.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A solid waste processing facility designed and
operated for the express purpose of processing solid waste into commercially
valuable materials or energy.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY SYSTEM. A solid waste management system that provides for
collection, separation, recycling, and recovery of solid and/or non-hazardous
wastes including the disposal of non-recoverable waste residues.
   RESTRICTED WASTE SITE. A solid waste land disposal facility designed and
operated to accommodate specific types of waste as specified in 329 I.A.C. 2-9.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities, and/or other special public uses.
   ROADSIDE PRODUCE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the
display or sale of agricultural and related products.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A solid waste land disposal facility designed to
accommodate general types of solid waste as elsewhere defined in this chapter,
excluding waste regulated by 329 I.A.C. 3, and operated by spreading the waste
in thin layers, compacting it to the smallest practical volume, and covering it
with cover material at the end of each working day. This definition does not
include a clean fill site, or a construction/demolition site, which are defined
elsewhere in the chapter.
   SCREENED-IN PORCH. A single-story structure architecturally incorporated
into a primary structure, with a screened area in excess of 60% of the gross
area of the structure's exterior walls.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM, PRIVATE. A septic tank, filtration field and subsurface
drainage if required, which are located on an individual lot. Installations of
such a system shall be based on the requirements of the Orange County Sewage
Disposal and Drainage Ordinance as administered by the Orange County Health
Department.
   SERVICE STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   SETBACK, ESTABLISHED FRONT. The least measured distance between the right-
of-way line and the nearest point on the primary structure's foundation.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by the zoning ordinance defining the limits
of a yard in which no building or structure may be located except as may be
excluded in said ordinance.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult entertainment or service business that
is part of the sex industry and is a site of erotic performance, erotic
paraphernalia sales, and/or other sexually-oriented places. Sexually oriented
businesses may include the following:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a preponderance of its stock
in trade or its dollar volume in trade, books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, theatre, restaurant or similar
establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless
dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers,
where such performances are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas and/or
which regularly feature films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons.
      ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open lot or part thereof, with appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the presentation of motion pictures, films,
theatrical productions and other forms of visual productions, for any form of
consideration, to persons in motor vehicles or on outdoor seats in which a
preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theatre, adult mini motion picture theatre, adult motion picture arcade, adult
cabaret, adult drive-in theater, adult live entertainment arcade or adult
service establishment.
      ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ARCADE. Any building or structure which contains
or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly
is charged a fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth a series of
live dance routines, strip performances or other gyrational choreography which
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. Any building or structure which
contains or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or
indirectly is charged a fee, with a capacity of more than five but less than 50
persons, used for presenting films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the total
presentation time is devoted to the showing of materials which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. Any building or structure which contains or
is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee, with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
in which a preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the
showing of materials which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, premises, structure or other
facility, or any part thereof, under common ownership or control which provides
a preponderance of services involving specified sexual activities or display of
specified anatomical areas. Said services includes any combination of two or
more of the following activities:
         (a)   The sale or display of books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (b)   The presentation of films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or similar photographic reproductions which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons,
         (c)   The operation of coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors or other image producing devices to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (d)   Live performance by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers, where such
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
         (e)   The operation of a massage establishment.
   SHARED DRIVEWAY. A single driveway that serves two to four adjacent lots
pursuant to access easements.
   SIGN. Any name, number, symbol, identification, description, display,
graphic, or illustration which is affixed to, painted on, or is represented
directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or piece of land, visible
from any public right-of-way which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business. Religious
symbols on places of worship or structures owned and operated by religious
organizations shall not be considered a sign unless accompanied with text. This
definition includes backlighted plastic panels or strip lighting affixed to any
wall or roof where any such panels or lighting serve to identify a business and
attract attention rather than to illuminate space for human activity. For
purposes of this chapter, the following signs are defined.
      ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of artificial and
natural lighting or noise to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
This includes any directly or indirectly illuminated sign that exhibits
changing natural or artificial light or color effects by any means whatsoever.
Different from an ELECTRONIC SIGN, an animated sign produces the illusion of
movement by means of electronic, electrical, or electro-mechanical input and/or
illumination capable of simulating movement through using the characteristics
of one or both of the classifications noted below:
         (a)   Flashing. Animated signs or animated portions of a sign where
the cyclical period between on-off phases of illumination is less than four
seconds.
         (b)   Patterned illusionary movement. Animated signs or portions of
signs whose illumination is characterized by simulated movement.
      AWNING SIGN. A sign that is attached to an awning, canopy, or other
fabric that serves as a structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area.
      BANNER. A non-rigid cloth, plastic, paper, flag, or canvas sign typically
related to a special event or promotion, that is cultural, educational,
charitable, or recreational in its function, under the sponsorship of a for-
profit establishment or business, or a public, private non-profit, or religious
organization. Banners also include streamers or ribbon-shaped or cord-like rope
which may have pennants and/or banners attached and which is stretched or hung
between two or more points of support intended to attract attention.
      BENCH SIGN. Any sign painted on, located on, or attached to any part of
the surface of a bench, seat, or chair placed on or adjacent to a public
roadway.
      BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISE SIGN.
      CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged by mechanical, electronic or
manual means without altering the face or surface of the sign.
      ELECTRONIC SIGN. A sign activated by or illuminated by means of
electrical energy whose variable message capability can be electronically
programmed.
      HANGING SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
      INFLATABLE SIGN. Any device which is capable of being expanded by any gas
and used on a permanent or temporary basis to attract attention to a product or
event. This definition includes both hot and cold-air balloons tethered or
otherwise anchored to the ground.
      INFORMATIONAL SIGN. Any on-premise sign which contains no commercial
message of any sort and which provides, for example, directions for control of
traffic , enter/exit, hours of operation, no smoking, beware of dog, no
trespassing, security system present, or other necessary regulatory
information. Informational signs shall not contain the name or logo of an
establishment or any type of advertising for products or services offered on
site.
      MARKER.
         (a)   A sign that indicates the name of a building, date, or other
incidental information about its construction that is cut into a masonry
surface, cast in bronze, or made or other material.
         (b)   A sign that identifies a product in agricultural areas,
typically used to identify seed types used in agricultural fields.
      MONUMENT SIGN. A sign in which the bottom edge of the sign face is
permanently affixed to the ground. Monument, freestanding or pylon are other
names for a monument sign.
      MURAL. An image painted onto the side of a building, wall, or structure,
or applied to the ground, sidewalk, parking lot, or similar area. A mural sign
is regulated as a wall sign in this chapter when it contains a commercial
message. Murals without a commercial message are not regulated by this chapter.
      OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment conducted sold, or offered elsewhere than
upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed. Also
called billboard.
      POLE SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are placed
on and anchored in the ground and that are independent from any building or
structure. A pole sign uses said structures to raise the sign face above the
ground more than four inches.
      PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground, building,
or other permanent structure. This includes signs that are designed to be:
         (a)   Moved/transported by means of wheels or other mechanisms;
         (b)   Trailer signs that are attached to, supported by, or part of a
structure which is designed to move on trailer wheels, skids, or other similar
devices, or transported, pushed, or pulled by a motor vehicle;
         (c)   Converted to A-frames or T-frames such as menu or sandwich board
signs;
         (d)   Balloons used as signs;
         (e)   Umbrellas used for advertising; and
         (f)   Other portable devices or structures used for signage.
      PROJECTING SIGN. A sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon a
building for support or suspended from a pole attached to a building. Such
signs must be perpendicular to the building face upon which they are attached.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign partially or fully erected on or above the roof line
of a building.
      SCOREBOARD. An electronically-controlled changeable copy sign used to
display scoring information for sporting events. Such signs are located on or
along sports fields.
      SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign associated with an abandoned use, a sign that
remains after the termination of the business, or a sign on its immediate
premises not adequately maintained or repaired.
      UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A sign that identifies the name of a shopping
center, office park, industrial park, or other development that contains three
or more uses within a single development. A unified development sign is allowed
in addition to the permitted signs of the individual tenants.
      VEHICLE SIGN.
         (a)   A sign that is permanently affixed to the body of, an integral
part of, or a fixture of a motor vehicle that is parked or left standing so
that it is visible from a public street for a period of more than 72 continuous
hours for the intent of being used as advertisement. For the purpose of this
definition, "permanently affixed" shall mean any of the following:
            1.   Painted directly on the body of a motor vehicle;
            2.   Applied as a decal on the body of a motor vehicle; and/or
            3.   Placed in a location on the body of motor vehicle that was
specifically designed by a vehicle manufacturer.
         (b)   This regulation is not intended to prohibit businesses from
having parked vehicles with business logos provided the vehicles are in daily
use for the business.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign attached to or erected against the inside or outside
wall of a building or structure, with the exposed display surface of the sign
in a plane parallel (or relatively parallel) to the plane of the building or
structure.
      WAYFINDING SIGN. A sign erected by the municipality or a multi-tenant
development that displays necessary identification information for the
convenience and safety of residents and visitors, and containing no
advertising. This includes government-erected signs found along major roadways
that display company logos for lodging, gasoline stations, restaurants, and
other such establishments. Also includes directional signs that provide
information regarding location, instructions for use, or functional/directional
information.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, poster, symbol, or other type of identification or
information about the use or premises directly attached to the window of a
building or erected on the inside or outside of the window, which is legible
from any part of a public right-of-way or adjacent property. For purposes of
this definition, a "window" is defined as an opening in the wall or roof of a
building or vehicle that is fitted with glass or other transparent material in
a frame to admit light or air and allow people to see out.
   SIGN AREA. The face of the entire display area, not including the bracing,
framing, and structural supports of the sign, unless such support members are
made part of the message or face of the sign. Where a sign has two or more
display faces, the area of all faces of the sign shall be included in
determining the sign area, unless the two faces are joined back to back, are
parallel to each other and not more than 24 inches apart. The area of the sign
consisting of individual letters or symbols, either freestanding or attached to
or painted on a surface, building, wall, or window, shall be considered to be
that of the smallest single rectangle which encompasses all the letters and
symbols.
   SIGN FACE. The surface intended for the display of information on the sign.
   SIGN, HEIGHT ABOVE GROUND. The vertical measurement from the ground to the
top of the sign. The height of all signs shall be measured from the established
grade line to the highest point of the sign or its frame/support.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting
either by light on or in the sign or directed toward the sign.
   SIGN, LEGAL NON-CONFORMING. A preexisting legal sign, or portion thereof,
which was designed, erected, or structurally altered such that it does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. A sign attached to a building, structure, or the ground in
a manner that enables the sign to resist environmental loads, such as wind, and
precludes ready removal or movement of the sign. The use of anchor bolts,
ropes, stakes, chains, glue, or similar anchoring are not methods recognized by
this chapter as a permanent foundation.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supporting unit of a sign face, including but not
limited to frames, braces cabinets, and poles.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign that is temporarily used for a specific duration
of time and is not affixed to a permanent foundation or structure. A temporary
sign is used for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge, or ideas to
the public about activities on the premises. These signs are intended to be on-
site for the duration of an event (e.g. property for sale, special events,
grand openings, sales, etc). Temporary signs should also only be permitted
during business or event hours.
   SITE PLAN. A plan prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensions, the boundaries of a site and the location of all buildings,
structures, uses, and principal site development features, interior vehicular
and pedestrian access proposed for a specific parcel of land.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage; refuse; sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; or other discarded
materials including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, or agricultural operations or
from community activities. However, the term solid waste does not include:
      (1)   Solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or solid or
dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges, which
are point sources subject to permits under Section 402 of the Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments (33 U.S.C. 1342);
      (2)   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et. seq.); or
      (3)   Manures or crop residues returned to the soil at the point of
generation as fertilizers or soil conditioners as part of a total farm
operation (P.L. 143-1985, Section 90).
   SOLID WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY. A solid waste facility upon which is
located a solid waste incinerator, transfer station, solid waste baler, solid
waste shredder, resource recovery system, composting facility, garbage grinding
facility, and other facilities, or recycling facilities, not included in the
above definition if subsequently approved by the Orange County Solid Waste
Management District and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION. A facility for the collection, separation,
compaction, processing and storage of solid waste until said waste can be
transported or transferred to a sanitary landfill or other facility approved
and licensed for the disposal of solid wastes by the State of Indiana.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The authorization of a use, designated as being permitted
in the district concerned if it meets special conditions, and upon application,
is specifically authorized by the BZA.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. This phrase means and includes any of the
following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. This phrase means and includes any of the
following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (4)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
      (6)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a
human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
items (1) through (6) above.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building in which horses are kept for private
use and not for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. An accessory building in which horses are kept for
commercial use including boarding, hire, riding, show, or sale.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STORY. That part of a building between the surface of a floor and the
ceiling immediately above; or if there is a floor above, the portion of a
building between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor
above. A basement shall not be counted as a story.
   STREET or ROAD. A right-of-way established for or dedicated to the public
use, which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person having an interest in land that is the subject of an
application for subdivision. Also, a person submitting an application for
subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land for sale, development or
lease.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR RESIDENTIAL. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of
land into five or more residential lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
land for sale, development or lease over a period of ten or less years. The
parent lot, tract or parcel of land counts as one of the subdivided lots,
tracts, parcels or other subdivisions of land for the purpose of determining
whether the application for approval is to be treated as a major or minor
residential subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR RESIDENTIAL. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of
land into two to four residential lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
land for sale, development or lease over a period of ten or more years. The
parent lot, tract or parcel of land counts as one of the subdivided lots,
tracts, parcels or other subdivisions of land for the purpose of determining
whether the application for approval is to be treated as a major or minor
residential subdivision.
   SUNROOM. A single-story structure architecturally incorporated into a
primary structure, projecting from that structure, with a glazing area in
excess of 40% of the gross area of the sunroom structure's exterior walls.
   SWIMMING POOL. A self-contained body of water at least 18 inches in depth
used for recreational purposes. Such body of water may exist in a metal tank,
plastic lined or masonry structure located either above or-below ground level.
Swimming pools may be either public or private in use. A private pool is
considered as an accessory use.
   TEMPLE. See CHURCH or TEMPLE.
   THOROUGHFARE. See STREET.
   THOROUGHFARE, PERIMETER. An existing or proposed street that either lies on
the edge of or passes through a proposed subdivision and is designated in the
Thoroughfare Plan with a functional classification of collector or higher.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The portion of the Comprehensive Plan which identifies
the existing and proposed locations of interstate highways, primary arterials,
secondary arterials, feeders and local roads and streets and rights-of-way
within the jurisdictional area, as amended from time to time under I.C. 36-7-4-
506.
   TOWN. The incorporated constituent areas under the jurisdiction of this UDO.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. A secretarial or business school or college when
not publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable, or non-profit organization, or a school conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching music, dancing, barbering, hair dressing,
drafting, or industrial or technical arts.
   TRANSFER STATION. A solid waste processing facility at which solid waste is
transferred from a vehicle or a container to another vehicle or container for
transportation, but shall not include neighborhood recycling collection centers
or transfer activities at generating facilities.
   TRUCK SERVICE CENTER. An occupancy, which provides especially for the
servicing of trucks, with incidental operations similar to those permitted for
"automobile service station".
   UDO. The Unified Development Ordinance for the Town of Paoli as approved by
the Paoli Town Council and as amended from time to time.
   USE. The specific purposes, for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter for
the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and district.
   VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A facility where the primary use is
for a licensed veterinarian and his/her supervised staff to care for,
diagnosis, and treat sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those in need
of medical or surgical attention. Temporary boarding on the premises as an
accessory use is allowed.
   VIDEO STORE. A business where videos and associated visual home
entertainment products are sold, rented, or otherwise distributed, excluding
sexually oriented material.
   WAREHOUSE/SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES. A building with one or more storage
spaces used primarily for the storage of goods, equipment, and materials. The
following are prohibited in WAREHOUSES/SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES: (1)
manufacturing or processing; (2) use as a residence; and/or (3) storage of
combustible, explosive, or hazardous materials.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any towers, poles, antennas or other
structures intended for use in connection with transmission or receipt of radio
or television signals, or any other spectrum-based transmissions/receptions.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with principal building, open, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and similar
structures, the depth of which is the perpendicular distance between the street
right-of-way line and the front setback line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the main building and the rear lot line the depth of which is the
perpendicular distance between the rear lot line and the rear setback line.
   YARD SALE. Garage sales, rummage sales, yard sales, and the like shall mean
the sale of personal property from a residentially occupied site, provided that
such sale shall not extend beyond three consecutive days and further that they
may be conducted to a maximum of four times in a calendar year.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending across the full length of the lot, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts, and similar
structures, the depth of which is the perpendicular distance between the side
lot line and the side setback line.
   ZONE MAP. The map or maps that are a part of the zoning ordinance and
delineate the boundaries of zone districts and any amendments thereto of the
jurisdictional area of the PPC.
   ZONING DISTRICT. See DISTRICT.
(Am. Res. 2017-04, passed 8-1-17; Am. Res. 2019-01, passed 2-5-19)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   TAX ABATEMENT
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain lands located in Section 1, Township 1
                     North, Range 1 West; Section 6, Township 1 North, Range 1
1969-7   10-14-69    East; the North half of Section 12, Township 1 North,
                     Range 1 West; Section 31, Township 2 North, Range 1 East;
                     and Section 36, Township 2 North, Range 1 West, each
                     parcel as more particularly described in the ordinance.
                     Annexing certain lands located in the Southwest quarter of
                     Section 35, Township 2 North, Range 1 West and the
1974-1   7-22-74     Southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 2 North, Range 1
                     West, each parcel as more particularly described in the
                     ordinance.
—      4-14-75     Annexing certain lands owned by Harry Longest, as more
                     particularly described in the ordinance.
                     Annexing that portion of State Highway 37 from the south
—      8- -78      intersection with West Water Street to the south corporate
                     limits, changing the name to Southwest First Street, and
                     providing street numbering for all places thereon.
                    
 
TABLE II: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Res.  2-28-  Issuance of Economic Development Revenue Bonds in the amount of
1983- 83     $500,000.
1
1985- - -    Issuance of Waterworks Revenue Bonds.
2
1989- 4-24-  Refunding of Waterworks Revenue Bonds, Series 1985A and Series 1985B
5     89     and authorizing the issuance of Waterworks Refunding Revenue Bonds of
             1989.
1991- 10-21- Issuance of Waterworks Revenue Bonds to cover the cost of projects
7     91     which shall not exceed $472,000.
             Issuance of Sewage Works Revenue Bonds for the purpose of providing
2001- 1-16-  funds to pay the cost of refunding of outstanding bond anticipation
2     01     note and constructing certain additions, extensions and improvements
             to the Sewage Works.
Res.         Issuance of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2007 for acquisition,
2007- 5-1-07 construction and improvement of a new town park facility and all
4            functionally related fixtures, furnishings and equipment.
             The Town Council expresses its intention to reimburse certain
Res.         preliminary costs and expenses of the installation of certain
2009- 3-3-10 improvements and extensions to the town sewage works, in an estimated
04           aggregate principal amount of $888,000 of certain Sewage Works
             Revenue Bonds.
2010- 4-20-  Issuance of Sewage Works Revenue Bonds, not to exceed the estimated
03    10     amount of $1,525,000, to pay for the installation of certain
             improvements to the sewage works system.
Res.  6-22-  The town shall provide $271,480 from the issuance of bonds toward the
2010- 10     local match on a Disaster Recovery II grant to improve the water
03           system.
2010- 9-21-  Issuance of Sewage Works Refunding Revenue Bonds of 2010 to refund
05    10     $1,530,000 of the aggregate principal of the Sewage Works Revenue
             Bonds of 2001.
2015- 3-9-15 Issuance of Waterworks Refunding Revenue Bonds of 2004, Series A and
02           B now outstanding in the amount of $4,104,100.
2015- 8-18-  Issuance of First Mortgage Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not
03    15     to exceed $4,400,000.
2020- 10-6-  Issuance of revenue bonds to fund improvements for the sewage works
09    20     system in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $15,750,000.
Res.         Extension of the town's outstanding Sewage Works Revenue Bond
2021- 9-7-21 Anticipation Note, Series 2020.
08A
Res.  11-16- Second extension of the town's outstanding Sewage Works Revenue Bond
2021- 21     Anticipation Note, Series 2020.
10
Res.  1-18-  Third extension of the town’s outstanding Sewage Works Revenue Bond
2022- 22     Anticipation Note, Series 2020.
01
            
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Authorizing the sale of a part of the Lot number 9 in
Res. —     8-8-77      the Throop Addition, as more particularly described in
                         the ordinance.
                         Authorizing the purchase of the L & N Railroad right-
Res. —     11- -78     of-way from the eastern end to the section line
                         between Sections 34 and 35, Township 2 North, Range 1
                         West.
                         Approving a proposed lease between Paoli Public
Res. 2008-03 8-19-08     Library Building Corporation and Paoli Public Library,
                         Orange County, Indiana, for the lease of library
                         facilities.
                        
 
TABLE IV: TAX ABATEMENT
Cross-reference:
Economic Revitalization Areas, see §§
33.20 et seq.
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Designating the property known as the Paoli, Inc.
                         building and grounds as an Economic Revitalization
Res. 1989-3  10-19-89    Area, to be eligible for tax abatement on the
                         improvements and equipment therein, subject to the
                         terms of the adopting resolution.
                         Designating the property known as the Ridgewood
                         Dimension, Inc. building and grounds as an Economic
Res. 1989-4  10-19-89    Revitalization Area, to be eligible for tax abatement
                         on the improvements and equipment therein, subject to
                         the terms of the adopting resolution.
                         Waiving non-compliance with the filing deadline form
Res. 2016-05 7-19-16     SB-1/Real property (Tractor Supply Company) and CF-2/
                         Real property for tax abatement purposes.
                         Waiving non-compliance with the filing deadline for
Res. 2017-02 7-18-17     Form SB-1/Real property (Tractor Supply Company) and
                         CF-1/Real property (TDAK Development, Inc.) for tax
                         abatement.
                         Waiving non-compliance with the filing deadline form
Res. 2017-03 7-18-17     SB-1 /real property, form CF-1/real property, form SB-
                         1/personal property, and form CF-1/personal property
                         for Liner Products, LLC for tax abatement purposes.
                         Granting a property tax abatement of ten years to
Res. 2019-05 11-6-19     Electricom LLC for real estate improvements made at
                         1660 West Hospital Road.
Res. 2020-01 6-16-20     Granting a tax abatement for real estate improvements
                         and personal property (Green Acres Golf LLC).
Res. 2020-03 8-4-20      Granting a tax abatement for real estate improvements
                         (Green Acres Golf LLC-Amended Application).
Res. 2022-03 4-5-22      Granting a tax abatement for real estate improvements
                         (Windhorst Properties LLC Application).
                         Waiving non-compliance with the filing deadline for
Res. 2023-04 8-1-23      Form CF-1 for Windhorst Properties LLC tax abatement
                         purposes.
                         Waiving non-compliance with the filing deadline for
Res. 2023-05 8-1-23      Form CF-1 for Green Acres Golf LLC tax abatement
                         purposes.
                        
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
1984- 5-14-84  Vacating a portion of Lingle Avenue between U.S. Highway #150 and Fair
2              Street, between lots 2 and 3 in Block “D” of the High School Addition.
1984- 9-24-84  Vacating a part of a 26 foot unnamed alley located in the Ellis Addition,
7              immediately to the east of Lot #16 in the Ellis Addition.
2001- 1-16-01  Vacating an unnamed street being 50 feet in width in the Knob Hill
1A             Subdivision.
2001- 11-20-01 Vacating a portion of the plat of Forest Heights Addition.
7
2011- 10-4-11  Vacating a street and alley in part of the High School Addition.
08
2012- 6-5-     Vacating a utility easement in part of the Hospital View Subdivision.
09    12   
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                        Code Section
1-1-1-5                             10.04
1-1-1-7                             10.13
1-1-1-8                             10.06
1-1-4-5                             10.05
1-1-5-1                             10.12
1-1-6-1                             10.08
3-5-2-40.1                          34.09
4-21.5-3-7                          150.40
4-21.5-5                            51.45
                                    30.40,
5-3-1                               30.46,
                                    73.10,
                                    150.60
5-10.1 et seq.                      34.05
5-10.3 et seq.                      34.05
5-11-10                             34.13
5-14-1.5                            155.025,
                                    155.050
5-14-1.5-6.1                        35.08
5-14-3-1 et seq.                    35.04
5-22                                34.10
5-22-9                              30.42
5-22-10                             30.43
6-1.1-12.1                          33.24
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.                33.20
6-1.1-12.1-1                        33.23
6-1.1-12.1-2.5                      33.23
6-1.1-12.1-3                        33.23
6-1.1-12.1-4.5                      33.23
6-1.1-41                            33.35
6-3.5-7                             33.02
6-3.6                               33.43
6-3.6-9-17(h)(l)(A)                 34.14
8-1.5-3-8                           53.01
9-1-1                               73.01
9-13-2-118                          70.01
9-13-2-124                          70.01
9-13-2-175                          70.01
9-13-2-196                          70.01
9-18-12                             73.02
13-11-2-40                          155.220
13-11-2-94                          52.15
13-11-2-95                          52.15
13-11-2-96                          52.15
13-11-2-98                          52.15
13-11-2-99                          52.15
14-28-1                             151.44
14-28-1-26                          151.44
15-2.1-6-1 - 15-2.1-6-13 (Repealed) 90.09
15-5-9-14 (Repealed)                90.05
16-41-27-3.5                        155.220
16-41-27-4                          155.220
16-41-27-5                          155.220
22-9-1-4 et seq.                    91.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                    91.01
22-9.5-2-2                          91.02
22-9.5-2-3                          91.02
22-9.5-2-4                          91.02
22-9.5-2-8                          91.02
22-9.5-2-9                          91.02
22-9.5-2-10 (Repealed)              91.02
22-9.5-2-10(b) (Repealed)           91.02
22-9.5-2-10(c) (Repealed)           91.02
22-9.5-2-11                         91.02
22-9.5-2-13                         91.02
22-9.5-3                            91.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                    91.09
22-9.5-4-8                          91.10
22-9.5-5                            91.02
22-9.5-5-1                          91.03
22-9.5-6                            91.02,
                                    91.10
22-12                               150.40
22-12-1-4                           150.03
22-12-1-5                           150.03
22-12-1-7                           150.03
22-12-1-14                          150.03
22-12-1-16                          150.03
22-12-1-17                          150.03
22-12-1-18                          150.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)                   150.51
22-12-1-24                          150.03
22-12-1-26                          150.03
22-12-7                             150.05
22-13                               150.40
22-13-2-3(b)                        150.50
22-13-2-6                           150.04
22-13-2-7                           150.40
22-13-2-7(b)                        150.50
22-13-2-9                           150.04
22-13-2-11                          150.05
22-14                               150.40
22-15                               150.40
22-15-3                             150.16
22-15-4                             150.04
26-2-7-5                            33.03
32-25-2-9                           150.03
32-30-6                             154.04
32-30-7                             154.04
32-30-8                             150.60,
                                    154.04
33-6-3-1 et seq.                    36.01
33-6-3-1(d)                         36.03
34-4-30-1                           33.03
34-4-32-4                           70.99
34-4-32-4(h)                        71.99
34-19-3-5                           150.60
35-44-1-3                           34.10
35-46-3-1 - 35-46-3-12              90.09
35-48-4                             150.60
36-1-3                              33.03
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                     10.99,
                                    71.99
36-1-5-3                            10.01
36-1-5-4                            150.50,
                                    150.51
36-1-6                              154.04
36-1-6-4                            150.38
36-1-6-9                            150.40
36-1-12                             34.10
36-1-20.2                           34.09
36-1-21                             34.10
36-2-4-8                            30.27
36-2-14-22.3                        34.09
36-4-8                              34.13
36-5-2-4.2                          30.01
36-5-2-8                            30.23
36-5-2-9.6                          30.17
36-5-2-9.8                          30.17
36-5-2-10                           30.23
                                    151.01,
36-7-4                              155.002,
                                    155.003
36-7-4-200 et seq.                  32.20,
                                    155.136
36-7-4-205                          32.20,
                                    155.077
36-7-4-207                          32.20
36-7-4-207(b)                       155.016
36-7-4-212                          155.016
36-7-4-216                          155.016
36-7-4-401                          155.017
36-7-4-402                          155.017
36-7-4-405                          155.017
36-7-4-500                          155.137
36-7-4-506                          155.220
36-7-4-607                          155.136
36-7-4-608                          155.136
36-7-4-610                          155.136
36-7-4-701(e)                       155.220
36-7-4-702(c)                       155.209
36-7-4-705                          155.206
36-7-4-706                          155.205
36-7-4-708                          155.205
36-7-4-902(a)                       155.041
36-7-4-902(d)                       155.137
36-7-4-905                          155.041
36-7-4-916                          155.042
36-7-4-918.1                        155.042
36-7-4-918.2                        155.042,
                                    155.137
36-7-4-918.4                        155.137
36-7-4-918.5                        155.137
36-7-4-921                          155.205
36-7-4-1015(a)                      155.017,
                                    155.042
36-7-4-1015(c)                      155.017,
                                    155.042
36-7-4-1400                         155.220
36-7-4-1403                         155.220
36-7-4-1500                         155.220
36-7-4-1503                         155.220
36-7-4-1508                         155.220
36-7-4-1512                         155.136
36-7-9                              152.01,
                                    154.04
36-7-9-2                            154.02
36-7-9-3                            152.01
36-7-10.1-4                         92.28
36-7-14                             32.45
36-7-36                             154.01,
                                    154.03
36-7-36-1 - 36-7-36-6               154.02
36-7-36-7                           154.01,
                                    154.03
36-7-36-7(2)                        154.05
36-7-36-8                           154.04
36-7-36-9                           154.05
36-7-36-10                          154.06
36-8-10-5                           34.09
36-8-10.5-6                         32.66
36-8-12                             32.67
36-8-17                             150.26
36-9-15.5                           33.35
36-9-23-34                          51.40
36-9-30-21                          52.15,
                                    52.17
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      8-8-77      T.S.O. III
—      11- -78     T.S.O. III
1983-1   2-28-83     T.S.O. II
1989-3   10-19-89    T.S.O. IV
1989-4   10-19-89    T.S.O. IV
1991-3   8-5-91      31.01
1992-6   - -92       34.02
—      9-22-93     35.01 -
                     35.08
1996-2   8-21-96     34.04
1997-4   5-19-97     34.05
2000-1   1-19-00     34.05
2000-3   4-4-00      34.04
2000-4   4-18-00     34.05
2003-02  5-20-03     33.02
2003-03  5-20-03     33.02
2004-05  7-6-04      33.35
2005-01  2-1-05      33.02
2006-08  9-19-06     32.10
2007-4   5-1-07      T.S.O. II
—      —         33.02
2008-02  1-22-08     33.02
2008-03  8-19-08     T.S.O. III
2009-03  3-3-09      T.S.O. II
2010-03  6-22-10     T.S.O. II
2013-05  6-4-13      33.39
2013-06  6-4-13      33.40
2015-03  8-18-15     T.S.O. II
2016-04  7-5-16      34.13
2016-05  7-19-16     T.S.O. IV
2017-02  7-18-17     T.S.O. IV
2017-03  7-18-17     T.S.O. IV
                     155.069,
                     155.070,
2017-04  8-1-17      155.072,
                     155.073,
                     155.096,
                     155.220
2017-06  12-19-17    33.43
2019-01  2-5-19      155.069,
                     155.220
2019-02  7-16-19     33.02
2019-05  11-6-19     T.S.O. IV
2020-01  6-16-20     T.S.O. IV
2020-03  8-4-20      T.S.O. IV
2021-07  4-27-21     30.27
2021-08A 9-7-21      T.S.O. II
2021-10  11-16-21    T.S.O. II
2022-01  1-18-22     T.S.O. II
2022-03  4-5-22   T.S.O. IV
2023-01  2-7-23      155.103
2023-02  4-24-23     155.071,
                     155.072
2023-03  6-6-23      155.069
2023-04  8-1-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-05  8-1-23      T.S.O. IV
2024-04  3-5-24      155.048,
                     155.069
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1946-1   4-2-46      113.01 -
                     113.03
1967-6   11-14-67    110.01
1969-7   10-14-69    T.S.O. I
                     70.01,
1970-1   3- -70      71.01,
                     71.03
1974-1   7-22-74     T.S.O. I
—      2-24-75     111.01
—      4-14-75     T.S.O. I
—      8- -78      T.S.O. I
1980-6   11-24-80    91.01 -
                     91.10
1983-5   7-11-83     130.02
1984-2   5-14-84     T.S.O. V
1984-6   8-27-84     33.20 -
                     33.26
1984-7   9-24-84     T.S.O. V
1985-2   - -         T.S.O. II
                     51.01,
1986-2   5-12-86     51.40 -
                     51.45
                     51.01 -
                     51.09,
1986-3   5-12-86     51.20 -
                     51.28,
                     51.99
1987-5   11-2-87     33.03
1989-5   4-24-89     T.S.O. II
                     52.01,
1989-4   10-2-89     52.15 -
                     52.18
1990-7   7-16-90     33.01
                     70.01,
                     70.02,
1991-2   5-8-91      70.99,
                     71.01,
                     71.03
1991-4   5-20-91     70.03,
                     70.99
1991-6   10-21-91    53.01
1991-7   10-21-91    T.S.O. II
1991-8   12-2-91     112.01 -
                     112.05
1992-7   12-9-92     91.01 -
                     91.10
1993-1   2-16-93     30.01
                     51.01 -
                     51.09,
1994-1   2-10-94     51.20 -
                     51.28,
                     51.99
1994-5   12-14-94    50.01
1995-1   8-2-95      91.01 -
                     91.10
1996-2   8-21-96     33.02
1996-4   10-2-96     92.02,
                     92.03
1997-1   1-8-97      30.15 -
                     30.26
1997-2   4-7-97      32.20
1997-4   4-21-97     33.02
                     93.01 -
1997-5   5-5-97      93.06,
                     93.99
1997-6   5-5-97      90.01 -
                     90.10
1997-9   9-15-97     94.01
1998-1   3-2-98      30.18
                     71.01,
1998-2   5-6-98      71.03,
                     Ch. 72
1998-3   5-6-98      36.01 -
                     36.07
1998-4   - -98       71.99
                     52.01,
1998-6   7-15-98     52.15 -
                     52.18
1998-7   8-19-98     152.01,
                     152.02
1999-6   1-27-99     Adopting Ordinance
2000-1   5-3-00      33.03
2000-2   7-18-00     130.03
2000-3   8-1-00      130.04
2000-4   12-19-00    Ch. 72, Sch. II
2001-1   3-26-01     32.30 -
                     32.32
2001-1A  1-16-01     T.S.O. V
2001-2   1-16-01     T.S.O. II
2001-3   2-6-01      51.40
2001-5   11-20-01    34.06
2001-7   11-20-01    T.S.O. V
2002-1   3-19-02     92.20 -
                     92.30
                     92.02 -
2002-2   3-19-02     92.04,
                     92.06 -
                     92.10
2002-03  7-2-02      53.03
2002-04  7-2-02      53.02
2002-05  7-30-02     33.35
2002-05A 10-15-02    34.07
2003-03  5-6-03      153.01 -
                     153.04
                     95.01 -
2003-04  10-21-03    95.10,
                     95.99
2004-04  5-12-04     53.01
2004-05  8-24-04     33.36
2004-07  9-7-04      Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     92.02 -
2005-01  2-1-05      92.04,
                     92.06 -
                     92.10
2005-02  2-1-05      92.20 -
                     92.30
                     150.01 -
                     150.07,
                     150.15 -
                     150.18,
2005-04  8-23-05     150.25,
                     150.26,
                     150.35 -
                     150.40,
                     150.50,
                     150.51
2006-01  2-7-06      92.02 -
                     92.10
2007-01  1-17-07     33.37
2007-02  6-5-07      52.15
2007-5   9-4-07      153.01
2008-03  3-18-08     33.38
                     51.35,
2008-04  3-18-08     51.36,
                     51.99
2008-05  10-7-08     153.01 -
                     153.04
2009-01  6-16-09     70.04,
                     70.99
2009-02  10-20-09    130.05
                     50.10 -
2010-01  1-5-10      50.15,
                     Ch. 50, App.
2010-02  3-16-10     150.16
2010-03  4-20-10     T.S.O. II
2010-04  5-11-10     51.40
2010-05  9-21-10     T.S.O. II
                     52.02,
2010-06  10-19-10    52.03,
                     71.04,
                     71.99
2011-01  4-19-11     33.07
2011-02  5-5-11      33.06
2011-03  5-17-11     32.45 -
                     32.49
2011-06  9-6-11      53.01
2011-07  9-6-11      51.40
2011-08  10-4-11     T.S.O. V
2012-03  2-21-12     34.08
2012-04  2-21-12     52.15
2012-06  5-7-12      154.01 -
                     154.06
—      6-19-12     154.01 -
                     154.06
2012-07  6-19-12     34.09
2012-08  6-19-12     34.10
2012-09  6-5-12      T.S.O. V
2012-10  7-3-12      92.23
2012-12  9-4-12      50.16
2012-13  9-18-12     90.02
2012-14  12-4-12     91.01 -
                     91.10
2013-03  6-4-13      33.04
2013-04  6-4-13      33.05
                     73.01 -
2013-05  8-20-13     73.16,
                     73.99
                     96.01 -
2013-06  9-17-13     96.12,
                     96.99
2013-07  11-19-13    53.01
                     131.01 -
2013-08  10-15-13    131.06,
                     131.99
                     74.01,
2013-09  10-15-13    74.02,
                     74.99
2013-10  10-15-13    70.04,
                     70.99
2013-12  11-5-13     70.04,
                     70.99
2014-01  1-21-14     37.01,
                     37.02
2014-03  3-18-14     51.01,
                     51.04
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
                     151.27,
2014-04  3-18-14     151.40 -
                     151.47,
                     151.60 -
                     151.66,
                     151.99
2014-06  4-1-14      Ch. 75, Sch. I
2014-07  4-15-14     70.05,
                     70.99
2014-08  5-7-14      70.04
2014-09  5-7-14      74.03,
                     74.99
2014-10  5-7-14      Ch. 75, Sch. I
2014-11  5-7-14      131.07,
                     131.99
2014-12  5-7-14      33.41
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
                     151.27,
2014-14  5-7-14      151.40 -
                     151.47,
                     151.60 -
                     151.66,
                     151.99
2014-16  10-7-14     51.40
2014-17  11-18-14    Ch. 75, Sch. I
2014-21  12-16-14    51.40
2015-01  2-17-15     51.41
2015-02  3-9-15      T.S.O. II
2015-03  4-21-15     90.05,
                     90.10
2015-04  5-7-15      71.05,
                     Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     96.01,
2015-05  4-21-15     96.02,
                     96.13
                     92.23,
2015-06  4-21-15     92.25,
                     92.26
2015-07  5-7-15      70.04
2015-08  5-7-15      92.05
2015-10  8-3-15      92.03,
                     92.23
2015-12  9-1-15      96.14
2016-01  2-2-16      90.01,
                     90.04
2016-02  3-15-16     130.06
2016-03  5-17-16     90.02
2016-05  9-20-16     53.04
2016-06  9-20-16     34.12
2016-07  12-6-16     34.13
2017-01  3-7-17      34.11
2017-03  5-2-17      93.03
2017-05  6-20-17     33.42
                     150.08,
2017-06  7-18-17     150.09,
                     150.98,
                     150.99
2017-07  9-19-17     32.65 -
                     32.75
2018-03  7-3-18      150.60
                     30.40 -
2018-06  12-27-18    30.43,
                     30.45 -
                     30.49
2018-07  12-27-18    34.15
2019-01  2-19-19     113.02,
                     113.03
2019-02  5-8-19      53.01
2019-03  7-16-19     50.01,
                     50.15
2019-04  3-19-19     33.44
2019-06  6-4-19      130.07
2020-01  3-3-20      31.01 -
                     31.05
2020-05  4-21-20     33.08
2020-09  10-6-20     T.S.O. II
2020-12  12-1-20     33.08
2021-01  2-9-21      53.05
2021-06  5-11-21     34.16
2021-09  7-6-21      33.09
2021-13  9-7-21      Ch. 72, Sch. II
2023-01  2-7-23      155.103
2023-02  4-24-23     155.071,
                     155.072
2023-03  6-6-23      155.069
2024-04  3-5-24      155.048,
                     155.069
                     30.40 -
2022-03  3-1-22      30.43,
                     30.45 -
                     30.50
                     30.40 -
2022-05  4-19-22     30.43,
                     30.45 -
                     30.50
                     30.40 -
2022-08  7-19-22     30.43,
                     30.45 -
                     30.50
2022-10  7-19-22     53.01
                     50.01,
2022-14B 12-6-22     50.10 -
                     50.16
2022-15  12-20-22    33.45
2022-16  12-20-22    96.15,
                     96.99
                     50.01,
2023-01  1-30-23     50.10 -
                     50.16
2023-03  3-7-23      92.02
                     30.40 -
2023-04  4-4-23      30.43,
                     30.45 -
                     30.50
2023-07  10-17-23    Ch. 72, Sch. II
2023-09  11-8-23     30.40 -
                     30.50
                    
 
 
